ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] First of all, I would like to inform the House that the topical and urgent debate is not going to take place today. More specifically, in today's bulletin there were sixteen topical questions, one of which will not be discussed for reasons which I am referring to directly. The second question under number 1124/20-2-2018 of the New Democracy MP, Nikis Kerameos, to the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Inspection of violence and lawlessness in higher institutions", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister responsible. The first under number 1111/20-2-2018, the first question of the Dodecanese MP for the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Dimitrios Gakis, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Measures for the dental care of children with disabilities in the island" will not be discussed due to an impediment by Deputy Minister Pavlos Polakis, who will be outside Athens. The second under number 1123/20-2-2018, the first-round question of Attica MP Georgiou Vlachos to the Minister of Health, on the application of claw back to all contracted and non-manufacturers, importers, distributors/suppliers of medical devices, will not be discussed as a result of an impediment of the Minister responsible. The first under number 1113/20-2-2018 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Triantafylides, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Pediatric Hospital in Western Thessaloniki", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister responsible. The ninth under number 1007/6-2-2018 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Health, concerning the problems of staff shortages, building infrastructure and equipment at the Hospital of St. Nicholas Lassithi, it will not be discussed because of an impediment from the Minister responsible. The third, with number 1085/13-2-2018, top-circuit question of the Members of Parliament of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Without provision for the protection of the first residence, the circular for electronic auctions from 1-5-2018", will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Papanatsiou. The fourth question under number 1116/20-2-2018, first question by the Member of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Stavros Tassos, concerning measures for the orderly functioning of the Centre for the Health of Mytilini, will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the relevant Minister of Health Mr. Andreas Xanthi, who will be at the Peloponnese Development Conference. The eighth under number 1000/6-2-2018, a topical question by PASOK MP - DIMAR Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "When will a national action plan against drugs finally be drawn up and adopted?", will it not be debated as a result of an impediment by the Minister of Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthos, who will be at the Peloponnese Development Conference. The third, with number 1105/16-2-2018, is a topical question by the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odyssey Constantinople to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Dangerous developments regarding the sale of EUGA "NATIONAL" will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance, Mr.Euklidis Tsakalotou. Cause: unsuccessful liabilities. The fourth under number 1112/20-2-2018 topical question by the Member of Parliament Xanthi of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Gregorios Stoyannidis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Respecting the licensed number of jobs in casinos", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance Mr.Euklidis Tsakalotou. Cause: unsuccessful liabilities. The sixth question under number 1005/6-2-2018 (Second Chamber of Deputies II) of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "To be paid to the former employees of ATE all that they are due", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance, Euklidis Tsakalotos. Cause: unsuccessful liabilities. The seventh question under number 976/5-2-2018 (Second Chamber of Deputies I) of Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Who is the exact balance of the bank account of Law No.128/1975?" will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance, Euklidis Tsakalotou. Cause: unsuccessful liabilities. Question No 2290/28-12/2017 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "To renew the concession of use to the Ministry of Justice, in order to proceed with the maintenance and improvement of the existing judiciary of Heraklion (Court of First Instance/Privacy building)", will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister of Finance Mr.Eklidis Tsakalotou. Cause: unsuccessful liabilities. The fifth, under number 998/6-2-2018, topical question by MP Fthiotis of New Democracy, Christos Stakouras to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "An overview of general government expenditure, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Juliarakis. Also, the tenth under number 948/30-1-2018, the topical question of the second cycle of the New Democracy MP, Christos Stagiras, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: “Enlargement and completion of the process of repayment of public debts to private individuals”, will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Juliarakis. Finally, the fifth question under number 1108/20-2-2018, the first question of the Athens Parliamentary II of the Independent Greeks Mr.Athanasios Papachristopoulos to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject: "The death of a 20-year-old prisoner in Larissa" will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister responsible. Cause: the inability to attend as a result of a protest outside the Ministry. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being informed about the history of the building and toured in the premises of the Greek Parliament, thirty-nine students and students and two attendants of teachers from the 7th Chalkida Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: "Association of the University of Western Attica and other provisions". The Conference of Presidents decided by majority vote at its meeting on 22 February 2018 to discuss the draft law at a meeting, uniform in principle, on articles and amendments. I would like to say from the outset that there will be, as the Minister told me, any legislative improvements. Once they are ready, they will be submitted and distributed to the House. I have asked him, in addition to the ministerial amendments, because there is a great deal of parliamentary amendments, when he sees them, when he takes the floor, to inform the House of what they are accepting and what they are not, so that Members may know, when they are put in place to support what they are signing. I would like to remind you that electronic recording is not working. So any colleague who wants to sign can do it by raising his hand. When the first speaker comes up in Stepma, then you can register and we will see at the end how many colleagues will be registered. Before I ask for the procedure to be approved, who wants the floor on a point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u2	I, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u3	Mr. Vlavo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, today it was planned to discuss a timely question to the Ministry of Health and specifically to the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr Polakis. For once, it is postponed and we do not know when it will be discussed. It's a month and a half now that they're bringing me every Monday and Friday. They're calling me that it's deferred. Mr. Paulakis finds time, from what I can see, to come out everywhere. Finally, to ask the Bureau of Parliament to find time to come to Parliament's parliamentary scrutiny. It's basic respect. I don't know how else to say it. Today I have low tons, but I do not know whether I will have the same approach in future.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u5	The fair protest is being recorded, but we have now left the topical and urgent questions. We are now talking about legislative work. However, you are not wrong and not just for that Minister. There are other ministers who are consistent and others who are not. Is there a point of order now, ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u6	The House unanimously agreed on the proposed procedure. We will start with the majority rapporteur from SYRIZA, who is Mr. Skouricos. Ladies and gentlemen, until Mrs Kerameos comes down from the Step, you will be able to sign up either by raising your hand or by coming to the Bureau and state your wish. Cards aren't working. So before we see how many colleagues will be present, I cannot tell you how much time the sitting will be closed. After two, three hours we will know up - down, when the debate will end today. It'll finally pass in front of you, an associate of the Seed and write your names, so that there's no mistake. So sit down in your seats and the clerk will pass through all the seats to sign up. Mr. Darkdog, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the bill establishing the University of Western Attica and other provisions. A new university is founded in the downgraded areas of the metropolitan area of Attica, including seven municipalities in the West Attica, five regional unit of Piraeus and four multi-pathetic districts of West Attica, that region where unarmedly stacked factories, garbage, solvents in previous years, and recently experienced tragedies in Mandra and New Peramos. All these regions will have their own university. It'll be the country's third largest. They're congratulating the Athens and Piraeus TEIs. Really, how did this new university come up? Just to satisfy the western districts? To unify or we can weld the two TEIs? Of course not. It came out after a serious study and under scientific, academic and research criteria. The conclusions of the national and social dialogue on education held by the government were a decisive role. This dialogue was swept through by some, some deceived and some tried to ban it. Under Article 1 of this draft law, the University of Western Attica is therefore established as a Public Law Legal Officer, fully self-government, in accordance with Article 16 of the Constitution and Article 1(2) of Law 4485/2017, which is based in Aigaleo. They merge, as we said, at this TEI of Athens and Piraeus. The cognitive fields covered by the new university are: Social, administrative and economic sciences with five sections, engineering sciences with eight sections, food sciences with two sections, health and welfare sciences with seven sections, and finally artistic studies with four sections. Article 3 defines the management bodies of the University, where, until the institution has been elected, the institution shall be governed by an administrative committee, which shall have powers of the Senate and shall be constituted by a decision of the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs. Here are the dates of commencement and expiry of the terms of office of the provisional organs. Article 4 lays down matters of staff of all kinds. Under Article 5, it is determined that the already registered students of the two TEIs are self-evidently integrated into the departments of the University of Western Attica. Article 6 defines the establishment and functioning of a judiciary of the Law Board of State at the new university, while Articles 14 and 15 establish judicial offices of the Law Council of State at the University of Peloponnese and Western Macedonia. In the second chapter of the bill under discussion, and in Article 8 a great arrangement is introduced. Vocational training centres are established. These are two-year vocational training programmes operating within higher education institutions and being an academic unit of these institutions. ESA graduates will attend there, who, beyond their highest level of training, will obtain a certified European standard degree. The draft law also defines the qualifications for the election of members of the LAG, as well as the transition of the already staffed teachers to all steps of the IEK merged at the new university. It settles issues relating to service recognition and even issues relating to specific research funds accounts. Article 12 promotes the direct evaluation of existing research institutes in order to provide for the abolition or absorption of those who do not comply with the statutory criteria. Under Article 13, TEIs are being rescued in order to close, according to New Democracy's False Memory Plan, transferred to other schools. These are parts of Serres, Kavala, Kastoria, Larissa, three parts of the TEI Patras and one of Kalamata. An important repository of a diploma, introduced by Article 16, is the certification of the authenticity of academic qualifications awarded by the higher education institutions and the corresponding certificates of the Interdisciplinary Organisation for the Recognition of Academic and Information Security, the IATAP, by purely electronic means and, of course, by a system that is perfectly safe. With Article 17, an important measure shall be taken with a positive social sign. In the difficult times that our country is going through, as far as the financial situation of families is concerned, it is possible to relocate to brothers in different cities, in order to carry out their studies in the same city. This provision is designed to facilitate the exercise of the individual right to higher education as enshrined in Article 16 of the Constitution. It is of paramount importance that the Committees on Ethics and Ethics should be set up to set up and operate in each higher education institution. They will be intended to provide a sound and ethical guarantee of the reliability of the research projects carried out at higher education establishments and research bodies. With respect to human dignity, the environment and other factors the state provides, instead of running behind the problems that usually arise. The composition, term of office, function and responsibilities of these committees shall be specified in detail. This bill, however, also regulates issues relating to primary and secondary education. First of all, there are issues relating to the pan-Hellenic examinations. In particular, for holders of a professional high school degree acquired in accordance with the provisions of Law 3475/2006, the special number of posts is increased in view of the absorption of the Athens and Piraeus TEIs and following the establishment of the University of Western Attica. It is also laid down for PES graduates that all candidates are dealt with in four courses, two of which are general education and the other two specialities. Article 34 amends the a.d.46/2016 for the evaluation of the students and students of the general high school in the preparation of creative work in the general high school and the large theme of the number of exams. The time devoted to the examination procedures is limited, while the time devoted to teaching is increased. With Article 30, the National Coordinating Body is set up as an advisory body for apprenticeship issues. Article 31 introduces the upgrading and extension of the operation of prison schools. The creation of school units in all detention stores and Greek language courses is an important care for people who, after serving their sentences, want to return to society and not to prison again. The already operating schools have proved this with their work. Article 32 provides for candidates from the Lesvos, Chios, Oinoussa and Fish Islands who participated in the school year 2016-2017, a specific percentage in addition to the number of participants in the higher military training institutions, senior military schools of officers, police and firehouse schools, as well as the Academy of the Commercial Navy. Also under Law 4485/2017, a special percentage was provided for the candidates of the qualified areas in addition to the number of participants in schools, departments, introductory directions of universities, higher church academies and ASPATE, the High School of Education and Technology for the academic year 2017-2018. The Minister's amendment will also be followed for the students in the West Attica recently affected region, namely the students in Mandra and Nea Peramos in West Attica. With particular sensitivity to infancy education, the compulsory schooling of infants aged four to six years in kindergarten is gradually introduced, establishing compulsory fourteen-year-old education, as laid down in Article 33 of the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, the establishment of the University of West Attica has been examined and used as tools, all the data relating solely to its case. Specificities, terms, conditions, the diversity of higher education, as well as individual details, have contributed to propose the establishment of this university institution. Discussions are taking place throughout the country between universities and TEI, taking into account their own data and particular features. A comprehensive debate was held on this draft law and the views of the bodies were taken seriously. The foundations have been laid - I believe - for linking academicity to development, while regional planning has been a key factor in the establishment of the university. Many will benefit from the establishment and operation of the new university, which will be a pole for the development of the region. The economy of scale, the development and optimisation of infrastructure available to the state in Western Attica and human resources, and characteristics such as innovation, efficiency and sustainability will give - I am sure - a competitive university, as far as the country's university map is concerned, but also internationally, it will be a first-line higher education institution at scientific, research and academic level. So I urge you to vote in favour of this draft law establishing the University of West Attica, which we all expect will contribute positively to the upgrading of university studies in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u8	MEP George Koumoutsakos asks for permission from abroad for a trip to the Department of Foreign Affairs of the New Democracy on 27 February and 28 February 2018. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u9	The House therefore approved the requested permission. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Niki Kerameos, has the floor. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, for the New Democracy, the strengthening of technological education at all levels is at the core of its government's education programme. The ultimate aim is for technological education to become a conscious choice and not a solution to the need for young people. The linking of higher education to the production process, the fight against youth unemployment, which climbs up to unthinkable rates close to 50%, and the reversal of the exponentially increasing 'brain-drain', should be national objectives and the strengthening of technological education is a key instrument for achieving them. At its great beginning, the principle of strengthening technological education, strengthening the so-called HEIs, your idea, Minister, is correct. Unfortunately, however, in this draft law establishing the University of Western Attica, many points have been identified, which we have already noted with great urgency at the meetings of the Committee on Morphic Affairs which preceded them, which demonstrates that to some extent, import arrangements are proposals for fragmentation, without vision, without a plan, without transparency, without objectivity, aiming primarily at micro-policy. Firstly, the bill reserves unfavourable consequences for graduates in high school and I am explaining. In the two abolished TEIs, TEIs of Athens and TEI of Piraeus, hundreds of students entered each year from professional high school, many of whom will lose the opportunity to study. The students of the current second and third grades of professional high school, who were to claim their admission to the TEI of Athens or Piraeus, had many chances of access. Why? Because there's a 20% access rate for PSA students. Now these students will have 5% access rate. You admitted it, Mr Baxvanakis, that the available places in higher education for the graduates of the PES of Attica will be less than after the establishment of the University of West Attica. You said that places are being created elsewhere, in other regions or other specialities, but that does not ease the problem for children who are currently in the Attica PCA and whose programming is being promptly reversed. Indicative of your indifference to the effects of this regulation on vocational education is that you have not agreed to call on the Committee on Education and Training to invite the representatives of the officials of technical education. You didn't want to hear the teachers. You don't want to hear us. At least, listen, Mr Ministers, the very students who are currently studying at PPAs. They sent to all the members of the Parliament's Committee on Educational Affairs a letter saying: 'Some changes surprise us unpleasantly in the middle of the school year. Since there will be no TEI in Attica, many students and many students will be forced to study at the province's TEI if the family can financially support them or be forced to abandon the dream for the continuation of their studies." I'm filing the letter in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Niki Kerameos, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It is, of course, important that you look positively at the New Democracy's proposal to increase the import rate of this year's ESDP graduates into the new institution. We're waiting, Minister, to see the new arrangement. Secondly, there is no reference to the bill to the professional rights of the graduates of the new institution. If, Ministers, you really cared about technological education, your first concern would be to regulate the professional rights of these students. In a few weeks the students of the Third High School will be invited to complete their computer and will be invited to choose between many Foundations, including the University of Western Attica. But on what criteria, Minister, would they choose it if they do not yet know what professional rights they will have, graduating from this university? And what did you tell us in committee? That you're going to settle the matter. Future promises once again! The problem is even greater because it is currently planned to set up departments with four-year courses, which will provide the same or similar titles with existing university departments of five years' duration. You realise, Mr Ministers, that the existence of sections of the same name and different length of study will create confusion and differences in the qualifications of graduates claiming the same professional rights. Incidentally, Minister, in accordance with Article 19(10), the first course of study is to monitor programmes of study, as a minimum, in the case of two forty credits. Have you considered the graduates of the TEI before 2007 who received fewer credits under the current arrangement? Furthermore, Minister, when it comes to matching new schools and departments, and therefore also professional rights, with the international educational reality, you told the committee that the new departments - and here I shall refer to what you said - are in line with the corresponding international sections. I told you in committee that there are international reactions to match these new sections with the international educational reality and you doubted it. I therefore give an example, Mr Minister, a letter from the International Federation of Biomedical Laboratories Science, which warns you of the dangers that arise from the failure to match parts with international practices. [[At this point, the Member, Niki Kerameos, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thirdly, there was no transparent procedure with clear academic criteria for the choice of institutions, the mergers of departments, for the creation of guidelines. We have heard about congress decisions, chamber resolutions, and eminent professors' articles. But we have heard nothing, Minister, about strictly predetermined academic criteria. Successive decisions as demonstrated in the section statements, which were not self-determination, but also in the case of SAPATE, which you said would concern you in future. Another indicative example. How did you decide that visitors of health should be in a separate department than health nurses? Unlimited answers and future promises and clear choices to a large extent motivated by the pressures and interests of a syndicate. Although you have submitted two feasibility and viability studies for this project, neither of them, Mr Ministers, tell us fundamentally what the benefits expected from the new university are, in relation to the benefits that we have already seen from two exceptional institutions, from the two TEIs that are being abolished. Fourthly, the absence of overall planning for the reform of the map of higher education in the country. I'll just ask you, Minister. Do you have a picture of the country's academic map as it is today and as you want to transform it? Is your policy on higher technology education more than dismantling the TEI and renamed them to universities? If you have a policy, we expect you to reveal it to us today. Because both the establishment of the University of West Attica, which is currently being attempted, and the announcement of the next projects, prove that the process is being attempted as a case by case and targeting is micropolitical, with a view to serving local interests. But also for the reform of the other pillar of higher education you follow the same practice. I shall mention, for example, your announcements of the establishment of the fourth legal school in the country, in whichever region it is established. It does not matter which region will be established. Without design and aiming, you are also using tertiary education as a lever for customer service. Instead of worrying you, Minister, the fact that Greece brings together the majority of unemployed graduates in the OECD countries, which climbs up to 20%, instead of focusing on the reversal of Brain Drain, instead of seeking the systematic and effective connection of education and research with the productive process, you are exhausted in declaratory censorships, with the sole aim of obtaining a micropolitical benefit of a local nature. Turns out, of course, to what I'm saying, your State Secretary, Mr. Baxvanakis, who, on 11 February 2018, confessed honestly, saying, "in many cases, it is harder to find a technician than to find a lawyer or a graduate in higher education. This is a Greek originality". Exactly, gentlemen. It is a Greek originality but it is also a lack of responsibility to announce the creation of new schools, whose graduates face a serious unemployment problem. Fifth. You bypassed in the whole process the independent authority that should have a leading role in it, the Independent Quality Assurance and Certification Authority in Higher Education. The IPPP should have a primary role in the business process. And this is something that you too admit, since by your law of 2017, the PPP and the ESKAID are required for the establishment, merger, partition, rename and repeal of PIS. You have not kept it in relation to the IPD nor in relation to the ESRB. Six. The University of West Attica will start without the study programs being certified. Such is your rush to be able to satisfy your micropolitical pursuits! Although you have said, Minister, again and again in committee, how important you are giving the new curriculum, it is rather a pretext for this to be interesting because, as the HRP says, there is neither time nor money to certify these programmes. Seventh. Some of the arrangements contained in the bill are at risk of being classified as unconstitutional. And that's not just us. The Scientific Service of the Parliament itself says so. For example, with regard to Article 19(5), which permits the conversion of university sector institutions into establishments in the field of technology. I present the report from the Scientific Agency in the Minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Nikos Kerameos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It will not, of course, be the first time that the legislation of the Ministry of Education in SYRIZA - ANEL will be judged unconstitutional. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill does not only contain arrangements for the University of Western Attica. It also includes a number of other arrangements, which run a large part of the range of education process and research. I shall give an example. As far as the two-year vocational training structures set up at universities are concerned, we have listened carefully and do not question your intentions. We see it positively. However, you have avoided answering the crucial question, which will also judge the success of the project or not. The question is. Where will the resources be found to fund their operation? You mentioned, Mr Baxevanakis, during the meeting that you completed the strategic planning for vocational education and training in 2016. Of course you failed to mention one year's delay. During this period the Ministry had no access to the co-financed funds for vocational education and training. But above all, you have avoided answering the question if the European Commission has agreed to the creation of the new structure, which was not in the strategic framework of 2016. The brothers' transcripts. It is true that this regulation treats a serious difficulty faced by families with two or more children studying in a different city from the place of stay. Unfortunately, this is not the only difficulty faced by families who have children who are studying today. We hope that you will have answers to key questions such as: What criteria will you define the income criteria for applying this provision? Will the upper limit of the Balta Act also apply or will the upper limit of the 15% of the maximum relocations per section be applied? Because, ladies and gentlemen, of course, sensitive social groups must be supported, but institutions must also be able to function. Because otherwise it will be another case of social policy in the vacuum. The gradual introduction of two-year compulsory education: ladies and gentlemen, there are very serious arguments in favour of the introduction of compulsory pre-school education from the four years. There are many questions, however, which remain unanswered. Are there any appropriations for the necessary human resources? Are there the necessary infrastructure? How are you going to regulate the fact that kindergartens operate for the most part less hours than stations and the consequences of this reduced working time for working parents? Likewise the fact that kindergartens have been usually closed since June for the summer, while no stations? Minister, just before I close, I would like to refer to two points which have nothing to do with the legislation itself but with your attitude in the course of the debate. Point one. When you do not want or can not answer the very many questions put to you by the Opposition, and especially the Civic Opposition, you have a key phrase that you use on several occasions. You say: 'The problem is complex' and answers, of course, we are not getting. I urge colleagues and listeners of today's sitting to refer to the Minutes to observe this regular practice. Point two. Always seek to present a picture of absolute consensus. You are seeking to present that all the stakeholders agree with you, that you move your hand - hand and the only bad others are us, the representatives of counter-population. The same happened in the summer when the tertiary education bill was passed. It's the same now. In the summer you said, "So we know there have been severe shocks with the beatings. And what I said is absolutely true. At that time, Minister, I had given you, not one, not two but ten indicative statements of institutions condemning your legislation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will need your tolerance for a minute, Mr President. I'm coming to today's bill. You told us in the Morphic Affairs Committee the other day. I carry your own words: "Whatever you say, no matter what you do, there was a convergence of the bodies that were placed here. There is impressive convergence in the project." Minister, the two main actors who should have a dominant say in this project, namely the Synod of all the regulators of the country and the IPD, the Independent Quality Assurance and Certification Authority, were both negative. The Rector Synod has made no one, but two announcements about the project and they're convicted. It even accuses you that there are no academic criteria in the process. I'll testify to the Minutes and these two communications. [[At this point, the Member, Niki Kerameos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned announcements, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] In other words, the University's teaching and research staff also issued a sentence, which characterises the project - and I quote - as "a government electoral effort, without depth and vision, without dialogue, with fragmentary procedures and with controversial non- academic criteria". I am tabling the relevant communication in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Niki Kerameos, presents for the minutes the communication mentioned above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] Minister, there is no harm in having disagreements. It is not wrong that there should be opposing opinions. You do not have the absolute truth and it will be good not to despise the opinions of others, even if you disagree with them. We, Minister, are today going to go over the great idea, which is in keeping with the substantial strengthening of technological education. It is an excess, in order to send out a clear message in favour of the country's technological education, even though we believe that this great idea is not implemented and is not served by the way you are institutionalizing. The New Democracy will vote in favour of this bill in principle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u11	Thank you. We continue with the special speaker from the Democratic Partnership, Mr Leonida Gregorakos. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, after a noisy and destructive week for the country's political system, we are here. Invite return to normality but do your best to remove the country as much as possible from this normality. Regularity, ladies and gentlemen, it is not the cannibalism with which you face your political opponents, nor your extreme cynicism in the management of the small and great problems of the country and of the economy: "Let them go acquittal, let them prove their innocence!" Your political situation and your election success three years ago was only normal. With the crisis and bankruptcy you were politically shaken, taking advantage of the reasonable reaction, even indignation, of the citizens. We've lived all this outside the House. That's how you feed in you pillistic proclamations and refreshing expectations, you promised the sky with the stars. But you are neither naive nor obscene. The opposite is true. You realize and you know very well what happened and who led us to the rocks. And yet, three years now, you are doing everything you can to reverse reality. You have reached the point where you have invented the most unheard of model, that the memorials have brought the judgment and not the judgment of the memorials. Your choice is not at all random. It has been dictated and dictated by your unspeakable purpose to deal with the natural and moral perpetrators of the crisis. The unbelievable but powerful third government component is the one that you committed and committed the most unholy, unholy transaction. You're sending your political opponents to a pre-request committee. The way you faced the existing NOVARTIS scandal confirms it. The sympathy between you and the third component is making an eye. The self-evident investigation and the state's obligation to reveal all the spectators and unscrupulous sides and punish the guilty ones is a long way from your undoubted government pursuits. The targeting is double, the aim is to incriminate all those who are not subject to your dark and northy plans. It seems now clear that you are uncompromisingly making use of the unfair means used by NOVARTIS, with the sole aim of harming specific political persons. The government's plans are based on its bad argument that her politicians are corrupted and corrupted, and she represents the new and uninfected. Invoking her moral advantage, she resorts to gheebsy methods. The recipe is also known: Say, say, at the end something will be left for everyone. It is easy to understand that an extremely serious case concerning the illegal activities of a company is at risk of being degenerated by dispersed pictorials, speculation, slandering against political persons. However, this despair of political opponents is the refuge of uneducated, short-sighted, hysteroidal, self-sufficient and tiny leaders. Ladies and gentlemen, if we want to discover SYRIZA's true political self, it is enough to see what is going on in education. One day it says one day, the other one says. We change all the time, every day what we said the previous day, what we voted on and bring it back again to assess it again. This is what happens in the economy, in the administration, in the privatizations, in the insurance system, in industrial relations, everywhere. Despite earlier statements made by SYRIZA, everything changes. It accepts without any negotiation, without any counter-proposal, the suggestions of creditors. You didn't go against the lenders anywhere. So we see his memorial mutation in all her magnificence. However, in the field of education which the government does not treat as creditors, it literally follows all its internal-government obsessions, burdening public education with anachronistic views and implementing an extremely anti-educational policy. What should we want to do first? The registrar of excellence? The tight embrace of education with religion? The invocation of the Roman Catholic student movement facing the unprecedented phenomena of violence, lawlessness, vandalism and degeneration in universities? The abolition and degradation of all the reformist and modernisational changes that have been made following persistent efforts over many years and within the crisis? The reintroduction of 'eternal students'? The return of trade union orders to university administration? We've paid for this. You'll pay for that, too. Remember what yet? The trespass of merit? The reappearance of the party rule? Exercise of an educational policy aimed solely at securing political and party benefits, indifferent to the unprecedented deterioration of study? Once again, ladies and gentlemen, the old left was facing education as the ideological mechanism of the urban state, which the conservative forces have sought to impose their sovereignty through it. Today, this government is facing education as an excellence mechanism for customer relations, party dependence and influence. All the acts and actions of the SYRIZA-ANEL co-operation aim only at the party exploitation, the votes and the tradition of education in vain pursuits. There is no more provocative proposal than the government is doing today in the university space. Revealing evidence is the invention of the so-called "institutionalization of TEIs", speaking of the University of Western Attica. In what you are doing today, tell us which schools are upgraded, on what criteria, what is the value and importance of specific cognitive objects that enter under the umbrella of the University of West Attica. What is their correspondence with the real needs? How do previous changes in education respond to the demands of the economy, production and the market? In all these questions there is no serious answer nor can it be found. The only answer is that education has been delivered to the hands of fatal, unreserved and dangerous parties. Their only concern is to transform education into a mechanism for the extraction, deception and marketing of the anguish of young people and their families for their studies. Hence your politics in education will remain as a monument of extreme and ruthless customer logic. Ladies and gentlemen, as much as it bothers you, the story is that PASOK supported and highlighted the importance of technological education in Greece, first of all with the creation of the TEIs, with the resolution of No.1404/1983, and with the continued support for the operation and quality upgrade of them. With Laws 2116/2001 and 3027/2002 there was another effort, to match TEI and ASPATE to the needs and potential of that time, resulting in the institutional integration of the two institutions, the recognition of their degree as the first academic title, in accordance with the Bologna process for the European area of higher education, as well as the integration of technological education into higher education, taking the form it currently has, a higher education with two equal fields, university and technology. However, outsourcing remains the question of the autonomous organisation of doctors with TEIs - we had made our mistakes, here we have to make our self-criticism - as, of course, also the extradition of full professional rights by specialty, according to European practice in specialities that are essentially pending at the TEF and TEI schools, although the corresponding efforts have been made and the relevant initiatives have been taken by the PASOK Government in particular in 2010-2011. Therefore, any attempt to further upgrade TEIs should be made to pursue these policies. With this draft law they merge to one and university two Attica ATEIs, the Piraeus and the Athens TEIs, without including the third institute of technological education or ASPAITE. Everything was done without any study, without any program, without any feasibility or viability study, without a master plan. It is a trick or any merger or university of two ATEIs if we do not discuss a new map of higher education after assessing all the training factors by the Quality Assurance and Certification Authority in Higher Education and after scientific matching and documentation of the needs of the Greek economy. The new economic model must reflect a new productive model of modern economy. It cannot be elements of an educational model that reflects the pathogens of a country that basically went bankrupt in 2010 as a result of the disastrous policies of the previous governments. It is not possible today to share promises to set up new departments in different regions of the country, as was the case in the recent past. These evaluation procedures should not only relate to mergers of ATEs but to a total of regional higher education institutions. These are the problems that will be created by this bill and which this bill entails. They will therefore provide clear solutions for cases of geographical and professional overlaps for graduates. This bill cannot serve micro-party purposes, close the eye to social groups to serve electoral objectives and not to be part of any overall planning. There are still no answers to the draft law on how to avoid the phenomenon of multi-speed teachers or students in the institutions being set up. Democratisation gives weight to technological and university education from secondary education. For this reason, the two-year programmes for graduates of the ESDP should not lead to a new technical demand for HSI qualifications, but to accept the role that each level of education has. Therefore, neither the incorporation of the craftsmen into a top-level nor the burden of the professional high-school, for which we propose that a certified title be awarded with the corresponding European professional rights. Finally, we are proposing to stop the anachronistic separation of technological and university education in the public sector, with regard to wage and development issues SPDs and the EIB and replace them with a step in higher education, of course, on the basis of economic potential and without retroactive payments. The country's going through a hard time. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece has twenty HEIs and along with the Greek Open University - S.A. - and the International University of Greece is twenty-two. TEI's fourteen. In other words, a total of thirty-six higher education institutions and based on the size of the country, and given that we do not welcome foreign students, the number is very large. That's not a question of accepting foreign students. We could support the development of higher university and technological education and the creation of a Greek single higher education area. No distinction between HEIs and HEIs institutions, but the creation of higher higher education institutions, where there will be and there will be departments of technology and university education within the institution itself. Scientific and educational synergies, the dialectical relationship of university and technological education is evident in many cases. Including research centres. The multitude of structures has led to a reduced efficiency and a deterioration in the quality of study and the value of the degree today. Education and research at the theoretical and applied level are no longer distinct actions. Complementarity only has to exist. That's the solution. Higher education that supports and participates in the development of a national regional and local economy, of course, in accordance with the new production model, with an institution per region that we all have to discuss together. Ladies and gentlemen, scientific knowledge is produced in the large developed countries with far-reaching United States of America. The Greek universities must be competitive, so that they can participate in this struggle and be quality bodies of science in our country. Therefore, high-level infrastructure, teaching staff and sufficient funding for research are needed. Our country has no opportunity to provide infrastructure and finance a large number of IANs and even a large number of international IPAs. Teachers can't be consumable. The best minds of Greece, as always, go abroad for postgraduate and academic careers. But many have returned to the country and contributed the maximum to maintain the level of teaching and research, particularly research. That's real, it's real. The Greek universities have too many such achievements to show. With today’s low wages, however, this valuable source has ceased to exist. So, by setting up a lot of HEIs with low funding and not a high-level staff, we are necessarily lowering the bay both in study and in research, regardless of the laudable efforts of those concerned, indeed, by many scientists in Greece. In other words, Mr President-in-Office, your demagogic and iso-people policy continues here too. Inflation of HEI, university inflation, student inflation, all in low funding, low requirements, low flights, low quality and, ultimately, low estimate for life. So remove Greece from the pioneering of science and research. You increase distance from advanced countries. You are approaching your standards, i.e. the former Balkan socialist countries. But that's not all. You are currently demolishing technological education because, of course, this is not an upgrade of the TEIs. Other curriculum programmes require technological education. Teachers are required with different qualifications, with different professional routes than in the university space. Look at what's going on around us today. What is the country with the best and most organized technical education? Germany. Which is the country with the best production of artificial products, machines, etc.Huh? Germany again. Macron, who has come in very fast, is proposing to strengthen technical education as one of the most important reforms for the economic development of France. And what countries have a large number of unemployed graduates of HEIs and a small production base? Egypt, Tunisia, Romania, Venezuela. There, we don't want to look like each other. That's how our ambitions go? If possible. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I'm putting him in it. I'm afraid we'll be even worse if we don't pay attention if we're not all united. We've been split up over the last few years. We've been split more over the last week. You prefer to share false benefits with desperate unemployed, instead of promoting productive employment and production. So you prefer to make medium universities and armies of graduates, instead of dedicating the country's funds to quality education, excellence to genuinely competitive universities geared to production. Ladies and gentlemen, the liberalisation of the institutions and the strengthening of their autonomy must be followed by areas of strengthening the extroversion and internationalisation of the Greek public institutions. Foreign language programmes everywhere in the departments, both undergraduate and postgraduate, for all programmes, if possible. Look at what's going on in Cyprus. The same institutions, in accordance with their financial characteristics and management by the authorities, must decide on their participants, postgraduate programmes, teachers, establishment or dismantling of departments, the qualifications they must have. So liberation in practice with the corresponding social accountability. Greece and the HEIs to become an international educational reference area. We can do it. That must be the question of the Greek state today. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to conclude by saying that it is our responsibility to have access to and the weakest in a system of multi-purpose education and mobility, depending on the gradients, interests and performance. Training for us is a possibility, not an opportunity. And our main concern is to support those who need it most. We call 'the present', then, in the bill. Some of his articles, possibly, could be voted on. We're vertically opposite. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after being informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, 50 students and students and two teachers - their attendants from the Electoral School "Erasmeios Hellenic-German School". The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The reason is the special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Christos Hadjisavvas.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. The truth is that the urgent and urgent procedure covered some negative aspects of legislation and legislation. Where did this bill normally come from, what did we see? We have seen a consultation in a piece of the bill at least, that there should be four committees, that we should say our opinion over and over again, that we convey the complaints that have been made against dozens of different bodies, that we listen to the bodies themselves within the committee and that we should not change anything, that you do not take any notice of them. As far as the establishment of the University of Western Attica is concerned, you say that this action is intended to address the educational, social, cultural and development needs of the country. Of course, this is not something new as legislation. Reinstate with very small amendments an attempt from previous Memorandum governments. Reiterate substantially the "ATHENA" project for which before the 2015 elections when you were still antimony, you said that it was a disaster of education, that it was in favour of private education. But all this has now changed. If you wanted to upgrade the education system for TEIs and TEIs, you could upgrade the TEI curriculum, you could upgrade the infrastructure and workshops. As far as the seat is concerned, I agree that it is one of the most degraded areas and needs to be upgraded. But you should know that in many areas where there are universities and university asylum, the so-called asylum of ideas is an asylum of the state. Predicted ideologies are acts of the Common Criminal Code, such as smuggling, drugs, attacks, beatings. So this does not necessarily mean that the area will automatically be upgraded. In Article 2, which concerns schools and departments, this merger essentially fulfils our Memorandum of Understanding obligation to reduce the number of departments and effectively abolish them. The present Government changes words many times and closure is baptized a merger and potential superiorization of technological education in order to golden the pill. Now, of course, the question arises as to what happens when the evaluation time comes. And the evaluations will not be so positive, since the criteria are purely academic and not political. Then what's gonna happen? We also have to realise that since TEIs have already been renamed to HEIs and are meant to be universities, they do not raise any further renames of them. Also, account should be taken of the misunderstandings and misunderstandings that will exist between graduates of the departments of the University of West Attica from the TEIs and the respective departments of the Kapodistrian University or any multi-technical school. This will also have clear implications for the issue of professional rights. Article 3 defines the management bodies of the University of Schools, Departments and Sectors, while temporary Quaestors and Heads of Departments are responsible for the current Quaestors and Presidents of the Athens and Piraeus TEIs. However, it is also laid down that a decision by the Minister of Education may extend the term of office of the temporary administrative bodies up to two times. So the accident planned before, now goes for a walk. It has already created a problem since the draw, it gave the three of the five seats to representatives of the former TEIs and the institutions started. In Article 4 for staff, most doctors who do not have a doctoral degree fall within the category of lecturers. And when they acquire it, they can ask for their place to be converted into a university lecturer and evolve in the grade of the assistant professor. There is an obsession with this issue. Communications, however, offers everyone an upgrade. Unfortunately, in our society, otherwise the professor or Lecturer TEI will be heard, by the professor or lecturer of the university, even for their assistants. Obviously, it is about the moral reward, not only for the services that they have provided for so many years in the party, for the tables of student classes and for all the others that are known. In Article 5 the enrolled students of the merged TEIs are automatically transferred to the new departments of the University of Western Attica. In other words, the student will have passed to a TEI and with a simple application, without any classifiers he will receive a university degree. However, this development does not apply to graduates, since they will continue to be a TEI graduate and therefore two-speed graduates are being created. I do not understand why, while there is this unification of the Athens and Piraeus TEIs at a University of Western Attica, existing postgraduate students will receive a master's degree in TEIs when there will no longer be a TEI. And I come to Article 6 on the establishment of a court office of the State Legal Council at the University of West Attica. One of the positions is increased and the dean's right to assign the University of West Attica to lawyers or lawyers who do not belong to the judiciary is given to the dean. It should be noted that while expenditure is incurred on the establishment of the Office as well as on Articles 14 and 15, it is not specified in the General Accounting Report because no data were provided by the relevant Ministry. Of course, it refers to a cost of EUR 385 000 per annum when it comes to the full coverage of the positions. It would be interesting to see the cost in detail, as would the cost in case the dean finally prefers another lawyer or other law firm. As regards Article 8 of Chapter II on Vocational Education Centres, OLEME argued that the provision can work positively as long as it is activated in a large number of HEIs and includes a large number of students. Otherwise, it will act negatively for the ESDP graduates. We should consider what this access to higher education means and what implications it will have. If, of course, there is a need for careful consideration of the issue and its adaptation to Greek reality, but this is not guaranteed by this provision. With regard to Article 9 on the qualifications of members of the IGC, while setting some merits, one would say, criteria such as self-support or publications or work in recognized research centres of the national or foreign state, the issue of the landscape blurred and leaving open windows, as the subjective factor comes into play, is added. And when we call a subjective factor for SYRIZA - ANEL government, we know what it means and we've seen them: Friends, Baltas, Readerstopoulou, Zourari, etc. So, we're against it. With regard to Article 12 on Research University Institutes, in recent years, in any case, there has been little funding from the Ministry's funds to these institutes for many reasons. The fact that this provision makes it compulsory for their assessment, it will be good and good to close those who do not comply with the law and those who find themselves in breach or distorted use of financial resources to look for ultimately responsibilities. And I come to Article 17 on the provisions for student relocations. It is an article on which too many e-mails have come to all the members of the committee. This provision creates hopes for families who have children who study in different cities that they are entitled to relocation under specific conditions. It should be extended to families with a child. Many families with the difficult economic situation they are experiencing cannot study a single child. You said you'd do it. When are you going to do it? Also, for the children of Greeks abroad, there were dozens of protest messages about all of this with questions from the press: 'Why didn't you do what you promised, Minister?' or 'when do you do it?'. You also add that the conditions and modalities for the application of the provision will be determined by decision of the Minister, without specifying the time or other. The layout is vacant and simply serves for purely voting reasons, impropering hundreds of families. There should be permanent and stable translation arrangements on this issue, so that a family can also make planning for their children's studies and studies. For the single rate of education it could be in complete agreement with Article 16 on the study declaration certificate, where by entering that number into a field, you could ask at any time for any training certificate, because continuous numbers and personal data are required. In Article 19 we had the withdrawal of paragraph 1, not because some bodies asked you, not because you said you were wrong, but because Mr. Friends asked you to do so. In fact, while reading from the Minutes, there are heavy expressions in it, such as the "Mr. Minister, with this bill you have happy to set up a large university, but unfortunately you are also founding another university, the first private university". As far as paragraph 5 is concerned, I do not understand this obsession and why the extension of until 31/12-2022 for the acquisition by permanent professors of doctoral education applications to develop into an assistant teacher. It is a continuation of the previous article I told you about the obsession. Obviously, it's a trick to certain people, so now give us the list of names, to figure out why it's happening, since sooner or later they'll be known. Chapter IV entitled 'Research Regulations', in particular Article 20 thereof, provides for the possibility of transferring high-quality scientists from primary and secondary education to research centres. Basic education should normally be strengthened by those teachers who have increased qualifications and not by depreciating primary and secondary schools. In addition, have you considered how to fill these gaps that will be created? The aim should be to upgrade the public school and not its attempted extinction. In Article 32 there is the unacceptable third paragraph to us, which says that it is maintained in the school units of primary education as a holiday for the three hierarchies, but the celebration is abolished. I can understand what your problem is. You do not want there to be a celebration of a school event and to honor three Hierarchs who are honored for the teachings in favor of Christianity. Say it more clearly and not leave the holiday so that teachers don't complain, but abolish the celebration. In Article 33, the third paragraph relates to the gradual compulsory schooling of infants between four and five years of age in kindergarten. Dozens of reactions. Are there any necessary structures? The municipalities say they don't exist. Public kindergartens and their workers react. They're closed today, Minister. Even the private in the region have expressed strong reactions. Everyone has a complaint about this provision. You're the only ones who think she's good. Maybe you should look better. Are there going to be public posts? Will families be able to take their children to a public nursing school, or will you say that there are no places and they should necessarily go to private home? In Article 34 for the evaluation of students of general high school, the procedures for the preparation of creative work are reordered and the number of courses examined in writing for the absolute examinations of general high school in four courses: New Greek, Mathematics, History and Biology. As far as creative work is concerned, the Minister makes them compulsory because, as he has said, there must be particular emphasis on the creative thinking and action of the students. Of course, it is a good question how they will be evaluated. What will be the criteria? Will this also be the case in the report, where everyone can develop an issue that if they are outside this norm does not get a good grade and is not considered acceptable? How can it be applied to creative work and to what subjectivity, in order to be able to play a more important role? I told you there are too many reactions. We've got a lot of messages. They will, however, be told by the next speakers. I would like to focus a little on the amendment on school meals. We are against, not giving school meals, but in the way they are given. At first we said that we are voting against it, because it is a direct delegation. It doesn't change anything. You continue to say that school meals will be given by direct assignment, you just want to bypass some procedures. Perhaps you should think about creating jobs for the parents of these children and don’t have to be given school meals. You promised that you would change the anticipation that the memorials brought us and have a better quality of life for children and their families. In conclusion, I would like to refer to the 'no' that the AMP consortium has expressed and mentioned here, within five paragraphs, where it opposes it. Why the establishment of a university, he says, requires the preparation of feasibility and sustainability studies, etc. And you ended up asking them: "Why two meters and two weights and when it was the combination of the Thessaloniki TEIs, did they accept it and now that it is for the University of Western Attica they do not accept it?" And we ask you: why was this just a fusion and not an upgrade, and now there are two meters and two weights? We will therefore vote against the bill as Golden Dawn, since even in some positive provisions that might have existed, there is no clear time frame and even more, because you add this 'that the Minister will decide on the further provisions when...'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u15	The Bureau confirms Mrs Zaroulia's presence because she has forgotten her card and could not be registered. We proceed with the special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Delis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a general position could be that, with today's bill, the government adds another link to the long chain of reactionary restructurings in education, which have, of course, been designed and declared by the European Union for years now, they have also started to be implemented in our country successively by all governments and even a long time before the Memorandums come. The European Union is literally inclined to adapt education to the needs of business groups, using the ideological role of education as well as its irreplaceable role in the transmission and production of knowledge. SYRIZA, therefore, does not begin, when it specialises and implements this educational strategy in our country, simply continues in the direction of the former with greater masturbation and boldness, something that surprises the representatives of Greek capital, who do not hide their joy. It is only that this educational policy is increasingly being removed from the people's needs in education. It makes the educational good an expensive commodity, and that's rusted. It constantly strengthens the commercialisation and logic of entrepreneurship at all levels of education, from the university to the kindergarten, with the aim of all educational units operating as firms as well as for the needs of enterprises. This is the most profound reason why people's families are forced to put their hand deeper and deeper in their pockets, to educate their children from preschool age to higher education, before the jungle of capitalist production welcomes them. Here, in this strategy, we also have the current flag - according to the government - a bill, which reopens the vendal of reactionary restructuring at all levels of education, and that is why we are rushing to say that we are voting against it at first. We are founding, says the Government, the University of Western Attica, merging the Athens and Piraeus TEIs. This upgrades this degraded area, upgrades students' degrees and, above all, boosts economic development, and that is good for all. Look, to upgrade the Western Attica of the explosives, which has come to mourn even victims of a strong rain, due to the lack of infrastructure and where accidents at work, often too much, are not missing, words are unnecessary. It's not good to talk rope at the hanger's house. Nothing original and emblematic is done by the government by merging the two TEIs to university. In fact, it continues the mergers in higher education, which began with the previous government's "ATHENA" project - so Mr Arvanitopoulou's bravos are explained - so that the educational costs, in particular, could be stopped, to tighten the higher education institutions to the chariot of business groups. And here in Attica, West Attica, we're not talking about any business groups or any business groups. This is where the 'COSCO' lies. Here are the shipowners. Here and the Triumphant field, intended for even bigger business, for example in logistics and transport. For all these and their business interests, the government project can also prove to be emblematic. That is why they warmly welcome it, after they have participated - as they say - in its planning. And it's good to leave these rotten academic criteria. But for the students? For the educational staff? First of all, this is not the first time that upgrades or a further upgrade of the TEI are declared. We remind them of their superiorisation in 2000 and of the great words that were said at the time, which were of course left without reflection. Because the TEI problem is not a label issue. It's a matter of substance. What benefit did young people see with the differentiated and thus categorized degrees, like, nursing or accounting, which they give to universities and TEIs? And in the racing question of a new 'What will I do after my studies', is that the way out which all the urban parties propose to him, telling him, 'Take a degree, as the market asks, paid for a postgraduate course, for a certificate, so that the university is a business that works for large businesses, don't stop this hunting of qualifications, let alone open a door'? Life shows that unemployment remains high in the new generation, despite its postgraduate and doctorates. So the problem lies elsewhere and not in the qualifications. It is in the very organisation of social production and its subjection to capitalist gains instead of, as the JRC proposes and fights, to serve the social needs of the majority. And here, with the founded University of Western Attica, not only does not make any equivalence or upgrade, but further deepens the differentiation and categorisation of diplomas, departments and graduates. And so, the list of graduated degrees for the same scientific objects and, of course, for the same professions is even higher. A mosaic of degrees, i.e., which will have the master level degrees, let's say, the Polytechnic and Agronomical degrees, the bachelor level degrees of the University of Western Attica, the degrees of the old graduates of the TEIs, which are not recognized as academic, the diplomas of the two-year training programs of the HEIs starting from this University. And then all the time. Who is favouring this multiclassification? Obviously, the big-workers, the industrialists and the shipowners, who will choose each time for their work and for their profits and for as long as they need it, sowing up the dilemma and competition between the candidates and pushing wages and rights to the bottom - that means in their own language 'competitive worker' - and with governments, in addition, making them all backwards and legislating on wage cuts, flexible forms of work, dismantling collective agreements, and of course the obstacles to the right to strike. And when some people do not see all of this and how the terms of work are becoming more and more a matter of personal negotiation and lifting the excess of close professional rights, then or throwing ashes into the eyes so that they don't see the reality or distribute deceit. Because, as the Minister said, the European Union does not recognise professional rights. He only certifies qualifications. And how far, truly, all these syndicate controversy and academic civils who broke out on the occasion of this university, when all they do is disorientate and obscure the harsh reality. The sub-financing will also be present at the University of Western Attica. Lack of teaching staff in the new institution will probably become greater, as the Minister, in addition to words of comfort, avoids any commitment to continuing the work of the hundreds of temporary staff of the two TEIs and of new recruitments, of course, not a reason. And it is so much the precursor to serve the needs not of the people, but of the capitalist market - the needs, of course, of the day and constantly changing according to the expectation of profits - so that they can be created in this university except for the mammoth departments, and even university departments of Frankenstein, such as the Biomedical Sciences Department, to which they will join - listen! - radiation aesthetics, cosmetology with radiation therapy and medical laboratories with optical, optomy and dental technology. Ultimately, all these mergers and combinations of institutions and schools do not dictate them neither scientific technological developments nor the needs of each scientific object, and much more they do not dictate the popular needs that are constantly widened by the continuing scientific achievements. They dictate them and demand them the profits of business groups and the barbaric working landscape they form together with their governments, so that they have at their disposal an increasingly cheaper scientific and labour force of many categories and many speeds. This means growth for workers. And they're as barbaric as the crisis! This cheap workforce is, among other things, taking care of Article 8 of the bill establishing the Centres for Vocational Training for Graduates of the PES, which the Government seems to be seeking to turn massively to these centres or to the post-training apprenticeships, since it reduces their access to higher education institutions. And all this starts with this University of West Attica. And that's just not random! Listen to what the President of the Piraeus merchants, with his side and the President of the Greek Shipowners said: "The parts that we at least have designed as a market, as a real economy..." - we have designed! - "...it's originally five. That's what we've given a priority. We know that these are the immediate needs of the market." The Minister, however, openly admitted to the committee yesterday, that the curriculum programmes, what they will learn, namely, those who will be attending these two-year centres, will be decided by the producer bodies - the business groups, namely - and that academic staff at the university will simply have their authority. Pilot, then, and a model for strengthening capitalist development this University of West Attica. The very staff of business groups and shipowners do not simply order. They also undertake the design of young people's curricula as they want them and as long as they need them, depending on their business choices. And here we are not talking about whatever cheap workers' hands and minds, but about the free and fresh youth workforce, which will work, constantly renewed, on business and shipowners with the status of changing apprenticeship and practice, without costing them absolutely anything, since they will be paid by the OAED below even the minimum wage. How, then, can capitalists, shipowners and industrialists hide their joys for all the things that this university of the SYRIZA government promises them, when it further closes them first in the national body responsible for apprenticeship? Besides, the bill introduces a steep provision for student relocations, which certainly does not solve the acute problem of many people's families to study their children away from home. The JRC has tabled an amendment to this issue, which is directly addressing it. We will be placed for it, as for the rest, for the other two we have tabled, but also for all the amendments, in our second language. In addition, the bill includes a scanning of educational disciplines and specialties, according to the OOSA toolbox, without any scientific documentation. This very simply means that second and third lesson assignments will go cloud, overnumbers will appear out of nowhere, and so even these substitute recruitments will be reduced even further. The rationalisation of the memorandum in full action. On the provision of pre-school education, which has lifted up and lifted up a lot of noise: a bad game is played between the government and the CEDE, which has several trade union leaders who hypocritically care - it says - about contractors, when they do not accept them at the same time in their unions. A bad game is being played at the expense of every child's right to free and public pre-school education and a disorientative collaborative confrontation that lures workers to fight each other, instead of seeing their real opponents, in a policy that breaks them and serves them both by the government and by the CED. So the government announces the two-year compulsory pre-school education. Good! But he says it's going to happen gradually, in three years, and he stays there. He's not taking any practical action. Not even a timeline plan shows how this announcement will be implemented, when known - known - the enormous shortages in building infrastructure, as well as the shortcomings in teaching staff now. There are little cases where kindergartens inhibit their full-day function in order to fill the educational gaps in the morning cycle. This announcement by the Ministry mobilizes the reflexes of the CEDE, which come out against the mandatoryity of pre-school education, because it is afraid that the municipalities will lose their customers at municipal school with the vouchers or people who collect from the popular families. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need one more minute, Mr. President. Thank you. The CEDEFOP immediately proposes the so-called "free choice" of the structure that each parent wishes for his child, by closing the eye on private children's stations and by opening, at the same time, dangerous roads to public education. The Minister takes all of it - and the necessary alibi - and the committee is aware the day before yesterday that this right to free choice of structure remains until the completion of the process of compulsoryity, which no one can guarantee as to when it will be completed. Therefore, compulsoryity, Minister, does not seem to be so mandatory. However, the CEDEFOP also goes a step further, more reactionary: Asks for kindergartens to pass through the municipalities. What does that mean? It means not only compensation for tuition fees, as was done with the passage, in 2003, of state - free of charge - children's stations in the municipalities, but also something else. It means dismantling the single necessary educational program that pre-school education must have, leaving it to the potential of each municipality. We won't play in this set-up game. We're talking openly and clearly. For us it is important before all the modern needs of the children. And that means today that every child must have a place in kindergartens and kindergartens and that it must be provided free of charge and with the responsibility of the state. Both these kindergartens and kindergartens must be modern, safe and, of course, have all the necessary permanent staff of all specialties. There must be a single scientifically-processed treatment programme, centrally responsible, because pre-school treatment is not a mere pediatric facility. It must be at a university level to train all teachers, by reducing the proportion of children per teacher and, of course, by all the necessary recruitment of permanent teachers. If we wait for the government - like the previous ones - it will never find money for these basic people's needs. If it was for NATO, then the "hoards" get caught. But that's exactly why they have to perpetuate. This is what new couples have to claim, and that is why it is really worth fighting together all the workers in the space, instead of being eaten and fighting with each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u17	The Member of Parliament, George Amyras, shall request a leave for absence abroad from 9 March to 13 March 2018. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u18	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theory forty two students and students and two of their teachers from the "Erasmus Hellenic-German School" Municipal School (2nd Department). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The special speaker of the Independent Greeks, Mr Konstantinos Katsikis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin by saying: 'Out of the letters the virtue with which the free nations are glowing is born'. I could not imagine more fine words and a more precise approach than King Ferraios's to describe the importance of letters and through them, the cultivation of virtue and the building of the freedom of nations. Allow me to make a reference, personally, ladies and gentlemen, to a statement of soul. As a new Member of a small, in number, of a parliamentary group, I have the opportunity to participate in several parliamentary committees. But my participation in the Committee on Morphic Affairs is sincerely enthusiastic about me. The possibility of designing, listing and confronting, agreeing and disagreeing in the end, of coexisting and implementing actions that have received the most basic pillar of the state, our children, seems to me but wonderful and frightening. The decisions to be taken and the responsibility to take them create the awareness of the absolute debt. For us Independent Greeks education is an absolute national priority. This is why it is imperative to ensure that the academic mission of the educational institutions in the country is carried out in every way, as well as that uninterrupted access to education for all citizens, regardless of their economic potential. The current draft law recommends an integrated institutional intervention in the organisation of higher education institutions, using previous legislative processes, as well as an essential element resulting from parliamentary procedures. Its proposed provisions aim at treating problems and malfunctions in order to strengthen structures and make them more effective, to gain adequate and reliable and to contribute to the qualitative upgrading of the educational process in all its areas, with the aim of effectively addressing the cultural, social and economic challenges faced by the country and in fact contributing to the general progress of society. Its rules aim at maintaining the public character of higher education institutions. I would point out our disagreement about what was heard in committee and saw the light of the publicity of facilitating, through this bill, the establishment and operation of private universities. What provision does that or, in any event, what provision is concealed? Somebody answer me. What is being attempted is a closer link between education and research and the elimination of the existence of many rapid growth in higher education institutions. The establishment of the University of Western Attica takes a major step towards addressing inequalities and discrimination, as well as linking knowledge to the country's urgent development needs. The academic criteria were the sole aim of the formation of the new university, apart from multi-dimensional and ultra-qualifications, with the creation of sections whose cognitive fields do not yet exist in the map of higher education in Greece. However, these are cognitive objects compatible with international scientific developments, but also linked at the same time to the economic and social sectors that are the head of the spear for the country. These are cognitive objects compatible with international scientific developments and also, at the same time, associated with the social and economic sectors that are the head of the spear for the country. In this way academic units will acquire a strong presence in the Greek and international area. It was considered necessary to abolish the two technological educational establishments of Athens and Piraeus so that with their skilled staff and existing infrastructure the newly established university can be supported and efficient with the benefits of its operation for both the students and the state and society. The establishment of twenty-six independent academic sections, compared with forty-two currently operating in the two technological institutions that are being absorbed, gives the University of Western Attica a comparative advantage that some Greek universities have. The fact that it will heal a wide range of sciences and arts at the same time leads to considerable economies of scale both at academic and logistical level with significant benefits in saving and efficient management of resources. The establishment of the University of West Attica does not simply obey the cumulative rationalization of the existing powers of the two technological educational institutions. On the contrary, it marks the development of a new dynamic that ensures greater potential and prospects for all the parties involved in the logic that the whole is greater than the sum of its parts. The added value of the new university consists of events such as the clear technological orientation of the two institutions being absorbed, the integration and exploitation of this technological dimension, both in the field of education and in the field of research, it is certain that it will yield significant results, as has shown similar tactics at European level. Another fact, ladies and gentlemen, to be assessed, should be the increase in the attractiveness of the new institution in terms of both academics, such as attracting students from IGC members, scientific partners and developing cooperation outside the academic area, such as with local government with the IGC, chambers and other bodies at both local and national level. Improving the level of the incoming student population with the direct consequence of upgrading the educational process and through it strengthening the professional profile of their trainees make it worthwhile in a continuous, growing demanding working environment. However, since the success of the whole project is also based on the other pillar called teaching staff, Minister, more attention to the provision of Article 4(2)(a). I consider a receptacle of actions to be the different payroll between individual positions and regular posts of teachers. In no public area, members of staff shall be paid differently from those who hold regular posts since their duties are not differentiated. Some do not provide less work than others. I would therefore suggest, Minister, that this paragraph be withdrawn, which will also create a civil war within the university community. I shall now return to the provisions under discussion. I believe that vocational training is being strengthened through the operation of the two-year programmes for graduates in a academic establishment, such as the Centres for Vocational Training under the umbrella of a higher education institution. The search for knowledge gained through systematic study, observation and experimentation, i.e. through research, is implemented within academic and industrial environments, requires cooperation, freedom to formulate research questions, development of theories, collection of empirical data and the application of appropriate study methods. However, sometimes there is the possibility that values and goods protected by international rules, by Union law or by national legislation and research projects may jeopardise human autonomy, his privacy and, of course, his personal data. The basic task of the research community is to respect the ethical principles of research in order to ensure its reliability and to maximise its quality. For this reason, it was considered necessary to establish Committees on Ethics, which would exercise a kind of screening of ethical fitness. Their operation will contribute to the functioning of educational institutions ensuring ethical and ethical standards, so that their research work is given the necessary acceptance from all over the community. The establishment of the National Coordinating Body of Learning will ensure the quality of the vocational training process and of the vocational training of citizens. Coordination, follow-up of implementation and evaluation of actions in the context of vocational apprenticeship training will enhance and enhance the lifelong learning of citizens. We are giving our complete consent, as I had detailed information during the discussion in committee and in the operation of school units within the prisons of the country. Ensuring the conditions and standards for the smooth social reintegration of detainees must be a key and key concern of the state. I shall conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by returning to Article 17, Mr Minister, on the possibility of transferring students from one city to another. The spirit of the pensioner may have been no more than the State's assistance to their families and children who wish to do so, but who are unable to meet the requirements arising from their studies, whipped up by the long economic crisis. However, it would be unfair not to include in the care of the state children who are depriving one parent of their death, and the remaining single parent family is able to cope, as we all have to know, with enormous difficulties in living. Our proposal to introduce a new translation law, with a cross-party consensus, certainly finds us in complete agreement. However, it is a process that will require time. However, the living of students is a matter of zeon. For this reason, on behalf of you, let the amendment I tabled with a general number of 1482 and a special number of 147, on 15 February, in which I believe no colleague will oppose it. Let's give these children a breath of relief that life has shown so hard a face. In conclusion, I would like to say that we, the Independent Greeks, are voting in favour of this bill because the proposed arrangements aim to solve problems and malfunctions so that the educational structures of the country are made more effective, to gain greater credibility, to contribute to upgrading the educational process in all areas with the ultimate aim of effectively addressing all the challenges, economic, social, cultural, which the country faces, contributing to the real progress of society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u20	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, twenty-eight students and students and three students - professors from the Electoral School of Antimachia in Kos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We proceed with the special speaker from the Association of Centres, Mr Anastasio Megalomustaka.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin today by saying that this is a great day, as we have the beginning of a flagship, as it was described within the committee, a bill which could improve the situation, as we know it, in today's higher education institutions. However, I have to say that it still didn't come the right way. We may have followed the normal procedure, and that's what happened at the table. There was a government's intention to bring together the two committees and make them one. Fortunately, it has not been done, but today is not something we welcome, that is to say to us an amendment of forty-nine pages today. I do not believe that this is the right way of legislating, especially in the field of education which, as we have all said, is perhaps the highest issue that we need to consider, improve and perfect, because that is the only way that will come to us is this much-conscious change that we are all asking for in this Chamber, but also in our society. We must give time to the bills and especially to those of the Ministry of Education. On the other hand, of course, the positions which have been taken within the committees, but also those which we are hearing today and the views which have been heard by the speakers, are reminiscent of parallel roads. We do not see the views of opposition parties meet anywhere with the government. And that's very negative. It's really negative, and I'll explain why. I believe that even this time, unfortunately, monologues have been unfolded that have failed to escape from the more general party strategies, but neither to formulate a complex logic, consisting in many respects, in order to have a constructive dialogue. I have listened very carefully to the opposition representatives talking about various issues and blaming the government. One of these is professional rights. We all know very well in here what has happened so many years for professional rights: absolutely nothing. We have seen that with this bill there is absolutely no solution at all. There were some undertakings that the matter will come to Parliament to discuss it and, finally, to resolve it, but we cannot go like that. One who has not taken responsibility for so many years for what was wrong in this country, and especially in the field of education, cannot come and criticise, without doing what I said before, namely accepting his own responsibility. Nor can I accept the policy of'seeing and doing' when we asked the Minister on several occasions and some suggestions that we did not make out of our minds. Most of them were from letters and suggestions made to us by the institutions. We, as a Centro Association, cannot accept hearing the justification that we will see how it will go forward and correct it. Some things we have to accept from the beginning. We do not need to get into the process of constantly changing the bills, as has been done so far, not only from you, but from everyone who has been in the government so far. There are, of course, some positive points so as not to be zero in the whole process. The most positive of all that we are keeping from the committee is the proposal to co-formulate a joint proposal on relocations. We hope for what you are writing in your letter that there will be immediately all the necessary elements we need in order to formulate a well-structured proposal, to be implemented. We could also welcome the fact that there was a universal solution to the issue of the import rate for children at the new university, but also to the integration of certain sectors. We have not taken into account everything we have said, so we cannot say that it is the best solution. Unfortunately, in general terms, instead of there being an area which is unavoidable, without any party trace, with a climate of harmony, we always see the opposite happening, to continue to be an area of controversy and controversy. A translated example from this bill is in particular the provision for the children of the 3rd grade to be examined in order to obtain the abatement in four more in-school classes, while for their introduction they are re-examined in four lessons, which we will be voting in favour of. Consider that twenty years have elapsed since the beginning of the application of Law 2525/1997, where then abolishing the packages of the four courses had to compete in all courses from the second and third grades of high school. You can understand that this measure could not be maintained, continued, so we are turning back to four lessons. In these twenty years that law has undergone many changes. We are all aware here of the reforms under name, as I have said in another committee and another draft law on education. Despite the grand and majestic changes that have taken place, I will tell you that students and high school students are now unfortunately taught in school manuals, many of which have not changed since 1995. It is like we all admit in here that science has ceased to develop in 1995. Many of the books currently being taught have not been updated. For us, therefore, the solution is a consensus. We've said it many times. More generally, and not only on education, we are a party that supports consensus and cooperation, and that is what we need to do between us. We must stand up and speak honestly to each other about what this country needs, what this system needs to improve, because it all starts with education, it's all about education and culture. The Central Association has, therefore, in recent years within Parliament, shown that it is honestly and honestly dealing with these issues, and that is what we are asking for from all sides. It is very clear in our positions, which we have published almost since the beginning of our term of office in this Parliament, that what we are proposing and what we are voting for or always doing in the light of academic development and bearing in mind what the social benefits are. At this point I would like to make it clear both in plenary and in order to hear and write in the Minutes that, in his honour, the Deputy Minister of Education, Mr Baxvanakis, admitted that many of our positions were correct and were adopted by the present Government and we thank him for that. But here, we would also like to raise some other issues that have been given the opportunity to talk about and you should take serious account of them. In particular, they are some of our proposals, such as the formation of the administrative group - I have explained and spoken about it within the committees - such as the immediate adoption of the decisions of the CouncU on matters relating to school life, the introduction of an advisory presence for lawyers when we discuss in committees and in Parliament issues relating to education. The extension of the Student's Consortium on Examination and Rating, the establishment of an ERASMUS staff, the abolition of graduation fees for graduates who are at the same school, the complete dismantling of teachers with their bureaucratic work and the practical exercise of students in secretarial school support, and the preparation of our children in an area in which they need it. We have seen the problems faced by school managers, who have no time to even manage the My school platform. Now move on to the bill in the other articles. The first is the establishment of the University of West Attica, which I would like to say will be a new beginning, as I said at the beginning of my speech. It is very important for the educational activities of a country, the establishment of a new and so large university. At the same time, this move also recognizes the work that has been done so far by the departments and schools of HEIs which are integrated. I have stressed many times during committee meetings that we are seeing the creation of this university positively and we would not want to be the ones who, in ten years' time, will blame us for not being in favour of such a step. However, all the proposals that have been made by us should be taken into account. As I said again, we need to look positively at the conspiracy of degrees - and you and all of us here - especially those who completed their studies in recent years. All students should be able to do so, since they have not yet obtained a degree to be able to choose how to continue and to be independent in parts where they wish to do so and where the criteria are met. I should like to point out now for the second chapter, namely Article 10, that we should take into account what the Greek researchers are proposing to us, so that pre-services may be recognised within the country. As far as the third chapter, which has rules for higher education, is concerned, we are not opposed to many of them, but we must put all our powers in order to find the necessary resources to regulate these articles and provisions. Then, in Article 29, we have found rather a typographic error, where you speak of electronics. You have them as the IP84 and then you have them as the IP89. I have the impression that it is a typographic error and it is a good thing to correct it. We would like in Article 28, as I have said before, to be 20%, at least for the current pupils of professional high school, their absorption at the new university. And it is worth mentioning, because I want to believe that I am fair in the second opportunity schools, which were set up by Law 2525/1997, which I mentioned earlier. A positive step is taken with this draft legislation, which regulates second-rate schools. We must remember that these schools were created and trampled and continued because there was consensus, because our society accepted them in love, because everyone accepted them, I think, those who went through this Parliament, with due care and we saw what their benefits were. I also think it is useful that we all know in this House that the teachers of the first LAG, who operated in 2000 in Peristeri, were awarded, about fifteen years later, by their students. And I'm talking to you as an instructor, I think there's no higher honor for a teacher than at least being awarded or appreciated by his work than he worked with. There's a very nice climate in these schools, too much love, I could say, and that pleases us. We should continue and strengthen this work. One more thing, I would like to say, that at this award there was a man present who, unfortunately, no longer exists near us, George Zunnel, a teacher who fought for the second-rate institution of the Schools of Occupation. All of us in here, as I said - and I repeat, because it is very important - to consent to such very positive moves. To close the bill, I would like to refer to Article 33, which deals with two-year compulsory education. It is an article that we support, as it is our permanent position from the outset that two-year compulsory education, for the sake of children, always has academic and scientific criteria and not to serve some micro-political purposes. However, we must take into account what the conditions are at the moment in our society. We have proposed it to the committees, and we are proposing it now, that there should be an extension of the permits for nurseries. The kindergartens currently have the premises, they have kindergartens appointed, who could help with this lack of structures and teachers, which is the main argument for those who do not want two-year-old compulsory education. To close, I will make a very brief comment on what is happening in the news of yesterday's events.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u22	No, you'll tell that in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u23	In my dentistry I will be very brief, Mr President. I'm gonna need a minute. It's tragic to see what we saw yesterday on the field. Sports and education should be one. These are connected from ancient times to all the peoples. We saw that, although the government is putting strict fines, there is no solution. Therefore, fines will not be the solution here. The solution will be the change of education, the creation of a new culture, an athletic culture that will be appropriate in 2018, it will be appropriate for our children in the future. It is unacceptable today to see such images. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u24	Mr Mavroy, because I am sure I have your consent, I will give the floor for three to four minutes to Mrs Fotou to present her amendment and then to you immediately. Thank you. Here, Mrs. Fotio, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u25	Thank you very much, Mr President and Mr Mavroy. This is an amendment by the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, with a general number of 1495 and a special 159. This is a regulation which tackles the bureaucratic problems that have arisen in the implementation of the pilot project on school meals in primary school schools. In particular, there has been a failure to set up receipt committees in single schools, with the delay in the payment of contractors. The proposed provision facilitates the day-to-day receipt of meals and speeds up the repayment of contractors. The provision in the amendment is therefore that the receipt is certified by the competent Regional Director of Primary and Secondary Education for all school meals delivered to schools in his responsibility. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u26	You too, Minister, didn't run out of time. Mr. Black, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. After four meetings, then, in the Committee on Morphic Affairs, the draft law establishing the University of West Attica and other provisions comes to the plenary for the final debate. The University of Western Attica will be created by the merger of the Athens and Piraeus TEIs. The third will be created in a number of university students in the country with twenty-six departments and about twenty-four thousand students. We attach great importance to this process, because it will - I imagine - be a pilot for the other TEI-university mergers that have been launched. While we would expect this process to be gradual in order to converging smoothly and absorb any vibrations from the transition from TEI to a university, a fast track procedure was chosen. It also suggests the report from the Scientific Office of the Parliament on page 7, which says that it is not enough to establish a new university, but, apart from structures, to evaluate the time and procedures for transition. Also, in the dilemma "Chairman or law" to establish the University of West Attica, the Minister said that a law was chosen instead of a presidential decree, to consult and transparent. However, it is as if he admits that Law 4485 - which you voted on last summer and provides for the establishment of a new EMI by a presidential decree - is ultimately a mistake. In other words, establishing by law and establishing by a presidential decree can be both right, unless you want ad hoc to use what suits you at this particular juncture. But let us, in fact, go from the point of view of procedure. As the PPP, therefore, appeared to have discussed, the Quality Assurance Authority in higher education, which, according to the law, opinions on the national higher education strategy, was not asked. It expressed serious concerns in the Committee on Morphic Affairs about the way in which the project took place. More clearly, the opinion of mayors and chambers has been measured despite the IPP or the University Rector's Synod. The big question is what the role of TEIs in Greek higher education is. Do we need them or not? Are we going to have two-year-old structures in vocational education centres and then university degrees? The application technicians, the middle strains of Greek production, the backbone, where will they graduate? From the universities? So this is a great debate that has not taken place or remained in the middle of the summer of 2016, when the current Minister of Education, as the chairman of the Committee on Morphic Affairs, said that the TEI departments should be divided into three categories: firstly, those which can be directly academic and which are enough - I say this from experience, because as a university I have collaborated with several of these sections - secondly, those that can be academic within three years and, thirdly, those that do not have a university object. This debate should be held beforehand, and not in the run-up to now. In this process of university studies the academic criteria were "done". Other departments retained their autonomy and others merged without academic procedures. Anyone who had a louder voice or was closer to the Ministry's "ears", kept the autonomy of his department. Micro-management, therefore, played the primary role and academic secondary role. The whole of the study shows that the emblematic - as you say - initiative was made with a glance at the polls. And I wouldn't be surprised if they started growing like mushrooms and schools at the University of West Attica all over Attica. So, if that's the plan, what's different from what you've complained about in the past? For aalum with schools, graduates, graduates, we talked about it in committees too. Unfortunately, they are sacrificed to the altar of hasty proclamation. The characteristic is the case of the biomedical science department where five heterogeneous sections are merged: medical laboratories, radiologists, optometers, dentists and aesthetics. Retrospectively, we also received letters showing that things became completely 'on the foot'. If the merger was based on the relevance of the objects, for example nursing, maternity and Community health are much more related, although they remain autonomous. Let's go to the other provisions of the bill. In Article 9, you expressly place the social offer as a criterion that is taken into account, particularly in the developments and elections of the IPA members. But how will the social offer be assessed? Would this be the way the selection criteria will be produced? Let's go to article 17 of the relocations, which - I imagine - will you, Minister, withdraw, otherwise what is the point of asking for the parties' proposals? You ask us within ten days for our proposals on the relocations and say that you will send us what we ask. Minister, I have asked you a question about the relocations, asking for information from 21 February, not in 2018 but in 2017, a year back and you have not answered me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u28	Excuse me, what did you do?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u29	Question about relocations.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u30	General?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u31	Yes, on February 21, 2017, and not answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u32	Excuse me, they're up all the elements of the transcripts. What can I say?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u33	I'm asking you for other evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u34	What evidence?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u35	I'll tell you in dentistry. We have also talked about it in the Committee on Forums, but I thought you would be better off responding to some.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u36	Don't talk again.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u37	From the twenty-eight questions from 1-1-2017 you have answered the five questions and now say that you will send the information we will ask in a week so that in two weeks we can give you our proposals. In other words, parliamentary control for you and your services is decorative and you do not answer, but when it is a proposal debate, you will hurry to answer us. You can understand, of course, that you are confessing that you were either missing us in parliamentary control, or you are now mocking us that you will answer in a week. What's the matter with both of you? We'll see. In any case, we will respond to your request, as we have done in the past with our proposals for high school, which are obviously resting in some ministerial drawers. With the translations - to come and stay on this issue - the solution is that there is no need for the translations, apart from special exceptions, to be able to study all the children where they succeed. Instead of giving resources to support, as you said, the central universities, which will accept the great weight - as you said, as you said, - you should strengthen the student centres in regional universities and monitor their proper functioning or even give incentives so that students can work in structures within the university, clubs, libraries, etc. so that they can meet the cost of their studies. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not just about studying all children. It's about how they're studying. If in some central part the hundred and eighty entertainers become four hundred and do half the workshops, so that everyone can do or stack ten to every exercise or not everyone fits in the amphitheater - and I tell you from experience - then you understand that the level of study falls vertically. The measure of the relocations is popular and gives votes. However, we must not make a vote and get away from the limits of the school's stalemate, the 15% legislature, apart from the relocations, if we do so, we are also indirectly ignoring the institution of the pan-Hellenic examinations itself. In Article 19, you have withdrawn, if I have understood correctly, paragraph 1 on the exchange rate of securities. In accordance with the Ministry's Communication, this provision is therefore withdrawn, since different interpretations have been formulated and attempted to obtain as wide a cross-party consensus as possible. Do you, Minister, are you wrong here? Do you mean that there will be as wide a internal party consensus as possible? Because, as I recall, from the other parties, there has been no reaction but the burning reaction from Mr Philly - who I do not see in the Chamber - you are in the same party. In Article 20 on research: there is still a question of recognizing the pre-service of researchers who, because of the nature of their work, do not work with a stable employment relationship. In addition, the Association of Investigators, as well as the question of the employment of PPPs, has mentioned private law for a fixed period of time. Paragraph 10 of Article 20 for the IKY programmes states that a scientific expert may also be a member of the administrative staff if he has a higher education degree. Just a degree. Not a doctoral or a postgraduate. What kind of programs are these? I wonder, honestly. In paragraph 11 I objected to the bleeding of high-qualified schools to go to research centres, namely teachers and teachers. I said this when a corresponding arrangement had been made for SSP positions at universities. On the one hand, we have inadequacies in schools, especially in experimental models, leaving qualified teachers - and we have asked that question, waiting in vain for an answer - and on the other hand, these positions could be understood by scientists who, with the suitcase in their hand, are prepared to leave abroad. For Article 29 with mergers of specialties, we have received many letters and objections. Forests, foresters, environmentalists, special education teachers, musicians, theatrologists and others have justified objections. It also disappeared with the legislative improvement of the specialty of radio-electronics, which you deprive them of, and antiquity. Not that mergers do not require, but in the way that they go, they are entering the bill without consultation - they will certainly create injustices. It is the way of 'let us legislate and then we see'. Oh, no! First we see and then we legislate. In order not only to say negative, we are positive in schools, in prisons, in the committees of ethics and ethics of research. For Article 33, which has been a great deal of talk about paragraphs 3 and 4, we are positively seeing the two-year pre-school education, but with full implementation of the full-day operation and strengthening of structures and staff. It must be the service of citizens and families rather than the mayors or the Ministry or the conflicts between different branches. However, here the compulsory two-year pre-school education comes very arroba and surprisingly, as was seen by the stakeholders, which we have heard. The time has therefore to be given for children's facilities to be adapted - as the Minister said to the committees - by maintaining the right to choose the parent for a nursery or kindergarten for this transitional period. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, it has been said to the Government that the initiative for the University of Western Attica is comprehensive. For us, it is not conceivable, it is problematic, especially as regards the procedure chosen. And let me. I particularly appreciate the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Skourikos, who is also a colleague in the same Region of Attica, but do I have one question: so many universities in SYRIZA have not found one to take on the rapporteur of a university bill? Is the criterion that was established, not the relevance to the subject? This in itself tells a lot about SYRIZA's priorities with this bill. So if I were to think voterly, too, as a Member of the Attica, I would "court" the criticism of the process of creating the University of Western Attica. I would support it on the basis that my constituency will acquire a university, not whatever the third in size in the country. But I cannot close my eyes to academic alchemy, because there are other TEI-university mergers in Greece and the same mistakes must not be repeated. So this is a bill, which could actually help upgrade TEIs, following academic criteria. Unfortunately, however, it is part of a policy that we are used to by the government and the Ministry, its policy, firstly, I announce that something will be done and then I am studying how this is going to be done. And because in Greece the words bring them the words and not the works, so does the government. It doesn't start building from the foundations, but from the sign and the caption. The strong foundations, however, unfortunately, do not bring votes. The fancy labels do that. So it seems that the primary goal was that the University of West Attica was to have in the computer for the next September, when the election window opens, there should be in the election spots, and there should be a million unsolved problems. I see it now "It was fair, it was done" to close this spot. To prevent the spots, then, there is an opportunity to build a robust, sustainable application university in two or three years' time. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ten more seconds, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u38	Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u39	Create a robust, sustainable application university from the merger of the two TEIs. But when politics is involved in academic planning, the result is that political processes in the state should win academic processes, which is exactly what they pay for our universities to date. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, let me inform you that you have registered thirty-five Members to speak. We've made a calculation with the partners of the Chair. If we go smoothly and seriously, as we go so far, I estimate that not before 9 p.m., but not after 10 p.m., the sitting will be closed and with the secondarys of the rapporteurs, if they so wish. Mr Minister, you will either take the floor now or, if you will, speak of the first six colleagues, who are one per party and immediately after six, you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u41	I will now speak, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u42	Mr President, I'll be right back.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u43	No, that's not the case. They will speak six Members, a State Secretary, and from now on I tell you that you will have half the time of the Minister. Three ministers in a row, no way, forget it. Mr. Gabroglou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. This is a flagrant initiative by the Government, which goes ahead with the establishment of the University of Western Attica, which is not - we have told the committees many times and some refuse to understand - the mere combination of the two technological educational institutions in our country. However, today's initiative is emblematic, not only because a new university is being set up, but because, through this foundation and the discussions that have taken place, the logic of upgrading TEIs in our country is being guaranteed. I challenge - and thankfully, some speakers have avoided this challenge - to tell me when in the past twenty-five years there has been a political upgrade of the TEIs. When, by what government and under what terms? No one. What happened was horizontal superiorization. What happened is that the same people who did it created the concept in society that TEIs are "for TEIs", TEIs are "for rooms to let". This has to stop. Our government is also the first, not only to say it publicly, but it also has a specific policy to stop this unacceptable, many times, social intake in terms of universities. The next issue has to do with too many tears about technological education. tears on tears for technological education, one of the pillars of higher education, etc. We have politics, tears for that we don't have. Instead of tears, can you tell us your policy? What exactly do you say about technological education? Don't tell me it needs to be upgraded. Forty years we've all been saying the same thing. How will it be upgraded? On what terms will it be upgraded? On what terms will it be linked to the local society and the economy? These are the challenging questions. We know that the same thing was heard in August. Do you remember August's panic when the tertiary education law was passed? That they'll collapse, that we're not in favor of excellence, that one, the other. And everything went fine and it was fine. Fortunately, the word 'excellence' has not been heard here, and again we do not believe in excellence. Because, for us, this is excellence. The excellence is to reward all these academics who lifted up the upgrade of TEIs, their de facto university, multiple departments, and the people at the university who opened their ears and saw the theme of TEIs. We must also welcome situations where for the first time there is agreement between the universities and the TEI. This in a society means new consensus, new dynamics and new types of academic reclassifications. So we in the single area of education and research last year, as we said in the framework of the national dialogue on education, said that there are academic criteria, that the de facto universitying of some must be rewarded, that those sections which are in the interim must be helped and some must close their historical circle. This does not mean, however, an "ATHENA" project does not mean "the two feet in the same shoe", as was done by this incredible conception of "orthodoxisation" - in many introductory forms - of the departments. And of course, I would like some in this Chamber to be very careful. Do you know that the two TEIs, Athens and Piraeus, are at the general meeting of ELIDEK and you know that they are at the general meeting of ELIDEK because they managed to have a huge number of research projects? Therefore, respect for those who took de facto on their back, I insist, upgrade TEIs. And of course, as you know, we said that there would be a committee to see the criteria with which other sections of the TEIs could obtain doctoral qualifications, give them the right to doctors. That's the committee. Last Thursday, the event was filed at the TEI Rectors' Synod. We also said that what is to be done would be done with consultation from the bottom. That is why we have academic committees in Ionia, Epirus, Western Greece, Thessaly and Central Greece. Through the discussions that are taking place in these committees, we then take the political decisions. The same was done at the University of Western Attica. For six months the committee met with academic criteria - more academically, it did not - with agreements and disagreements and came to a proposal. So were the constituencies of the two institutions, and so was the public debate. What's the responsibility of the Ministry? To make political decisions with academic criteria, not political decisions with 'blacks' criteria. And I don't have anything against the shivles, as you understand. I am sorry, ladies and gentlemen, to see you being a little upset about this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u45	They need this too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u46	They certainly also need these, but only if you establish with academic criteria, there will be local financial support. On the contrary, you lose the academic, you lose the economy, as it has so far. So the upgrade...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u47	Well, don't get to the point where we can open a souvellous store, want a IP degree.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u48	Mr President, I would like to assure you, Mr President-in-Office, that that is still not the case. You know, it's the third bill, which starts the conversation with my colleague, I'd say, Mr. Kaklamani, so we'll be fine, as in the rest! Technology education, let's know, won't upgrade metaphysically. It won't be upgraded because some people keep saying it. It will be upgraded with younger teaching staff, with the new posts we give, with new curricula, new research programmes and upgraded with the reclassification of cognitive fields. The cognitive fields of science and science are in constant negotiation with the scientific community, with society in general, with their history. So each time, such things substantially upgrade technological education. Now, I won't say how much things we've taken into consideration. I insist that we discuss this very thoroughly. I think it should at least be acknowledged that the draft law was not discussed either in the urgent procedure or in the urgency procedure. There have been four committees, so many days in consultation, infinite proposals, public articles, bodies, with which they have been discussed, and it goes on to say. There is a proposal from the Technical Chamber, which we incorporate in terms of engineering diplomas, five-year-old level 7 and four-year-old level 6 of the European qualification scale and one specific amendment, which we are tabling. As far as professional rights are concerned - be careful! - No one's hurt - but no one! - A professional right for those who graduated. However, I would also like us to be very honest in the game that has been played with professional rights again, with the promises in general and vaguely of professional rights. The result? Let the SYRIZA government come and realize that half of the four hundred twenty-three parts throughout Greece do not have professional rights! Tell me all these years what you've done. Should we tell you what we've been doing in the past few months? For the first time, a joint committee was set up by specialisation, involving teachers from the polytechnics and teachers from the TEIs, diplomats and graduate engineers. It's never happened before. They have already completed their fourth meeting and are going very well. If we are able to take this step together on the professional rights of engineers, I think that it finally opens a door, which was also opened by Minister Anagnastopoulou, while she was at the Ministry. Know that our goal is not to save money. The rationalisation of the institutions is not equivalent to the savings of money. The rationalisation of the functioning of the institutions is equivalent to the upgrading. And we know that educational reform, without material resources, without investment, is not possible without more money. And it is no coincidence that this thing is doing it now that we know that the country has turned around. All this on voting, on one hand, on the other, I think they underestimate the speakers, whom I have followed very carefully, and I know their high level. Don't get carried away from easy solutions! Before I speak on the other topics, I would like to thank publicly the great help that Professor Bratakos as Rector of the Athens TEI, Professor Vryzidis as Rector of Piraeus TEI and Mr Moutzouris, from the pioneers, former Rector of the National Technical University of Athens, who had first put the theme of the polytechnic with TEI on the table for ten years. I say this because it is important in our society that we do not care for civil war cultures, but for consensual cultures, to which I shall return. We must also stress - something that has been somewhat forgotten - what the Scientific Committee of Parliament says. The Scientific Committee of the Parliament on Friday - her report has been made public - considers the initiative excellent and therefore, in relation to whatever legal means it means in terms of the University of Western Attica. With regard to the two-year curriculum, there is a huge problem of post-training in Greece today. It's not ours. It's one of the infinite things we need to solve. Children should have basic choices when they finish High School III. You know that upgrading vocational education is one of the most important issues that we have promoted, along with the issue of apprenticeship, for which Mr Baxvanakis will also speak to us. The two-year courses, which will be in universities and TEIs, are first introduced in Greece. This will enable professional certificates of European qualifications directly, with the completion of a curriculum in these two years' time, which will be truly very upgraded academically. I say this and I have no sign of irony towards the KKE, but you yourself say that we have to do everything in our power to get children jobs. But will they find jobs in socialist businesses? I don't understand that. We say, then, that the two years will also be two years with the business operators, with the productive operators, to ensure precisely those needs that exist. You used to say "at the cheap labour force apprenticeship". You're disgusted. You said the kids work for free without insurance. None of this is true. So here we have to talk about healthy businesses, because they will also create jobs, which must also be created for these people. There was a technical issue here, which we are curing, which was related to how many PSA children will enter the university under founded, since the TEIs were 20%. You know, we said 5% all over Greece. It was a proposal made to us by Mr Andriano and a proposal by Mr Katsiki. With the calculations we made, especially for this year, for the University of West Attica will be 8%. If you put 5% in total and 8% in the University of West Attica, we really have a very serious increase in our children in the PES. We do so generously, because we believe that these children are not "children of a lower god", as they proved last year by the results of the Greek examinations. The National Math Coordinating Body is a new institution that we create. Mr. Baxvanakis will speak to you about it. Let us come to the subject of compulsory fourteen-year-old education and two-year-old pre-school education. The Greek society for decades has a state claim: to create serious and reliable, but also effective educational structures. But we know that the most difficult thing is not in education reform. The most difficult is the transition period to reach the goal. The objective, which always has a visionary element, cannot be achieved unless there is a serious and well-trained transition period. Here, then, we say that in three years' time, two years' pre-school education will be compulsory within the framework of the compulsory fourteen-year education of our country's children. It's a time-consuming request from our teachers, from our teachers, from many parts of society. Finally, let's all be brave about this thing. Do we want it? Yes or no? No 'yes, but'. If we want to, let's see how we go. If we do not want it - and there are bodies that have said they do not want it - it is much more honest to say: 'I do not want the two-year-old, I do not want the fourteen-year-old', than to say 'yes, but it is not done' and it goes on to say 'yes'. This is an issue in which we do not have the tolerance of footnotes. There is no 'yes, but'. Is this going to create a shrinking of children's stations? So I challenge you to bring me the numbers, because our numbers say that this will lead to an increase in nurseries. Nowadays there are thousands of kids left outside the junior stations. Thus, the participation of nurses will increase, children's stations will increase. Of course, it makes no sense to say 'alpha' and to say 'alpha minus'. I have been challenging both the Central Association of Municipalities and others for their data to be communicated to us. We have notified our own evidence and have no contradiction that there are empty positions, that there are children left out. Why is that? I do not want such an important issue to be overshadowed by any logic of'scandalology'. It's numbers. In figures, I think we can't all agree. That is why we have proposed to the Central Association of Municipalities, as well as to the Teacher Federation, as to other bodies, that we sit down and all agree on numbers. There can be no disagreement in the figures. We'll agree on the numbers. Our numbers say what we said. If there are others, we'll see how we deal with it. We will say, 'children, so many numbers are, so we are going to a transitional period which, in any case, will be the compulsory fourteen-year-old education'. You know many people - and you have no reason to know it - that they are already in many places two-year-old kindergarten. We're not the first to bring two-year-old kindergartens. They're fifty-two thousand children in two-year-old kindergartens, because parents have made this choice. There are day-to-day kindergartens. We are therefore saying that there should be two-year-old kindergarten in general, because there is a social policy and more to be done in the logic and objective of compulsory schooling. It's two different ways of thinking, two different policies. We say, then, that through a draft we have been working on, parts of which we have discussed in committee, we will manage to complete the conditions for two-year compulsory education and we will manage to have more kindergartens, more people working in kindergartens and, of course, kindergarteners, who will have the sole responsibility of these two classes of kindergarten. I'm coming to the subject of the relocations.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u49	Minister, this closes your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u50	You're right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u51	It's interesting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u52	Look, the more fertile ground than specs for the transcripts doesn't exist. I'd like everyone to be translated. But it can't be. That is why we said: there is a very serious social problem. There are families with many children - two, three children - who are in different cities. A government cannot close its eyes to a social problem. We say: no family will sustain, except for its own, and another home. And as far as families are concerned, children will come where the families live. This leaves out a serious category of citizens: families who have low incomes and have a child. We can't anticipate that. This is also provided for in the translations. That is why, by letter sent on Friday to the heads of political parties, I would ask each party to write down to the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, concrete proposals on the subject of translations in general, if we can make a law, which will be a decision of all the parties, looking at all the parameters, we are drafting for it. I'm done. I will come back for both prison schools and much more. I don't really want to abuse the President's tolerance. The rapporteur of the New Democracy spoke about overcoming its party. I welcome, not the issue of overcoming, but the attempt of the political parties to create a climate of consensus. A climate of consensus doesn't mean that everyone agrees to everything. Rapid consensus means conflict coexistence. But coexistence. So here, in fact - and she is a bad speaker, as you have heard it - the questions have been repeated in committee too. But we have answers. Others are not so convincing, perhaps, the answers. What makes me a terrible impression, however, is the placement of the representative of the Democratic Alliance. I felt that we were talking about four meetings of the committee, and we heard other meetings now. I don't want to comment on it. I understand that there are problems and different views within the parties. But it takes a great deal of attention, and the agreements also have a way of reaching conclusions. When we have such changes, I don't understand it. I'm done with two things. Mrs Keramou said that I have many times - not me, our government, also personified it a little - two huge problems. One is that every time I take the opportunity, when I don't want to answer,
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u53	I did not say 'problems'. Tactical.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u54	Right, tactics. So he said that when I don't want to answer, I say how complex problems are. It's a bad thing not to want to answer, but don't underestimate the complexity of the problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u55	You come to my talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u56	Unless for SYRIZA problems are more complex than for the New Democracy. However, the problems are very complex, and that is why it is very important to reach agreement on these problems. The second thing that has been said is that I see shocks and consents everywhere. I think saying that the glass is permanently half full gives us a hope in the way of political culture and how this political culture will take us all a step forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u57	Thank you. I let the Minister speak with tolerance, because he gave food for the Members' placements. In your dentistry, Minister, I, too, would like to hear how a regulation in the draft concerning the well-known problem of the dentistry schools of the country was withdrawn in the final draft. You will allow me, the first six Members, that is, the Members. Sevastakis, Koutsoubas, Kremastinos, Gregos, Tassos and Papakostas, because at 15.00, Mr. Kremastinos should replace me in the Chair, give him the floor, because he couldn't otherwise speak. Immediately afterwards, we will go to the order you heard and then the Deputy Minister, Mr. Fotakis, will speak. Mr. Kremastein, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u58	Mr President, Minister, a few years ago, another Minister of Education brought law to the House and upgraded the TEIs to higher institutions. After a while, he found that many - if not most - teachers had no doctoral thesis. The doctoral thesis, as you know, is the key element with which you can understand the position of a university assistant or a lecturer. So what did he do? He brought a second law that said that up to a certain limit they could do a doctoral thesis. That's the story. Today we bring another law and say the TEIs are called universities. Really, the Metsovio Polytechnic, which is one of the three institutions of Greece, which is internationally known and accepted, is not a university? What is the meaning of the university and who are being upgraded to the university? Is teachers, students, workers upgraded? What's he gonna say, university? The OECD says, Minister, that we are champions of unemployed graduates. Do you know what that means? It means those taking the degree can't find a job. And you know that the international criteria for university evaluation are two basic. One is the new knowledge, which produces the university, i.e. the university is not a teaching institution, where, as in primary school, a good teacher transfers knowledge. The university must produce new knowledge, which is accepted by all over the world, by all universities and promote science. Universities, therefore, which do not produce knowledge, according to the international assessment, are not considered as universities. And the second, which they take into account, is the absorption of their graduates from the market. Because when you have a degree, for example, from a university, which doesn't exist on the international list, what can this afflicted graduate do, who is going to ask for a job? It is therefore a fundamental and necessary point when we say a university, to ensure these two basic things. And I ask: Germany has sixteen, seventeen universities with eight times the population. Is Greece entitled to have forty with a sub-eight-fold population? Also, I would like to ask: how many of these forty do people know? So don't get me wrong, but from the circulating universities in the Attica region, only Metsovio and the National Kapodistrian, if I'm not mistaken - and disprove me if I'm wrong - are on international lists and production lines. What do we give these children? Are we giving them an unemployment degree? Because all the time they've been studying, they've been baking themselves up with the idea that they'll get a work degree and not an unemployment degree. Is that what we're giving them? So, should the doctor go and find a place - I'm saying it because I'm a doctor - in North Scotland and think he's being upgraded? To go and invite him to teach at a university. This is the offer of a European country. Instead of seeking quality, we seek anything else that I do not have time to analyse. How many Greek universities - for example Piraeus, the Agronomic - which are, in any case, schools, are not universities? The Medical School could also be called a medical university and cardiology could be a special field and all specialties. They're not universities. It's schools that exist in the university called Kapodistrian University. That's how our universities should be structured. I would, Minister, make a commission on how the universities will be upgraded so that they can go before 100 seats. The best, Mr. Javarra, our university, the NRP is around in position 450, in position 480 in international rankings. To go to position 280, go to position 180. But how is he going to be in position 180? Don't we need infrastructure? Don't we need money? But when we open in width and not in depth, how is it possible to develop our education? These are, I think, the main questions that should concern everyone, regardless of the party. Unfortunately, however, mentality continues. And it is marginal, because I do not exclude the space I come from, and that also gives more value to what I say, because otherwise it would not have the same value. We are not coming here to criticise and say New Democracy is worse than PASOK or KKE or the alpha or beta party. We're coming to say some truths, so people can hear. So that should be the objective: Quality improvement, quality search and not anything that is related to any other party transaction. Since my time is running out, I have to say that what will characterize us is what we will do tomorrow. And tomorrow is not visible. Why tell me how this space, now called TEI, will evolve, which I told you how they were upgraded and how they are evolving today, tomorrow? Does anyone know? What about these graduates, who's the third to a number of students this university? At least I raise my hands. [[This is where the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing.]] From there, of course, the future will show and we must say that we should not follow the attitude of the Jesuit monks who, when they wanted to eat meat, called the fish meat and thought they were eating fish, but actually eat meat. For, Minister, unfortunately, it applies to all education, of course, what the world says 'or the globe is a turbulence or a mistake'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u59	Mr Dimitrios Sevastakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. It is a pity that I come to Stepma after the Minister and after a well-known and well-known academic, such as Mr. Kremastinos, who has a reasonable criticism. [[Mr DIMITRIOS KRIMASTINOS]] I should like to remind him that when enlargement took place, the opening up of higher education institutions in the 1980s with the framework law - I think it was finally adopted - while it was seemingly a quantitative, multiplier gesture, yet the educational institutions of quality reached and, in a way, became more democratic, the cognitive reserve, that is to say, the dispersal of the cognitive stock in much more social layers. This was a beneficial function, even though there has always been the agony that graduates can't find a job in their cognitive objects. Today, this is a little overdue criticism. Because there is a wide phenomenon, the wide phenomenon of interdisciplinaryity, where a cognitive trunk is crossed by another and at the end the new productive objects, which are much more complex, much more complex and are constantly reconstructed, have other types of academic requirements. The second point I would like to make is that a bill does not order quality. It's not a quality command. Quality is formed within the daily life of institutions, which already have a strong spiritual mobility, reconstituting, redefining cognitive territories, redefining the raw material, which is recommended by higher education institutions, which means that the draft law can make an initial design, but it is the teaching act that will make this design understandable and inspire. So that is the second point. I'm going to make a third observation. Part of the criticism is based on the fact that the arrangements do not relate to the supervision of the intellectual objects at issue, but the arrangements actually listen to pressures from various branches, of different specialties. On the other hand, there is a criticism that not all the specialities in the Committee on Educational Affairs had been invited, which was not possible because of their quantity. In other words, the draft, as if it were about welding a sum of cognitive objects and therefore sectoral dominances. It is not like that, and we must not interpret it like that. The composition of objects is the word we need to see. This word must be adopted, Minister, and after you have received linguistic suggestions, I propose it to you. The démarche is the composition, i.e. the newly produced quality, which will exist from the dynamic complexion and composition of institutions, objects and physiognostics, people who teach and manage institutions. In this sense, with a view to the future, we must allow the institution to take its initial steps. I'm sure they'll get into trouble. Every regulation, every major piece of legislation is giving rise to problems. However, the state and the political system, if it has intelligence - which has it, I think - even if it is well-meaning, can resolve them along the way. There are some flagrant choices within the bill to be discussed. It doesn't make any sense to report them. Both the rapporteurs and the majority rapporteur, Mr Skourikos and the Minister have already been mentioned. What I want to highlight and insist on is this qualitative change resulting from the composition. You were a little inconsistent, Minister. You used the term "reclassification" of objects. It is not exactly a reclassification, and you said'reconstruction' in the Committee on Forestry. It's reconstruction. Reclassification is the second point, which can be...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u61	I said it, let me see if you're looking out for me!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u62	Yes, of course, I am looking after you and weighing everything that power says and we must do that. After all, we are critical of power. In this respect, therefore, the part concerning the fact that cognitive objects must also reconstruct their content and find a content in production, but also in the spirit shell, in which they operate and enrich it, I would like to say that this is the potential element, in which I would like us to insist rather than remain in the anguish of various groups or different hypotheses, which, moreover, no welding can extinct them. What she finds, what is founded on a cognitive region is her own truth, its own strength, and also the quality of the people and communities that teach it. The latter becomes a little more targeted. In the 1980s, I think that in dean of Demostanis Kokkinides at the School of Fine Arts, there had been a great debate on the three poles, which should constitute artistic studies, that is, purely artistic, artistic, the polo of theory and the polo of the applications of optics. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Allow me, Mr President, to conclude in a minute. The School of Fine Arts has two sections, thankfully. There is the art department, which is very rich, active and active and has the newly founded theory department, which produces art theorists. Today, I have the impression that what the School of Fine Arts had dreamed about in the Mytaric and in the Cokeside during the 1980 ’ s, a more dense pole of applications, is being formed. In other words, the university will essentially compose objects, such as graphics, interior decoration, maintenance, various artistic actions and unify them. It remains, Minister, the communication of the foundations. We've said it before. Nice objects, fine territories. How the Higher Education Institutions themselves are connected - I am in favour of this diversity, which commands them and is located on Greek territory - strengthens their quality. The rating upgrade of the University of the Aegean last year suggests this. I think the bet's in front of us, and I think we have all the tools to win it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, too. Mr Koutsoubas, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that there should be no doubt in this Chamber today, but also in those who attended the committee meetings, that the Qualified Opposition, New Democracy, has demonstrated, as always in the debate on this bill, that it respects and honors its institutional role as a Dedicated Opposition within a parliamentary democracy. She has done her duties wisely and diligently, trying positively or critically toward the bill to make those speeches or proposals for the sake of education which - I think - are common purpose for all of us. I think that no one doubts - and we must say this - that if this tactical, which the New Democracy, Minister and fellow Members have followed in today's bill, were the predecessors of opposition, then in the past years, education, certainly, and the country would be on better roads than we are today. But it has always been negative, contrary to any attempt to reform in every area in this place. We, then, are not negative, we are not populists, we are not zero, and we say yes to those positive points that promote - if you like - education, they promote the country's progress. With regard to the bill under discussion, it is true that rationalization is required in the country's academic map and is in the right direction. What scares us most is whether this planning, this initiative on the part of the ministry and the government is carried out in a rough manner without planning, without having what you want, programmes and infrastructures to achieve. We hope that within this transitional period it will be possible to correct things. I'm going to stand by a few points in the bill. I do not know whether they have escaped attention or I must point them out in order to correct them. I am not going to use the terms'revolution of competence' and'removal of the self-employed'. I think it would be extreme. I would say, however, that the powers given by this bill to the Minister, not only to you, are an intervention in the self-employed. I would like to mention one of the first speeches. We are talking about an extension of the term of office of the Management Committee and for two consecutive times. I don't know if that's legal, illegal, or irregular, or normal, I'd say. But at least set out what should be the length of the extension at any time of the Management Committee. Secondly, I do not know why the legislator, we here, should set to the professor how many times he will - and there should be a word in the bill for clarification - compulsory examination, and not leave this right to primary, secondary, tertiary, test or whether he should be one - how exactly do you say it? - At least. I think this paragraph needs clarification. The third point concerns the PCA students, I believe that, following the intervention of Mr Andrianos and our rapporteur and all the members of the committee, this correction is in the right direction. The other point I wanted to raise - and I think it will be your flag in the election - are student relocations. I would like to remind you that in 2012 some of us then headed for the student's relocations for families with two students. Of course, some obstacles have been found along the way. You do not, however, only have social sensitivity. We had moved on from 2012. It is right to correct it, and of course we welcome it. Finally, Minister, you are giving me the opportunity from this step today to say that I thought you were referring to us, saying - obviously at the edge of your speech - that we do not want to have universities with savages. I thought you were referring to Leivadia because we're famous for souvlaki. Of course, we don't want universities to sell socks. I know. But listen. You give me the moral and political right following this legislative initiative on the establishment of a University of Western Attica and after the debate we have had in the relevant committees on linking education to production, I would ask you, Minister, once again, to have the total transfer of the Agricultural University to Alarto. There is its headquarters in Copaida, where there is infrastructure, cultivation areas, which have all the necessary resources to operate as a Agricultural University towards the farmer, to have education, production and development. Because this is how we make a better rational distribution of universities in the country. In conclusion, I would like to say that I am pleased, for my part, that every time parliamentary democracy works in this House and is trying to listen to each other. And I'm glad, why are students listening to us, and I have a student's son asking me, "Why can't you agree to these many things?" - to which we can show - and we show it today to the new generation - that we can agree on the positive. As long as you too did it on your part every time and when you're in this position, as an Opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, too. The speaker of the Golden Dawn, Mr Gregos, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. We are talking about a bill of great importance, since it concerns education, the responsibility of the Ministry of Education. The education of all levels has also been subjected to critical blows by this government: cutbacks, deterioration, constant changes that dismantle the economic planning of students and their families, unacceptable facilities from study areas to rooms and workshops. In all of this, the unacceptable institution of eternal students and, of course, the institution of university asylum. I have mentioned many times in this dreadful institution, which serves the interests of certain groups. We are all aware of what university asylum means: asylum of terrorists, robbers, drug addicts, drug traffickers, tramp asylum of all kinds and the moratorium of every criminal element. All these, of course, are the so-called 'Romanian student movement' for the Minister. It is anger and indignation that this suppressed institution, which does not exist in any civilised state and in any educational institution. In a sensitive area such as the West Attica, the only certainty is that all these phenomena will dominate again. Degradation of diplomas, anxiocracy, disobedience to excellence are characteristic of this government, causing, at the same time, students and parents anguish and insecurity, but also a danger to their physical integrity. The SYRIZA Memorandum of Understanding - ANEL continuously reduces funds for education, systematically vote and imposes a regime of undividedness and degradation. It's typical, and the difference with military schools or police schools, which is why many candidates prefer these schools. For this draft law, we have received a great deal of mail with the operators' positions and suggestions, but also many letters from students and parents, which will certainly have to be taken into account until the draft is passed. I mention, for example, the Association of Independent Preschool Teachers, Rectors' Synod, Association of Environmental and Engineers, Teaching Federation of Greece, Association of Dental Departments, Association of Baby Nursemen, Association of Educational Technicians, Higher Confederation of Multitude Greeks, Panhellenic Association of Forests of Public Employees, Association of Greek Researchers, Association of Graduates of Musical Studies, Association of Nursing and Nursing Greek Nurses. We also had too many letters, which I shall be tabling on the Minutes, and I hope they will reach the Minister's hands until the meeting is closed. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Antony Gregos, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letters, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would like to go into the bill in detail, but it is not enough time. See the memos, as our special speaker said before, as well as the letters I wrote. I hope they reach your hands. And while you want to establish a University of Western Attica, the school of Munich is at risk of being lost, a subject that has become known and has been raised in the Committee of Greeks of the Diaspora. Of course, this committee does not have legislative power and the relevant ministries continue to be indifferent. For Article 32, with which you insult the Orthodox faith, I will inform you that you will not succeed much, since it is also deeply rooted in our youth. Also, you do not achieve anything with your left propaganda in the educational institutions of all levels. We are also looking at parents and expelling such practices. I shall refer to a very important issue, but it also relates to the responsibility of the Ministry of Education. I am talking about reducing the disability rate of autism leading to thousands of children being exterminated by autism. A relevant question has been tabled by the competitor, Helen Zarulia. I'm filing her, too, if we can get an answer. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Antony Gregos, presents for the minutes the above question, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So, with this very serious issue, with the autism allowance for children, what is the following: When the committee's opinion is being reviewed, they will now be able to say that the autism rate is 60% or 65% and therefore the allowance will be interrupted. If the child is under seven years old, he has received a life-long rate and no review has been set, then they will call again parents and the child when it is seven years old for review. They will be able to characterise the child as 65% or 60% or 55% or 50% and stop the allowance. If the child is over seven years old, he has a life-long rate and no review has been set, they will call it again when he or she is seventeen years old to carry out a review. If the child is over seventeen years old, the new law, as it is today, has ensured equality. But that's not gonna last long. But if it is consolidated, that is, if there are no lawsuits, you will make a new law in one or two years and you will call on all the over seventeen years to cut those benefits as well. Don't look at it statically and statistically. This was done to cut benefits, as I said before. At first, some allowances will be maintained for the very heavy disabilities and they will slowly be cut off by more and more until everything is cut off. That's your plan. Parents should be informed and they should all sue. To appeal to the UN Court of Human Rights, not the European Union. One in fifty children is born with autism. By analogy, in Greece, there are about a hundred and fifty thousand with two thousand children in the range of autism. In serious and developed countries, all these children are entitled to an allowance. In Greece, children who receive a allowance are barely only ten thousand. Autism is a disability. Some children belonging to the spectrum of autism may be small minds, but all these autistic people have communication problems and cannot be integrated into society as a whole or professionally. They're people who can't live autonomously. You've reduced the parallel support in schools, cut the benefits. It's really embarrassing and disgraceful! You're throwing these kids away. For the first time, in a so-called democratic country, you are cutting autism benefits. This was attempted by the Hungarian Government at some point in 2008 and did not pass. The trick, to cut the benefits completely, is as follows: Set a limit to measure the disability of autism. Until now those who had autism have had a certified disability from 67% to 80% and now you want to measure a disability that cannot be measured. If that happens, it will result from unscientific and arbitrary. It is impossible, as I said before, to measure autism. That is why in the civilised countries where human rights are concerned, those belonging to the range of autism, are obliged to go up to 67%. Your inventions are to cut off, as I said before, illegally the benefits. Do you know, gentlemen, how much is it that families with children in the range of autism, costs to make their children more operational and to be able to integrate them in society as a minimum? And you, not only are depriving of parallel support in society, but with courage and illegally wanting to cut those benefits too. Involved in this abolition of autism allowances, it is both the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Social Solidarity and, of course, the Ministry of Finance. This is the result of the third memorandum signed by two hundred and twenty-one Members. For the first time in history, human rights have been abolished and fundamental rights such as health have been abolished for the sake of memoranda. This abortion was voted on at one night in secret, and it was scattered into three different legislations for good reason. Affliction to lower the minimum autism rate to cut benefits and to undo the lifelong rate and life-long diagnosis. What right did you do that with? Autism is life-threatening and is not cured. To bring in an amendment, let us also be late, even in this bill, which undoes all this, and we shall vote on it. We're not talking about injustice, but about a brutality worthy of your sensitivity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, too. Mr Tassos, Member of the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in this bill and in terms of research, much of it is devoted to the creation of ethics committees. In other words, we are called upon to lay moral standards in the investigation conducted under the capitalist system. I'll start at the end: the capitalist system. What is the capitalist system from our own, Marxist, materialistic dialectic view? It is all the social productive relations that express capitalist production and the domination of the bourgeoisie towards the working class. In this context, it is natural that the exploitation of human beings, the use of the achievements of science and research to the benefit of the bourgeoisie, such as research on human resources management, i.e. research on manipulation and subjection of workers to the needs of capitalist production and profit maximisation, or research on the needs of NATO imperialists. Such an assumption of the moral concept would make it difficult for society to accept universality, especially from the oppressed, the workers and the populace. So capitalism resorts to the idealistic, religious concept of morality, which claims that moral principles and rules stand above history and come out of it, from God, from an absolute idea, from abstract conscience, etc. Because if he accepted the dialectical materialistic conception, he should admit that his ethics is the product of his own production relationships. In our materialistic dialectical perception, science, research, philosophy, politics, religion, art, morality are forms of social consciousness, which are the ideological foundation on the economic base of society and change when its base changes, i.e. production relations. Any change in people’s consciousness or the evolution of their morality cannot arbitrarily be made by themselves. The origin and direction of any change must have - and always has - its basis in material life, in the needs of social, economic development and it is always inseparable from social development. There is no eternal nature of man, the source of morality. In fact, the nature of man depends on social relations. With the change of economic conditions, social relations are also changing in their extension. People change their nature, change their perceptions, habits, as well as their moral rules. What in some times of history is seen as moral, in others is considered immoral. Describing examples are cannibalism, the habit of killing old people, slavery, group marriage. With the development of society, all of this has ceased to correspond to the thinking and feelings of the people who have formed themselves in the new social conditions. Marxism has shown that every historical era, a primitive Community system, a slave system, feudalism, capitalism, has its own dominating morality. Marxist morality makes no rules, nor seeks their source to man's eternal nature. It draws on the moral rules of society "is" of the people it examines in accordance with the laws of social development. It interprets, because in the historical times given, these principles and rules of conduct dominate, because they also change, revealing the internal legality of moral progress, which goes correspondingly with the progress of society. He denies dogmatism and considers it useless and dangerous to describe morals simply. So the exploitation of human beings and the research that serves this relationship, in capitalism, is the only unnecessarily moral value, while it is absolutely immoral to socialism - communism. Marx and Engels laid the foundations for scientific research on ethics. They showed the classic void and hypocritical character of urban morality and made the beginning of the theoretical processing of the revolutionary morality of workers and popular strata. In this context, the ethics of scientific research can be no more than the research it serves, firstly, the knowledge of the laws of the movement of nature and society and secondly, the application of these laws to meet the expanded needs of society and not, as is done in capitalism, to maximize profit and to continue to subject labour order to urban and the needs of capitalist production. As you can understand from what I said earlier, we cannot vote positively for the creation of committees that serve idealist, capitalist morality in general and research in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, too. The Deputy Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr. Fotakis, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to point out to Mr Tassos that I would really like us to have the opportunity - unfortunately it is not today - to discuss the issues of Marxism, morality and research. I understand, however, that what you are telling us is that we are first waiting for production relations to change, first that social change should be made and then that we should lay the ethical rules down.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u71	I said we can't see it positively.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u72	It's not about society, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u73	Okay. You're right. Ladies and gentlemen, I will focus on the research issues, starting with the point that after many years of immobilisation, the research landscape in the country has changed. This is reflected in the more than doubled public spending on research over the last three years, the opening up, after a seven-year drought, of new posted teachers at the IOIs and in the research centres of the country, the establishment of the EMI and the Business Participation Fund, the EquiFund. Featuredly, the General Secretariat's regular budget from 60 million in 2015 increased to 117 million in 2017, with a forecast of 130 million in 2018. I am tabling this budget for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister, Mr Constantine Fotakis, presents for the minutes the above budget, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In addition, payments from the GDR's Public Investment Programme increased from 97 million in 2014 to 157 million in 2017, with a forecast of 206 million in 2018. Similarly, the percentage of total research expenditure in the country, I am pleased to announce - since this final percentage has been announced today by the National Documentation Centre - that for the first time over 1% - it has not been near, it has exceeded it! - which, in absolute numbers, corresponds to an increase of between 1,48 billion in 2014 to 1,76 billion in 2016, with significant participation by both the public and private sectors. This, according to the data of the National Documentation Centre. More generally, total government appropriations for research and development reached levels higher than those before the crisis in 2016, at levels higher than in 2009. At this point I would like to submit the data from the National Documentation Centre for the Practices. [[At this point the Deputy Minister, Mr Constantine Fotakis, presents for the minutes the above figures, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Parliament Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] And all this has happened in conditions of deep economic crisis, where research, as a rule, is the easiest objective. At the same time, a series of legislation and institutional interventions which have taken place over the last three years have made the research environment attractive to young scientists, creating opportunities for quality research and prospects for a scientific career in the country's Higher Education Institutions and Research Centres. Also, actions designed to enrich knowledge-intensive executive potential, focusing on R&D sections, are expected to attract new scientists and strengthen innovative entrepreneurship. The result of these interventions is the first pale, but tangible, of reversing the one-sided fleeing abroad, of reversing the ‘brain drain’. Data are now becoming measurable, quantitative, at least for scientists with a high degree of expertise. And I come to specific provisions of the bill. As far as Article 20(1) and (2) is concerned, there have been objections there in the discussions in the Committee on Forums for Generalisation, namely the inclusion of all research bodies in the scope of the law governing research centres supervised by the Secretariat-General for Research and Technology. This would indeed be an idealistic case, an euphemism, but unrealistic situation, even if there was consensus from the relevant ministries where these research centres belong. The reason is very simple: the administrative structures that exist and the scientific culture prevailing in different research centres differ considerably and make the success of such a project questionable. On the contrary, a case-by-case and step-by-step approach, as provided for by the regulations in the draft law, has a much greater chance of success. So this is done for the Benacio Plant Health Institute and the "ELGO - PIMITRA". For the new Institute of Astrophysics at the FORTH much has been said during the previous meetings. Clearly it is about the natural evolution of an island of excellence, such as the activity of Astrophysics in Crete. Similarly, the establishment of the Institute of Political Sciences in the CRP corrects a distorted combination that had been made in the past, thus facilitating the administrative operation of the Centre and its scientific scope. I would now like to refer to the criticism of the Minister's role in defining the members of the Sectoral Scientific Councils, TSEs, and the manipulation of the EMI. These are paragraphs 10 and 11 of Article 20. Here I must remind you that TS are advisory bodies assisting the work of the ESRB, the National Research and Innovation Council. Before the law of investigation, Mr. L. 4386, the members of TEs chose them and appointed them arbitrarily by a simple ministerial decision. With the n. 4386 the members of the TS are proposed by the Minister and approved by the EESC. In the regulations of this draft law, what is being done is that their formal definition procedure is mentioned. So where is arbitraryness? And I'm coming to ELIDEK. The establishment of the ELIDEC was a key achievement derived from these initiatives. The ELIDEK today operates as an institution, as a kind of independent research authority, where the scientific community itself forms the research landscape. This is an unprecedented project in the country that faces great challenges, since it has started to function since zero and, of course, requires - other practical issues - the development of an appropriate culture. According to all the messages we have, the ELIDEK has already been accepted by the vast majority of the academic and research community. Never before - I stress this - such support from national research resources had not been given to the research bodies in the country. Obviously, there are difficulties and obviously there is a need for corrective action. Of course, despite all this, the ELIDEK continues its course, building conditions of transparency and confidence. The proposed legislation also contributes to this. The possibility of planning action by the Minister of State, was also a criticism, referred to as an inconsistent Ministerial intervention. However, the programming of actions continues to take place by 31 October of each year for the following year. If this is not the case, the Minister is taking action to ensure that the Foundation operates properly. Besides, the planning of actions is prerequisites for the loan contract with the European Investment Bank before any disbursement and any delays put the institution at risk. So where is the ministerial arbitrary? With regard to the supposed manipulation of ELIDEK by the Minister, what I would like to emphasise once again is that the role of the state is purely supervisory and not interventionist. The State shall supervise and ensure the Foundation's proper functioning, having the right to cease members of the Scientific Council for activities incompatible with its capacity as members. By analogy, such supervision is carried out by the Minister responsible and for members of the Republican authorities of PIO or for presidents of research centres. Is there manipulation there too? Of course, there is always the question: If our intention was to manipulate the ELIDEK, why should the whole fuss of its creation become an independent institution? It could well be a new structure under the Minister or under the General Secretariat. In fact, I would remind you that this was the proposal of the Officerial Response when it came to voting on the ELIDEEC law. So let them tell us what they want after all. Finally, I will make some comments on the provisions relating to ethics and ethics in research. This issue is being opened for the first time in the country in a systematic and structured way. It concerns establishing rules and procedures relating to human dignity, privacy, personal data and respect for the environment in the conduct of scientific research. The importance of these issues is expected to become even greater in the future, since the technological challenges that are emerging - and these really raise issues like what Mr Tassos said - such as, for example, the so-called 'fourth Industrial Revolution' that determines how industrial production is to be done or sectors such as medical precision, based on the analysis of the human genome, impose new considerations on ethical and ethical issues, which are still not fully predictable. The state, with these provisions, takes a timely initiative to be ready to deal with the new environment that will be formed. In other words, the state provides instead of simply following developments. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to end by pointing out that education and research have a dynamically evolving character. Respectively dynamic and not static are the challenges that are being created. The state must monitor them and more actively participate in this process. The legislative arrangements proposed, resulting from developments or still ahead of them. The bill to be passed is a decisive step in this direction. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u74	Thank you too, Mr. Fotakis. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-three students and schoolchildren and three educational attendants from the 2nd Kilkis High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The reason for this is the independent Member, Mr Papakostas, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u75	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing this draft law under a particular atmosphere. At the moment there are new challenges for the political system and for the country. Of course, here is absolutely what Albert Camy said about the challenges, particularly the quality and evaluation of our work: "Don't wait on the day of the crisis. It comes every day'. And he was absolutely right! The people's awareness of our work, ladies and gentlemen, is the crisis and the assessment that is daily. And no one needs to wait any day of the crisis to do a proper, quality job and to produce such a work that really in people's consciousness, in the conscience of the citizens to be judged as worthwhile, because seasons have changed and we have entered a new era, where what an old African proverb said is true: "If you want to go quickly, go alone. But if you want to go away, go with others." So we're in a new era, at a time of understanding, at a time of shock where we're all going away. Quickly one can go alone, but far we can go only with others. So today I can tell you that I am pleased, because in politics one must also be confirmed by the forecasts and forecasts or the analyses it is doing. Here, I must say that I am very pleased, because on 2 December 2016 it relates to the bill that comes today, which is what I am saying to you, and that is why I said very much - I had tabled with a topical question to the Minister, Mr Gabroglou, which was precisely the contents of the bill that we are discussing today, namely how we can really establish universities, to complete higher education, the process of which had started since 2001, in such a way that we have absolutely nothing to be jealous at any level with regard to this reform, by the Cypriot model, which I proposed to him at the time and which I think has led us to. Then I have to say that I had a performance on this topic at the Ministry of Education and I spoke to the Minister. I am glad, therefore, that this is now coming to be the law of the state. This is a pilot effort, which has issues, which one has to deal with. We also have to deal with these issues clearly, because as I said before, in people's consciousness every day, our work is judged. And the government has to deal with them. So today we are actually launching the project of upgrading higher technological education. However, this occurs in two specific institutions, at the TEI of Athens and the TEI of Piraeus, which are merged and created by the University of Western Attica. I must tell you that it is a very pleasant day today. I chose to speak because I am a Western Attica MEP. I am very pleased about this because it will now belong to this new West Attica University in the country's three largest. But here, as we see the positive side, we also have to look at the issues, the other side of the coin. I imagine all my colleagues agree that we want to know the map of the overall reorientation and when, the timetable, that is, this effort will be completed, which will embrace the whole country. Because it is now a pilot run with the specific University of Western Attica. We also need to see the consequences of such an effort, such an exercise in the social sphere. Because that was heard by many colleagues. When I said before that we needed to reach agreement, I meant that if we wanted to go away, we should go with others and not on our own. I must tell you that this project has a very positive impact on the social surroundings of the Western Attica, especially in the region of Aegaleo. Proof of this is that all mayors, self-government, municipalities in the region really consider this initiative to be very positive. I told you that I have had the pleasure since 2 December 2016 to raise this issue, representing the West Attica, the area that is my seat. Positive is the reaction of the institutions representing the economic life, the social and also economic fabric of the region. So we also have the social side which is positive. This helps us to say yes, to consent, that is to say, to converging in this bill other than others. As I said, however, each currency has two sides. I told you earlier about the overall redeployment. I told you about the timetable, which we want to know. We do not know that yet. So you're gonna have to cure them. I will now tell you, ladies and gentlemen, a few comments which I have on students, staff from the University of Attica, lecturers and first grade teachers. These are issues which have issues to resolve. The students have two issues to solve. It is a good thing that access for PES graduates to universities from 1%, which is currently in place, is increasing to 5%. That's good. Be careful, however, the Ministry must pay particular attention to the fact that, in Attica, despite the increase in the percentage, there will no longer be any TEIs, and there will be no access of 20% of the PAI graduates to the county TEI. This is a problem, an issue that you need to see, so that there is equal access. That's the one thing. The other is that there must be no speed in obtaining a university qualification within students. This is an issue that you need to solve. As far as the staff of the University of Western Attica are concerned, I think that the management issue should be dealt with proportionately in line with what is set out for the EITs. So I would like to see the four Vice-Presidents, because they are more than twenty of the sections that will work, so the four Vice-Presidents with experience will have to work for the proper functioning of the University of Western Attica. As far as the lecturers are concerned, I think that in order to avoid injustice, Mr Minister, it would be more appropriate, in my opinion, for Article 4(2) to provide that lecturers who have been elected to apply the 2001 law or who have a personal place to join. Finally, for first-stage teachers, see what the House's Scientific Service says, which finds that the provision requiring distinction between first-stage teachers and the other grades. That is a matter. I see you're consenting, so you keep it in mind. Last, and I shall close with that, Mr President, another aspect of the issue is pay with a different wage. Very good. This should therefore be addressed, because you understand that you consider it unfair to teachers to treat different wages. In conclusion, I would like to say that we will all go along with these issues and, in particular, it is imperative that the Greek Parliament should lift to the level of circumstances in such matters. I am therefore pleased that a majority is voting in favour. I'm doing the same thing. However, I would like to say, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that education, education in general, should not enter the mill of political - party confrontation, but should go to a place of mutual understanding, convergence and production so that the citizens' consciences can do a great deal of work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, too. Mrs. Jufi, SYRIZA Member, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u77	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today's legislative initiative by the Ministry of Education, I think, is an important part of the operation, but also of the content of higher education in our country. It is, of course, a follow-up to the government's policy on the formation of the single area of higher education and research, which is based on the conclusions of the national and social dialogue on education, international developments in the field of university education, but also on the social and economic requirements and challenges that we consider to be facing or confronting our country in the near future. Education, academic institutions and research were particularly affected during the memorial winter. Underfunding led to and furthered the essential operational problems, the research was degraded, thousands of young scientists left for foreign countries, while administrative experiments from previous government schemes aimed at ideological deforestation of the framework and reducing democracy. Our own policy, as it seems from legislation, has made it very difficult, not only to change the legislative framework but also to increase funding. An indicative example of investment is this year's exceptional funding of 52m euros at the EIT, as well as the additional EUR 500m for research funds. It has, of course, essentially dealt with the fight against subsistence with young researchers. It has already been said about eighty-four postdoctoral programmes approved for funding by the ELIFEEC. Of these twenty-five are scientists who returned or who want to return from abroad and of course support with LPIS members, five hundred membership posts for 2017 and so many more for 2018. In fact, for 2019, the Minister of Education pledged to the meeting of the Presidents to proclaim any new post of teaching and research staff at the IOI. It is therefore the effort to strengthen public higher education. We are also aiming at strengthening academicity and active interconnection with research centres and extroverty, but primarily in cooperation with local communities without forgetting the part of the internationalisation of our universities. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the single area is built on the basis of the optimisation of research production and on the better use of the research results resulting from higher education. But it also has a very different dimension. It is the place to set up an open system of production, transmission and dissemination of knowledge with a final recipient society itself. The building of such a single space is therefore a complex social, economic and cultural bet to be won. I welcome today's consents from both the New Democracy and even through its regular'string through the engagement', since it realises that it is a wider, mature social demand. In short, therefore, I would like to say that the single area of education and research is an important area that can be seen in important policies, but also in the face of chronic problems and distortions. We all know that for years there has been a multi-dimensional, over-exploitation, geographical isolation, multi-speed industrial relations, staff shortages and limited use of research results, as well as a problematic organisation of post-graduate programmes. Today, public education and research institutions must also come to - and come - decisively to this process through the special academic committees, the Republican authorities, but also through the decisions of all their institutions, so through coordinated open democratic procedures. The well-armed framework for discussion ensures their public and democratic nature, protects them from self-interest, while it can contribute to transforming the productive model for the benefit of Greek society. So, ladies and gentlemen, we also have positive international experience in this. We are not reforming TEIs. It is a reform that seeks and locates the islands of excellence that exist within TEIs, the impulses in synergies and conferences with universities and such upgrades in the European field have contributed very much. Two words about the University of West Attica, because much more was said. Evidently, his establishment is derived from the need to restore academic regularity in the field of AEIs, giving solutions to the mismatch between the academic reality of the two institutions and the institutional framework of operation. There is a sustainability and impact report. Written by the Ministry. There is a lot of details of the detailed description, organisational structure, of the benefits of students and graduates at state level, local society and staff. The most crucial thing, however, in my opinion, is that this process puts forward a very serious move forward of such substantial initiatives to create larger formations. In many regions of the country, these projects have already begun, in Epirus, Thessaly, Central Greece, in Western Greece. The university I come from, the University of Ioannina is actively consulting the TEI of Epirus for this effort and to talk about a new substantial academic evaluation through an exhaustive institutional dialogue to create a strong EIO in the region of Epirus, since both of them have contributed significantly to the development and economy of the region. It seems that this request is necessary and mature in order to have new, qualitative and quantitative characteristics of more overall upgrading of the site. It can also help to establish a research centre, since we believe it can be one of the best in the country and serve the humanitarian studies where there is great tradition and interest in our country. Vocational education centres and two-year curricula are also expected to operate at the University of Ioannina. And so we aspire, with all these initiatives to create a single set of reforms that will fuel and support each other. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One more minute, Mr President. A lot has been said about the request for student relocations. It has been a mature demand for many years and, of course, it has been implemented and, of course, we all hope that they will be better solved through a cross-party committee. I would like to refer to an issue that has not been mentioned at all, in paragraph 6 of Article 19, which is the issue of issuing the European Health Insurance Card for undergraduate, postgraduate and candidate doctors who have no other medical and hospital care. I think this helps, is important and missing. These students are entitled to full coverage of the ERC with expenditure coverage from the EEAS. Finally - and Mr President, I thank you for your tolerance - ladies and gentlemen, the core of the bill is to upgrade education produced, expand research opportunities, tackle the chronic problems, and above all to strengthen institutions while responding to local, national and international challenges. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. The Greek society has time-consuming demands for serious investment in education and health, and the transition period we are experiencing is critical and decisive. We cannot ignore its needs and we will all be judged strictly, through our necessary conflict coexistence for what we are legislating and, above all, for what we are doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, too. Mr Konstantinos Kontogeorgios, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, listening to the barbaric title of today's draft law that we are discussing, one can only agree. 'University of Western Attica'. The title includes everything, the dreams of a large population part of the Attica prefecture, and satisfys the sense of hearing in each West Attica family. But things actually look like that? Is this an upgrade of higher education in West Attica? And what are those elements that can determine the upgrade? Is it a qualitative upgrade? Is resources increased in the co-ordinated institutions? Unfortunately, no. Is human resources increased, teaching staff? Unfortunately, no. Are the funds for research in this whole region increased? Unfortunately, no. It's just a combination. Is it a combination, which, of course, responds to the call of times and monuments, satisfying the hearing as a sense of a great population of society, but, above all, while it would be an undertaking that should enclose the consensus of the whole political world - as should be the issues of education - yet we are asked this question in this Chamber: does the Government want the opposition to be consented to projects relating to the upgrading of education, yes or no? Because on the one hand it cannot be sought and on the other hand it should be undermined by itself and on the other hand by saying that the Civic Anti-Civilization "strengthening through the engagement". One of them is going to happen. Either seeks it by deeds and attempts and succeeds or undermines it. Here, too, it undermines her in this case. Ladies and gentlemen, the current Minister for Education, who every legislative project of his, has been documenting it in the tertiary education situation for forty years, fails to tell us himself as an academic forty years in this country if he also bears a share of responsibility. Or is it the only ones who are to blame anyway? He artificially omits this obligation. The current Minister for Education could also be described as the measure of customer relations. It satisfys everything, of course, acoustics alone, because it does not actually answer any of the questions that are raised. For example, is the new educational institution studied to the extent that it will ensure its success? Does the study of its viability, feasibility, include the social and academic dialogue required to meet the criteria of a modern educational institution? What is his connection to the labour market? What is its link to the global academic map of a modern European country? Is he responding to these criteria? Unfortunately, once again, clandestineness prevails, once again it is fragmentary, once again the Minister of Education is truly confirmed in what is measured, I repeat, in customer relations. Because it is addressed to a particular political audience, because it holds for itself a series of ministerial decisions that may regulate matters, and in this educational institution for the next two, perhaps three, years, enclosing the next election campaign, and in that sense confirms its ability as a measure of customer relations. He also reaffirms once again his disdain in dialogue, his abstention in accepting different opinions and opinions. Minister, it is not just that you hate dialogue, but that you are being circumvented and every concept of parliamentary control. You are not answering any questions from a Member within the national Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u80	Mr. Comrade...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u81	Let go. I'll give it to you in the Minutes. Personally, I asked you three questions from 30 October to today, on various issues. Please write to the Minutes. Question about school meals on 30 October. No answer. Second question on 27 November, concerning parallel support for primary and secondary education. No answer. Third question on January 9, 2018, regarding the remodelling of school units. No answer. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Kontogeorgios, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You are completely destroying the functioning of parliamentary control in Parliament and the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, writing parliamentary control in your old shoes. And that's why you're going to have to answer. That is why I am given the opportunity once again, for the Minutes of Parliament, and for my last three questions, without getting any answer. Not in the past. So you have again confirmed your view whether you really respect dialogue and parliamentary control with your replies here in Parliament, at least. And I come on two very controversial issues, because the New Democracy rapporteurs have raised them all. The first issue is compulsory fourteen-year-old education. No one disagrees, Minister. But it's predictive on the knee. One example will only be brought to you for compulsory kindergarten from four. I can only justify one spoon here that you manage, at the same time, with a move to put an end to the issue of self-government as a whole, that there are no places at the children's stations. Transfer by one decision, at least virtually, a large number of infants from kindergartens to kindergartens. Now, of course, how these kindergartens work, especially in the region, in problem areas, you don't care. What's the number? How can a child move to attend, from a family living, for example, in Agrafia and there is no kindergarten for fifty or sixty kilometers? That's not what you're interested in. You are simply interested in moving the problem, writing in your old shoes even the opinion of local government. If you are indeed respecting the institutions of society, the main pillar of our democracy, which is local government, you will have to respond to these problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u82	How many kids are left out? You know?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u83	I know about my place, about the Evritania Prefecture. Forty kids. Forty toddlers. Are these going to be moved? I do. Do you know?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u84	All in all, I want you to tell me if...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u85	Don't give up on that. You'll tell me. Allow this technique to be interrupted during placements. You will answer in overall terms and you will answer in writing! I'll ask you more questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Conkogeorgios.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u87	Thank you very much, too. You will answer, Minister. And don't interrupt!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u88	Mr Kelles, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with the bill we are discussing today, great and deep changes are being made to public education in the country. The Athens and Piraeus TEIs are merged at a University of Western Attica. But in this way, you are not strengthening technological education, but you are rather shrinking it. And more generally, your design contains nothing that connects higher education to the labour market and the economy. As far as the other provisions are concerned, there are malfunctions, to which I shall refer next. The organization of the University of West Attica is rough, without a programme, without financial guarantees and without harmonisation of scientific objects. I'll give you an example. Co-rapporteur, Minister, under the name of "Section of Biomedical Sciences" five different directions, Medical Labs, Radiology and Radiotherapy, Aesthetics and Cosmetology, Optology and Odotechnics. In this way, however, you are also confusing students and professionals of space. The Department of Radiology and Radiotherapy is the only highest on Greek territory and covers all subjects of medical imaging, nuclear medicine, radiation therapies. It is self-powered, according to the law and has broad recognition of at least forty-six European Union universities, where it exists as an autonomous training unit. With the proposed merger, how will an assessment be carried out within the framework defined by the IPPC? How will it be ensured that students are allocated in the different directions? For these reasons, Minister, I believe that you need to rethink this matter and maintain it as an autonomous department in the new school and the medical laboratories as well. Secondly, you have taken no care of graduates and their families, which are thousands of people. What will you do to ensure their professional rights? Will they have a lower place in the labour market and a different degree, although they have studied the same with their future colleagues who will now come from the University of Western Attica? Third, you don't blame the students. Those who attend postgraduate courses will receive a TEI qualification within the AEI. The same will be done for those who have exceeded the intended time of study, but also for those who wish to continue the curriculum. In other words, we will have transition students and two-class curricula, as well as two-speed professionals, namely privileged and non-professional, from this bill. Fourthly, reclassify sections of TEIs to schools in the province, because you are preparing to shrink technological education in Greece. The debate and informal consultations on the creation of new HEIs in the province by merging the TEIs have already begun. We support higher education and any initiative that will strengthen it, provided that young people and young people find work and are absorbed by the labour market. The problem is that the prevalence of technological education in Greece is being reduced, at the moment, according to official statistics, it records higher absorption in the labour market and is being strengthened in the international and European environment. That is why we support the development of technological education in university education of applied sciences. Fifthly, you give the appropriate Minister, who will be able, by deciding and ordering, to convert HEI to TEI and vice versa. Six, I'm coming to the post-registration article. The provisions you bring, Mr Minister, are strengthening - and you are right to do - those who are within the limits of poverty. And of course, they must be strengthened. Most families today after the crisis and cuts in pensions, wages, etc. You know very well that they need support. Above all, however, you do not take into account the multitude and the third parties at all. Didn't you, Minister, have you previously recognised the law on the request of luxuries and third parties and promised a change in the law of relocations? You did it. Multitude students are now few. It's only 14% of the transcripts made in total. The law of polytecture registrars operated without problems for thirty-two consecutive years, as the precursors themselves confessed. Why don't you do it now, if it's that simple? Why don't you incorporate it in this bill? Why would you look hostile to the multitude and threefold families? Although it is not your responsibility and it is not about this bill, after the towel of allowances, where you were feeding them other pre-elections, you are now coming to appear unreliable once again by ignoring them in the matter of relocations. It should immediately reintroduce the right of free relocation to the most advanced students and their children so that they can relocate to the respective EIO or TEI school, which is closer to their home place or where the brother or sister is in the respective year. Seventh, in relation to the branches and specialties of secondary education teachers: As I told you in committee, there is an injustice against the category IE of Special Assistant Personnel. They must be included in the branch as a TEI of Special Assistant Training Personnel, after having received a similar training with thirty three branches and specialties and treated as TEs and carrying out corresponding training tasks. Finally, as far as secondary education is concerned: Minister, do you find the 5% of EIT posts that will be claimed by graduates in the light of the changes you make? How will these children be able to move on to higher education if you phase out all the TEIs? Finally, Minister, you spoke of consensus. We, as our rapporteur said, are doing the transcendance and we will consent. We are working together because we believe that education is the greatest investment in our country and in the future of our country. However, education needs a long and stable framework to ensure growth. It needs vision and work, without political and party purposes. We are proving this once again today with our attitude. But you too must do the same, not only in education, but in other areas of public policy that are at stake in national interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u90	Thank you. Mr Baxvanakis, State Secretary for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, has the floor. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor for nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill contains, in addition to its basic content, the flagrant real initiative to create the University of Western Attica, and some more important - in our view - articles, some of which refer to vocational education. The rapporteur of the New Democracy mentioned the lack of strategic planning on our part and, in any case, the delay in drawing up such a strategic planning. With all the seriousness one can have, the first thing we can answer is what this government has received from the previous one in the field of planning for the upgrading of vocational training. The answer is very simple, because it is a word: nothing. We completed a strategic plan for the holistic treatment of the vocational education and training system within a year and even in a year that you all know what the conditions were then in the country, 2015 and 2016. Since 2016, therefore, the country has had an integrated strategic planning for vocational education and training, because of which we have been able to make available substantial resources from European funds, which exceeds EUR 300 million, which we currently have for the development of many programmes supporting and strengthening vocational education. What does this design say? A new structure for professional high school, an attractive structure for students and students, but avoiding early specialization, which was already applied by the previous Samara - Venizelos conflict. We implement the program "A New Authority in the PESA", which aims to reduce the displacement of students and support for PES students during their studies and as regards the results of the courses, with support for students and students in the first class, as well as for their psychosocial support, through the recruitment of psychologists from next year to all professional high school in the country. Finally, our design refers to the children after their graduation from school. The first implementation of this plan is the post-training year, the apprenticeship class, which, over and above what was unfounded and inaccurate has been said for months, meets the universal acceptance of both our pupils and students, and proof of the great success of the programme is that the thousands of two hundred graduates who participated in the first implementation last year have been more than doubled this year and the number of graduates involved in the apprenticeship programme exceeds three thousand, both in public and private bodies, with full security, with all the work rights and a upgraded level of qualifications of the European framework. And the last axis was the academic perspective of PSA graduates. We have already established the introduction of the PES graduates and the universities since last year. Until last year, that didn't exist. For PSA children, there were only TEIs. We have therefore introduced the introduction to universities since last year, as many as 1% of jobs. The rate with the bill we are discussing today is 5%. I would like to stress this, to give him all the emphasis he deserves. A taboo that existed in a large part of Greek society is slowly cracking. PES children are equal students and students with the children of General Schools and have access to all structures of tertiary education. There was therefore a concern among the New Democracy colleagues about the children of the Attica PSC. The New Democracy's colleagues are concerned about the children of the PES. Who are they worried about? They are the ones who in 2013 took down sectors and dozens of PSAs specialities, put two and a half thousand teachers at the disposal and led twenty thousand students and students outside the public education system. These are the Members who are concerned about what is going to happen with the PSA children! If the word 'crisis' does not characterize this behaviour, please find another appropriate word in the case. How many of the PSA entrants in tertiary education last year? It was six thousand two hundred sixty. How many people will this year, with the increase in the percentage we make in universities from 1% to 5%? It's gonna be six thousand seven hundred eighty. In other words, five hundred and twenty students from the ESDP this year more than last year will be introduced into higher education. There was really a problem with the invaders from the Attica PPAs, how these children will be able to learn in the structures of higher education based in Attica. There was a mistaken treatment of numbers because, in their calculations, colleagues calculated only the new West Attica University, but they ignored the fact that the number of posts in universities is increasing for all universities and universities based in Attica. And for Polytechnic, for Medicine, for Physics and Agronomics. In all these schools, the rate of graduates in the ESDP is increasing from 1% to 5%. However, because there is a surprise among the children who are already in the 3rd grade, as the Minister announced, especially for this year, and especially for the University of Western Attica, the percentage of the children of the ESDP that will be introduced into it will be increased and according to our calculations, so that there will be a full restoration, with the legislative improvement that we will submit this rate to 10%. We are setting up at all the universities and at the TEIs of the country, training centres that will operate two-year vocational training courses, with a privileged introduction to those of the PPAS graduates, under the prestige of higher education institutions and in very interesting specialities, some of which we have heard from the officials of the TEI of Athens and TEI of Piraeus at the hearing of the bodies in the Committee on Educational Affairs. Thus, the PES graduates who do not want to continue in higher education will have three possibilities from now on: the first is the student in the IEKs we all know. The second is the institution of apprenticeship, which we have already been implementing since last year with very promising results to date. And the third option, which we are introducing today with the bill, is that children should be taught at the vocational training centres of the HEIs. All three roads lead to level 5 of the European Qualifications Framework, and that is why we legislate that the graduates of all three structures will have the same molecules in all the AACC's notices of recruitment in the public sector, the same way, that is, a hundred and fifty molecules. With Article 30, we are setting up the National Coordinating Body for apprenticeship, with a view to an attractive structure, a hopeful effort that we have put in place to monitor it, propose ways of improvement and any change needed. In fact, we have chosen in this coordinating body that the government does not have the majority, that the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Labour appoint only four of its thirteen members and that the majority of its members should be appointed by the social partners, by the employers and employers who offer the apprenticeships, and, of course, that the representatives of government I and II participate, as well as the municipalities and regions offering apprenticeships for the graduates of the ESDP. Of course, all the members of this institution will not receive the slightest remuneration for their participation in its meetings. Finally, I refer to Article 31, which we create in all detention stores, in all prisons in the country, school structures, primary school or secondary school, general high school, professional high school, public IEK, as well as educational classes for foreign prisoners. I think it is self-evident that the layout should be valued. Corresponding to the well-known saying, to say that where a school opens, a prison becomes more human. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Allow me for a minute, Mr President, to refer to the amendment we are tabling, the general number 1491 and the number 155, which refers to the operation of the EEA. These are provisions which, in our view, regulate some problematic provisions that have existed from the past. In 2013 by ministerial decision it was determined that the person chosen for CEO of EEAP, if he is a civil servant or a wider public sector, should be seconded from his service to the EEAP, as if he were an employee requesting a job change. Apart from the fact that this decision exceeded its legislative powers, it is also an absurd one. Only in the EEA is this happening. We are therefore abolishing this provision and we say that the CEO is appointed - as is reasonable - by a decision of the Minister of Education and is not required to be seconded. In paragraph 3, we say, it goes without saying, that after the end of the term of office of the CEO, he returns to his post until his appointment. Finally, the fourth paragraph stipulates that the Agency's rules of operation are laid down by a ministerial decision of the Minister of Education. The previous provision said that a joint ministerial decision was needed with the co-legislative ministers. However, the EEAP is a public interest organisation, it belongs to the public sector and is supervised exclusively by the Ministry of Education. There are no co-legislative ministers on the subject. Therefore, we also regulate this inconsistencies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u92	SYRIZA MP, Mr. Katsavria, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the establishment of the University of West Attica, the work of education and culture in the most unfair area of Lecanopdi is an initiative that meets not only the strict academic needs, but also the need to adapt higher education to the new economic model that we are building, but also to international developments in the field of higher education. With regard to the purely academic issue, the role of TEIs in the single area of higher education, while at the same time the proposals of the eight-member committee of universities and representatives of the TEIs for this academic project, have been adopted. It is obvious that the merger of the Athens and Piraeus TEIs comes as a natural development, given their excellent evaluation by the Quality Assurance Authority and the findings of the ongoing national and social dialogue. In addition, account is taken of international experience and modern European reality with many and successful examples. It is certain that it will contribute to economies of scale, which will have a beneficial effect both on the rational use of the resources available and on the improvement of the quality of the studies provided. This is the political will of the Ministry of Education and is clearly expressed in the explanatory memorandum to this draft law. It is, of course, worth repeating that the new university already has the necessary teaching and administrative staff, the necessary logistical infrastructure, as well as the commitment of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Education to ensure adequate funding and the institutional framework for its proper functioning. I consider it important to emphasise the fact that old and current students are fully assured of their academic qualifications and professional rights. It is also important to strengthen the PSAs to make attractive structures, support for their students and the institution of apprenticeships, introduce the two-year curriculum with the possibility of setting up vocational training centres, which is coming to increase overall vocational education and training in our country, as well as the creation of school structures in all detention stores in the country. However, inevitably this legislative initiative opens up two new chapters in education policy. One chapter concerns the elimination of any micropolitical, clientele or localist approach. This is very important, as such approaches have been one of the greatest pathogens in tertiary education in the past. The other chapter relates to the fact that the University of Western Attica is based on the principles of academic excellence, quality and guarantee of public and free status of higher education. This, of course, contrasts with the famous "ATHENA" project and the neoliberal obsession that seeks to horizontally reduce expenditure on education and the violent and irrational closure of departments and institutions. At this point let me refer to the Department of Forestry and Natural Environment Management of TEI Larissa, based in Carditsa, which, with this bill, is part of the School of Technology, Agriculture and Food and Food of TEI Thessaly. It is about completing the decision of the Ministry of Education on his stay in Carditsa, following the suffering caused by the project "ATHENA" throughout the academic community of Thessaly. The injustice has finally been restored and the department continues to contribute to the full development of the region. On the issue of relocations to brothers, I would like to express my satisfaction at Mr Gavroglou's commitment to giving a satisfactory solution to all families with serious financial problems and hope, Minister, that the additional problems that have already been raised through the dialogue you have already requested and cross-party synergy will be resolved soon. Ladies and gentlemen, in fact with this draft law, which is a follow-up to the major reform areas that we have been working on over the last three years, we are launching a new era in the way in which education policy should be conducted. Respect for academic criteria, flexibility, innovation, democratic sensitivity, commitment to the public interest and social benefit are the characteristics of this policy. In fact, we aspire the University of Western Attica to be a model for similar synergies between universities and TEI in order to form that critical academic mass that will allow higher education to become the driving lever of society and development. The bet's in front of us, and we have all the tools to win it. In this context, the debate on the interconnection of education with the economy is made sense and content. The knowledge and innovation economy is indeed the one that can offer opportunities of high added value, well-paid jobs and prospects of sustainable and fair growth. Indeed, given the huge number of graduates in our country, it is not too much to say that the knowledge economy fits Greek society, but at this point we must be careful, as there is a risk of market economy education being subjected to. This is a risk that is comparable to that of subjugation to economic policy, the disastrous consequences of which we are experiencing nowadays and at a globalised level. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will end in a minute, Mr President. And in order to be more precise, when we talk about economy at this level, we actually mean the great interests that are peculiar to it and which cause enormous disparities within the societies themselves and between countries, poverty, exclusion and impeccable conflicts. Therefore, education is about contributing to fair economic growth, social liberation, high personal formation and the cultivation of solidarity and humanitarian values. I think with most colleagues we share the common belief that the University of West Attica, the third in capacity in the country, opens with surely its wings and is ready to take with him the new generation of our country, as well as its legitimate expectations for a creative future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, too. The Parliamentary Representative of the New Republic, Mr Javarra, has the floor. Here, Mr Javarra, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy, in so far as the government announces by means of this bill an attempt to strengthen technological educational institutions, is indeed obliged - and our rapporteur has said so - to support this bill in principle. However, what is impressive and what none of us can leave it at stake is the fact that just now the Minister responsible from this step has said that this move, this piece of legislation, which is now being discussed and which will shortly be voted on, is an emblematic initiative which can mean nothing more than the effort that this Ministry of the Government makes to give emblematic meaning to a very specific effort to strengthen the technological educational institutions of the country, that is to say, institutions which, based on Law 2916/2001, form one of the two areas of higher education. Because, Minister, you are not your government, nor is it your government that has invented the need for higher education in the country to share in two areas, in the field of university education, which are the highest education institutions and in the technology sector, which are the educational establishments in it. So these schools in both sectors are higher schools already. What we would expect from you now is to give this supremacy a substantial and not an emblematic content. Because I think that both your education and your training are much better than I do and you are prepared to realise that we do not consume symbolic resources here. Here, when we have to deal with such a serious and crucial issue about the conditions that the country is going through, saying that we are emphasizing legislative initiatives, namely that we are consuming good legislative resources to give, highlight and strengthen symbolism and nothing else, it is too unfair. Of course, this intention is evident from the entire economy of the bill. It is obvious that, for example, in Article 4 where you do nothing there but in the context of this flagship initiative to use one of the most common weapons you have in order to strengthen - within introductory words - the 'Messian' character of SYRIZA and ANELs as Government. Article 4, that is to say, from the vote on this bill and after the members of the TEI of Athens and Piraeus are transferred to members of the University of Western Attica and at the same time they become automatically academic teachers. This is called magic policy, thought and action. It is a method of political magic in which after we have taken away all the established and legislated ways, we suddenly come to the point with a legislative blow to change everything and everything to be transformed. So we are now talking about a new way of obtaining the status of a university teacher. In addition to what we have known through service developments, we now also have the qualification of a university teacher and by transformation. That is indeed very flagrant and I will agree with you. However, if it is something that I personally would like to criticise, it is the fact that you find the opportunity with this bill to triumph for things that we should normally have been sitting on a table together and to give everyone the best thoughts and ideas, to see what risks the university's idea is facing today and what challenges they need to respond to. This is something I have said since this Step, which has already begun to employ the Western world since 1998. The address at Stanford, California, in 1998 by Jacques Derrida, is known under the heading 'Union without any conditions'. That's what society wants from us. This calls on us every citizen who really believes that university is not an institution that awards selfish and used professional titles, but it is precisely the epitome of every civilised society's effort to promote through university teaching and research truth and knowledge. We would like, therefore, here from you - and I have said so before - to see something different, which corresponds to today's and future needs. Instead, we don't see anything. But what makes me even more sad is the fact that there is no bill of your own that you do not reserve a privileged role for the Minister of Education. In and out of this particular piece of legislation and from the previous ones, everything depends either on ministerial decisions, or on presidential decrees, or on the end of appointments of people in positions - keys that the Minister will do. But that is what directly violates Article 16 of the Constitution, the article which is the crown of all the struggles for education and which has so far dealt with it and the Council of State, namely that there are in Greece the highest educational establishments to which the legislature has entrusted the search for truth and the exercise of research on terms, but which are governed by two basic principles: from the principle of academic freedom and from the principle of self-government, which, as Parliament's scientific report says, may not reach the point of autonomy, but it creates the obligation of the State to abstain from anything that is impediment and prevents the exercise of these two freedoms from being exercised. In other words, the search for the truth and the uninterrupted research on the one hand and, more importantly, the abstention of any regulation which does not have the character of the ability and competence of the higher spiritual institutions with their own institutions to decide on anything that concerns their organisation and function. So, as far as this management committee is concerned, which will start all this reform work, which you say, on the transformation of the two TEIs into a higher education institution entitled 'Western Attica', as far as exactly this management committee - which the Lord knows when to finish its work, why do you have the opportunity and constantly renew its term of office - how is it possible to speak of respect for these two basic principles? So I would like to end by telling you this: no matter what plans you bring, you will never respond to the very specific needs that the Greek society has today to attach to the functioning of higher education to the economic, legal and moral conditions which inevitably define the field of university research and academic freedom. So what will always be left at the end of every initiative of your own will be an attempt to gain power, as you and perhaps some of your comrades here have said, who have told us that so far we may have become a government, but we are looking for power and we are seeking it so that we can do what we have in soul and mind. In other words, we must make a complete transformation with this magical thought that distinguishes us and which is simply expressed by the words'say it'. This is what you do and it is also known as the caption that has inspired and all the television spots that the Prime Minister advertises his government's work: 'It was fair and acted'. I would like you to tell us, what is going to happen with this bill what it was and how exactly you are aware of it in relation to Article 16 of the Constitution in the sense and terms that I have analysed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, too. Mr Micheloannakis, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, the changes in the subjects examined in the third grade of general professional high school and that will now be examined in four courses is a very important effort and finally the end of the endless examinations. It is also very important to set up school units in all detention shops, as well as educational departments of the Greek language. This will reform the spirit and help many who need to socialize later in this way. We also show a sensitivity and a morality with the establishment of ethics and research committees. And that will work soon. The same important thing is the possibility of translating into the brothers who are studying in different cities. In particular, in times of crisis, this provision will help Greek households to meet these Memorandum years we are experiencing. The introduction of fourteen-year compulsory education and two-year compulsory pre-school education will absorb thousands of children. Many teachers will also be used. In other words, jobs are being opened and thousands of children are being absorbed. In this way, we have solved a problem that we have experienced so far. Also very important for ESDP graduates is the organisation of two-tier training courses with professional certificates, which will be European qualifications. In seventeen municipalities, in the most degraded area of Lecanopedi, a million thousand inhabitants will welcome the establishment of the University of West Attica. The Athens and Piraeus TEIs are rejected, sixty research workshops and forty-two departments, which are made twenty-six, with demanding qualifications - look out! - for the election of an assistant professor and a deputy professor, covering cognitive fields which are missing, such as social, administrative and economic sciences, engineering sciences, food sciences, health and welfare sciences and artistic studies. TEI students can either complete the TEI or the new university provided they have not exceeded the sixth year of study plus two. And that's important. There will be no change in the professional rights of graduates. You know how much we've been tortured by business rights. At the moment, the fact that there will be no change is very important to that law. This year, we have provided an additional 52 million for higher education institutions. We had an increase in the research of EUR 500 million, as you saw, when we voted on it. We created five hundred new posts in 2017. And as the Minister has committed, there are another five hundred posts in 2018. So you see that education and education are beginning to grow. This bill, which will soon be a law, what does it do? It will strengthen education - and that is for granted - and will certainly make it competitive internationally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u98	Thank you very much. Mr George Aristotle, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is an emblematic and pioneering project. It is an essential step in a series of actions and measures aimed at upgrading the educational system. We are aiming at an educational system that goes hand in hand with international standards. We aim at a modern, extremist and competitive educational system. This draft is part of our broader strategy to change the country's productive model, our strategy for fair and sustainable growth, our overall effort to establish memorandum Greece on healthy and solid foundations. In this effort, it can only be our main priority to strengthen education and research, that is to say, if we want to talk about a fundamental reform. For the first time investment in research and innovation in Greece reaches 1% of GDP. For the second consecutive year, after many years, we have managed to increase the spending on education against the greedy forecasts of the previous downturn, against the disastrous policy of the New Democracy and PASOK, against the policy of degradation, against the logic of redundancies. We are choosing to use the positive elements, to correct the bad texts, to lay the foundations for further development with the ultimate aim of presenting and implementing a comprehensive plan for the reform of the country's education system. Let us now come to this bill and to the establishment of the University of West Attica. You know it's harder to keep a situation at a certain point than to follow its evolving dynamics. The two TEIs we co-operate and upgrade are mature for this change. The academic process itself and their dynamics imposed further upgrades. We don't just get together, but we're redesigning. We kept some, put together other things and added new items. On the basis of the avoidance of overlaps, based on the sustainability, upgrading and further evolution of educational institutions, we are maintaining the step with international developments, creating institutions with an extrovert and competitive character to form a step forward - the single area of education and research, an area where science will cooperate with research and further and with the economy, an area of cooperation and synergies. The reform we introduce will have multiple benefits for students, teaching staff, state, productive institutions and local society as well as the establishment of the university will give new development opportunities in the West Attica region. Discussions continue in many educational institutions in the country and the conclusion will be based on academic criteria and the aim of upgrading higher education institutions. By regulation we had already established, the law that we passed last August and which we specialise in this bill, the graduates of the PES will be able to attend two-year courses of study at the vocational training centres that will be organised and monitored by the HEIs and the TEIs in their area. Our aim is to upgrade vocational education, strengthen and safeguard all these young people who are in vocational schools and who are often treated like the presence of the educational system. In this context, we are increasing from 1% to 5% the import rate at the university of PES graduates through pan-Hellenics. In the same context we have introduced the institution of a post-training school year with three thousand ESDP graduates taking part this year in the apprenticeship. Also, a major reform that meets a stable demand for society is that we gradually introduce the compulsory schooling of infants between the ages of four and five at the kindergarten. We are thus defending the right of all children to be in kindergarten. We ensure the universality of pre-school education, which is a European objective, but also a consistent demand from the educational movement within the framework of the fourteen-year-old compulsory education that we are establishing. I would like to stress here the CEDEFOP's contributions, which should at some point stop setting up a comitology for the country's education policy. The creation of the National Coordinating Body, the setting up of Ethics Committees at each university, the upgrading and extension of the operation of prison schools, an excellent development for all young prisoners, their prospect of penitentiary and their course after their release. Transcriptions of students about brothers and sisters who are students, giving a solution to a big social problem. These regulations, as well as our entire legislative work on education, are designed to reintroduce the country's educational map on sound bases, in modern terms. They are the pieces of a puzzle that, when everything comes into place, we will now be talking about a new landscape in the educational system of the country. Ladies and gentlemen, like any major change that overturns the data, the reactions are expected. It is certain, however, that when we get to a point of balance, we will have taken many steps forward. That is why we call on you to vote in favour of this bill, which is the product of multi-month processing and consultation, as well as the broadest possible consensus. Let us heal the pathogens and distortions of the past, what the policies of the previous governments failed to heal. We need to take measures that our education and our place needs. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Before I finish, I should like to take the floor, on the occasion of the request of the rapporteur for the Democratic Incorporation, at the meetings of the last week. From the speeches of our great parliamentary opponents, I collected inspired phrases and designations such as: "Athens", "false", "false", "growers", "growers", "will not save anyone", "I will melt them", "Tsipras is corrupt", "Tsipras", "Tsipras", "Political genocide", "parcrat", "collapse of common criminal law", "will put them in prison", "colloidal protectors", "pallionists", "snakes", "snakes", "snakes". That's all I've got.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u100	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u101	I shall conclude, Mr President. These are some of the expressions and designations used in the political controversy by the excellent, by these permanent tenants and owners of Parliament and the governments, by the undeniable defenders of democracy! Only regrettably can the level of political controversy on the part of the Opposition. I'm stopping here and thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-two students and students and three educational attendants from the 2nd Kilkis High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Parliamentary Representative of the River Mr George Amyras has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Colleague, you've forgotten your papers here. I'm putting it aside. What are they saying here? "Another failure of SYRIZA's reform in education"? Oh, no! Ladies and gentlemen, at the moment we are talking, the central building of the University of Athens is under occupation. I also read your communication, Minister, and I think we agree that it is another small stone added to this uninterrupted stonening of higher education by acts which, of course, have nothing to do with the academic community and the scientific work. Should we put the lawlessness and infrastitude in the homes, universities, places where students are supposed to be free and distracted by such issues, be engaged in education and in the hunting of education? Why, though, have this mess been happening for years? And I would like to talk about the deep party state and not about the para-state that was heard before. Obviously, you will know that too many student homes in the country are still - or were - under occupation for almost two months. Why? Because students' homes, the three largest, two and a half thousand students, were deprived of their food and heating in many cases. All because there was a useless administration placed by the Government and the Ministry of Education at the Youth and Lifelong Learning Foundation. So let's see what a party state is like and what the consequences of the party state are. In September 2016, a call for expressions of interest to cover the position of the CEO of the Youth and Lifelong Learning Foundation. In April 2017, with your ministerial decision, you designate Mr. Pillis to the post of director of the institution, despite the fact that he was third in the ranking order. You passed the first two and gave the place to Mr. Pilalis. Did Mr. Pilalis qualify? First of all, let us say that the qualifications are described in a ministerial decision, in Decision 24446 of 6 March 2013. What lacked in what was Mr. Pilalis for you, however, the CEO of the Youth and Lifelong Learning Foundation? It lacked experience in European programs, human resources management, adult education, but also in English. He didn't even know English. Nothing had been published by Mr. Pilalis, he had no written work, and yet you put him as CEO of an institution that has a very serious job to do and is in the heart, indeed, of student life - to say so - action and existence. But was he worthy? Probably, if it were, someone would say. And if they put him in the third place, first. Let me remind you, of course, that Mr. Pilalis...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u104	The list was alphabetical.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u105	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u106	How nice? Say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u107	You're saying the list was alphabetical. You're not telling me how you chose him since he had no experience...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u108	That's all.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u109	That's all? He had no experience in European programmes, nor in human resources management, nor in adult education, nor in English did he know. So that was the best guy you found? So listen, after you go defend him, dear Minister. Mr Pillalis, a member of the SYRIZA Central Committee - I believe that this is his key passport - and a director of an former Deputy Minister of Education's Office, with the audit document of the Foundation's own board on 25-10-2017, is invoked for the following reasons: he delays the introduction to the Board of Directors of public tenders for the provision of services and recommends direct awards. It has also not provided for the appointment of chartered auditors’ accounting officer to carry out regular management audits. Mr Pillalis, according to the board itself, who was a member of the Board of Directors, was Mr Pillas and CEO, for drawing up a strategic and service plan, as required by law, and refuses to inform the Board. We have the alalum with the conquests at the dorms, and finally, Mr. Gavroglou, on 7-11-2017, ceases Mr. Pillalis and appoints Mr. Zervas. Is Mr Zervas qualified or is it a "intervention" of the previous? Mr. Zervas was director of the office of the former Minister of Education, Mr. Baltas and Director of the Sivitanide School. And if I give a basis to what I read in a question tabled by Mr. Fortsakis, neither is Mr. Zervas qualified to lead the Youth and Lifelong Learning Foundation. Ladies and gentlemen, I am trying to tell you that this is the problem. The problem is the party state. You cannot appoint party people in positions of responsibility, which have nothing to do with the subject, who have no knowledge, to have the experience. And, as is clear from the administrative board's document itself, it must also be checked on other matters, since they wanted direct awards, and that is why they delayed public tenders. I'm waiting for answers. And I will conclude by saying this: Education is a very serious matter to trust it in the hands of the Syrians. And one final point: Mrs Rania Antonopoulou has finally resigned from the Minister, since, of course, she was first held in the chair and has given her own battle to justify what you as a moral advantage are lulling us, that is to say, to justify that there is only a moral disadvantage for the person who invokes the moral advantage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u110	Was that your speech about the bill?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u111	I am a parliamentarian, and I will also speak on political issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u112	Mr. Sevastaki, now, not you too! Each party is free to express their views. We cannot impose a framework on him what his positions are. You understand that. Minister, would you like to answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u113	No, I won't. However, I would like to say this: it has every right for every colleague to be placed on whatever issue he wants. Only he has to come very well, because when you mention people, there are the suspicions of these people. I want you to be very careful, and I say it to protect you too. Mr. Zervas, first of all, did not replace Mr. Pilalis. Mr. Zervas is the president. The entire management board resigned and appointed a new management board. Amongst the many other inaccuracies you have said, I do not want to go into this, but, if you want, ask me a question, answer it in detail in this House. It's over and out.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u114	The responsibilities...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u115	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u116	Mr. President, excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u117	No, no dialogue, please, Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u118	No dialogue, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u119	You spoke, the Minister answered, not dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u120	I won't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u121	We're moving on to the next one...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u122	Thirty seconds, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u123	I am sorry, Mr Amyras, please, not dialogue. The Minister answered. The next speaker is Mr Pratsol, SYRIZA Member.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u124	Wait a minute, Mr President, on a personal note.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u125	It's not personal, answer something you said. He didn't exaggerate you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u126	Give me the time to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u127	Please. Don't start a dialogue. It's wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u128	Explain the staff, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u129	What personal? It didn't exaggerate you, Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u130	I am entitled to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u131	He didn't say anything. The Minister answered what you said. The answer will be judged.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u132	I am entitled to report to you on the subject of staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u133	And the day before yesterday, we had the same thing. No interactive conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u134	In my dentistry, then.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u135	You'll talk to your dentist again. Mr. Pratsol has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, of course I will speak about the bill and not about others, and I will speak in particular about the area of technological education. If we try to revert to the history of technical and technological education in Greece, we will easily find that the policies that have been pursued in this area have proved to be extremely inadequate and ineffective, despite the fact that the need for this training to exist and be properly supported. Achievements, on the one hand, and obvious inadequacy and lack of planning, on the other, have essentially left this vital space for the development of the country. In tertiary education, the TEIs were set up under Law 1404/1983, replacing the centres of higher technical and vocational education with the KEIs. Law 2916/2001 was followed by the incorporation of TEIs into higher education. Subsequently, they are Laws 3549/2007 and 4009/2011 establishing TEIs as higher education institutions. One could say at first glance that the legislative framework is strong. "Assuring" the surface, however, one finds that so many years later, there are still no regulated professional rights for a number of graduates of these schools even today. Where there are, it's an empty letter most of the time. But today we have heard the New Democracy rapporteur relinquish the government on this issue, when this is an urgent request from students and professional associations since 1970. And, of course, it was not a mere omission, but a firm choice of specific interests. A little self-criticism, I would say, would not harm this issue of professional rights. Also, their unprecedented structure not with academic, but with rushpheological criteria, depending on the rooms and cafes of the areas hosted by TEI, degrades their role in fact. The lack of planning, underfunding and decoupling of the production base programmes by region has deprived them of the potential they could have. Of course, it should be pointed out that in many of these schools and the departments have done an excellent job. They are models of operation and education in modern specialties and their graduates have a great professional rehabilitation. I believe, however, that despite the statements made by the Anti-Population in support of remarkable and serious technical and technological education in Greece, its embarrassment is obvious as it has never moved in this direction. Undocumented, but targeted, created the preconditions for degraded training at the level of logistics, educational staff, a curriculum for micro-participatory purposes. With the coming of the memorials, things got wild. With the 'ATHENA' project, we had cuts in expenditure, cuts in departments, and redundancies of two and a half thousand ESDP teachers - so that we do not forget in this Chamber - in one night, while at the same time abolishing the most popular specialities, which were given to private IEKs. I say this so that we do not forget and suddenly say what the function is and what the value of the PCAs is for production capacity. Some of them were totally degraded. A characteristic example for this is Central Greece: In 2013 while there were two university departments, they were found in one night - in a strange way - in Thessaly. Really, ladies and gentlemen of the Officerate and inspires of the ATHENA project, with what feasibility study has this been done and with what academic criteria? Ladies and gentlemen, the Government, with the creation of the University of West Attica, aims to create a single area of higher education, but also to upgrade it. It is also expected that this initiative will contribute to the development of the Western Attica, as well as of the Lecade in general. This is also demonstrated by the positive views of many operators last week. It marks the change of times and the integration of our educational system into modern Europeans. New curriculum programmes and even greater scope for research procedures are envisaged. For technical education, there will be two-year PSA and PHI graduate programmes as well. 1% of PES graduates entering higher education are increased to 5%. In addition, apprenticeships are awarded training and training courses which may also correspond to the level. ” I would like to point out here the need for rapid adoption of the necessary presidential decrees to guarantee professional rights with distinct roles of school graduates. We must not allow another delay in a matter that has been dragging for decades. This lack hurts every attempt to upgrade, as it eliminates the prospect of professional rehabilitation. This, my Minister, is an urgent need that will mark the substantial upgrading of these schools, Second-time schools in prisons are a very important provision, as they are potentially a headline for social reintegration. The facility to transfer students' brothers to higher education to the same city is socially fair, but caution is needed so that academic criteria are not altered. The introduction of compulsory education is a basic prerequisite for creating serious, reliable, effective educational structures. In September 2018, two-year-old kindergartens will start operating in some two-year-old municipalities, while gradually expanding to all municipalities in the country. And I honestly cannot understand - since I come from the local government - these reactions of the local government. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. In conclusion, I would like to express my deepest conviction that this first ambitious step towards the establishment of the University of Western Attica will follow more, so that we will soon be talking about a new map of higher education in our country, which will make a decisive contribution to achieving the great goal of productive reconstruction and development and will drastically halt the sad phenomenon of Brain drain, that is, the escaping of the scientific potential when the country has the greatest need for them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, too. Mr Andrianos, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor for seven minutes. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating another bill today, which attempts to regulate critical issues of education, but abstractly. And, of course, it also provides for the establishment of the University of Western Attica, which, if properly built as a university of applied sciences, will indeed be a very useful institution to meet the real needs of the economy and give young people prospects of careers. Then, of course, it will also do a substantial and important task, such as a significant project, Minister, to date, both TEIs are being combined. My first point, of course, is that, unfortunately, once again we find the fragmentation with which the government is dealing with these important issues. It would be enough for me simply to refer to the fact that was made yesterday in the committee, where, while you argued - convincingly, I can say - in favour of the provision concerning higher education qualifications in international organizations, it was finally withdrawn with a press release after objection by a colleague, in particular Mr Phile. In other words, you withdrew this provision with a press release, which - as I believe - shows, if anything, that preparation for the drafting of the bill was not appropriate. I would also like to point out the contradiction found in the fact that this law - and in particular Article 8 - abolishes provisions of Law 4485/2017, which the Government voted here a few months ago, and also the contradiction in the fact that in the national strategic framework for the upgrading of vocational education and training drawn up in April 2016 as hereditary to finance actions for vocational education and training by the Commission, they did not include the training centres of the HEI, which are now being established. Either the current provision was inspiring at the last moment, devised by any strategic planning. This fragmentation is also apparent from the large overlap between the new training centres of the IEIGs and the already operating IEKs, in particular the public IEKs. Paragraph 13 stipulates, for example, that courses may also be held in school buildings, where public IEKs are also hosted. In addition, IEKs and vocational education centres are subject to a similar exercise and professional rights are granted under the same institutional framework, despite the fact that the IEKs are in less than six months of attendance or are given the level 5 certificate from the apprenticeship. But apprenticeship is nine months old. Therefore, there are some legitimate concerns about decommissioning the IEC institution. These concerns are reinforced by the strong operational problems that exist due to underfunding. However, there are also serious problems in the second opportunity schools, both in INEDIBIM and in the homes. After all, I have tabled a number of questions for your INEDIDIS. I have not received an answer and I would like you to note it and see who is responsible for it. While there are serious problems, serious complaints, answers to these questions have not yet come from the Ministry. Furthermore, it remains doubtful whether the government has prepared sufficient preparation for the amendment of the national framework of qualifications imposed in the European Union, so that the level 5 study certificate also includes vocational education centres and has an impact on the other countries of the European Union. And here, of course, I would like to raise again the issue of the degrees of today's postgraduate students at the Athens and Piraeus TEIs, which should, as the upgrade will take place, take the title of the new university with the issuing authority. Also doubtful remains, despite the concerns we expressed at the committee meetings, the financing of these centres, as they cannot be financed by the NRP, in so far as they are not included in the strategic framework submitted to the Commission. The same shall apply to practice, where in the last subparagraph of paragraph 11 it is laid down that it may be financed from national or Community resources. In Article 19, by decision of the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, the way and procedure of practice can be defined. These provisions must be ensured that they are in line with the framework for the implementation of the European Union's apprenticeship, so that the apprenticeship of vocational training centres is financed by the ESDP. In any case, in order to deliver this new structure positive results, it is clear that its economic viability should also be ensured. It will be wrong, therefore, if the EITs, which are already suffering from underfunding, are deprived of further resources from their budget. Here too, the provision in paragraph 8 for grants by private sector bodies is not sufficient, since it is not accompanied by concrete and effective incentives and by a broader institutional framework, which will make such forms of cooperation possible and mutually beneficial. I close with some positive points, which demonstrate the constructive approach of the New Democracy towards the crucial issues of education, because we in national affairs always have a responsibility. We are therefore positive about market participants participating in the apprenticeship coordination body set up by Article 30, firmly believing that the more effective linkage of education and, in particular, of vocational education and training with the labour market is a prerequisite for this valuable tool for growth and employment to finally become a conscious career option for young people in our country. We call on the government to simplify even more this instrument, which remains extremely stiff to make it workable. As we also see positively the forecasts of student transfer, which are responding to a real problem at this difficult juncture of the crisis. We are waiting, after you have accepted, Minister, for our proposal in committee, for you to look at the concrete, fair and effective way in which they will be dealt with immediately and for cases not covered by this regulation, where there are indeed objective, economic and social reasons. As also needs to be looked at in greater depth and more systematically the introduction of two-year compulsory pre-school education, for which, of course, there are serious arguments in favour. This is because it goes without saying that the necessary infrastructure and preparation must be fully ensured so that we do not put into unnecessary suffering four-year-olds and their families. Finally, I would like to point out the positive response of the Minister of Education to our proposal to consider the possibility of a transitional period with increased import rates for current students in the second and third classes of the ESDP, planning to enter the TEIs of Athens and Piraeus. We have therefore proposed, following recommendations from the bodies concerned, that the possibility of a transitional period with increased import rates for these very pupils should be considered. We therefore welcome the Minister's positive response to the increase in the import rate for these pupils. Of course, it is a good thing that the second chance schools are set up in prisons. So, despite the positive elements, we can only point out that the bill we are discussing this evening is of a fragmentary nature. We are committed to go beyond the logic of emblematic interventions which do not fall within the framework of broader strategic planning. Our proposal is specific and goes through evaluation and quality assurance, through the greater autonomy of schools, the flexibility of study programmes, the substantial strengthening of vocational education and training and its connection to the needs and prospects of the real economy, through the expansion of retraining and, of course, through the strengthening of the institution of the University of Applied Sciences, so that it can fully deliver its positive results to the economy, to the graduates, and to our society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u139	Thank you. The President of the New Democracy, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, has requested and has the floor. The time provided for in the Rules of Procedure is twenty minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u140	Ladies and gentlemen, before I enter the essence of today's debate, I would like to make a brief comment on the dismissal by the Government of the Deputy Minister of Labour, Mrs Antonopoulou. It had to be three whole days of intense reaction from opposition parties, but also from citizens, to tell Mr Tsipras - take care - initially annoyed and then, of course, under the pressure of public outcry, that he would remove Mrs Antonopoulou from the government. However, the substance of the case remains. It was SYRIZA who voted for the law, which allowed Mrs Antonopoulou and her husband - not to forget him - Mr Papademitriou, to receive a monthly allowance of EUR 1,000, while they have very great property but also real estate, other residence, in Attica. And that was not an automatic procedure. Mrs Antonopoulou applied every month to receive this monthly allowance of EUR 1,000. And what I found extremely interesting, gentlemen of the government, and ladies and gentlemen of the government majority, is - as my colleagues have informed me - that this provision, you know when it was voted on? On 14 August 2015, i.e. together with the third Memorandum. The country was gone, and you went through ruffles. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] However, everyone realises that Mrs Antonopoulou's dismissal does not change reality. After all, her announcement was a vertebral in arrogance, and her initial reaction was the epitome of hypocrisy. In any case, however, the citizens now know very well: there has never been a moral advantage on the Left. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] All that is now confirmed every day is the rapid suppression of Mr Tsipras and the government on the path of moral depreciation. But let me make a second comment, which will then lead me to today's subject, and this is also about the news of the last two days. This morning we still had one more occupation of the Rectorship of the University of Athens. Yesterday there were incidents from known strangers outside the house of Mr. Papademos. He did not get enough of the man who almost murdered him, he had to accept episodes outside his house, because some complain about the transfer of what is allegedly guilty of sending this terror. The same - incidents, that is - occurred outside the Ministry of Justice, as well as in the Korydalou Prisons. Dragons in all four cases were the so-called 'convergences', solidarity with the alleged perpetrator of the attack of Luke Papademos. And I directly ask the government - is the Minister not here, but I see the Government Representative here: does he consider all this to be insignificant? Does he think it's normal? What does he do to react? Any intakes? And why is it - with 'yes' and 'e' - once again an unacceptable tolerance to such phenomena? I am warning you once again from this Step: you are solely responsible for these degenerating phenomena and the dangers they pose. And I want to reassure the National Representation and the Greek people who are watching us, that the tolerance of the next New Democracy government to violence will be zero. These phenomena will end definitively and irrevocably. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I now come to the subject of today's debate, the establishment of the University of Western Attica. I have had the opportunity to attend committee meetings, Members' seats and bodies on a matter of great interest. Minister, you know that we have very often crossed our swords in terms of your policies in education. We have a central philosophical difference in how you understand the role primarily of higher education and we are committed that a number of legislative initiatives that you have introduced into the National Representation will be reviewed immediately by creating a new framework that will govern higher education. On the issue now of the University of Western Attica, one might argue that this choice of its central concept, its great idea, is a choice that moves in the right direction for the following reasons: Recognises a reality, namely that many departments of the Athens and Piraeus TEIs are already at university level. I would like to add one side to the fact that these two TEIs are two excellent institutions which are seconding not only high ratings to the assessments made, but mainly rewarding their graduates from the labour market itself. They find in other words the graduates of most of the departments of these higher educations a lot easier work than the graduates of many university departments find. The second logic, which would lead us to agree with the central principle of this project, is that it is an undertaking that merges structures, a choice that could, under conditions, lead to rationalisation and improvement in the functioning of the new merged institution. And thirdly, if it really led to the upgrading of applied sciences in the West Attica, it would also benefit an area of the Lecanopedio which could at local and regional level absorb know-how that the University of Western Attica can produce. Therefore, as far as its original arrest is concerned, the initiative is firstly positive. Let's now see, however, what exactly you are doing with this legislation, because you are undermining, Minister, a proposal, an idea which, in principle, is correct, as I have said, is unfortunately being implemented in a completely wrong way. It is - and I do not think there is any doubt about that, that has been pointed out in committee and in plenary - by a fragmented legislative initiative that you are bringing. But most importantly, it is a legislative initiative which does not form part of any overall rationalisation of its higher education and association with the labour market. I think that our rapporteur, Mrs Keramemos, our parliamentary representative, and many Members of the New Democracy who have spoken, have shown both the committee and the plenary the basic faults of the whole operation. Let me just mention one. Legislation is made roughly and hastyly, without any criteria, without any study, without any specific plan. Like a plan, Minister, I have not heard of the map of higher education in the country as a whole. I see that with great comfort the Prime Minister is announcing the establishment of new schools. I mention as the most recent example the announcement he made in Patras on the establishment of a fourth legal school at the local university. And I wonder, Minister: all these announcements are the result of a comprehensive plan, of a study that has been carried out and which concludes that today we need even more graduates of legal schools, and these graduates are better to graduate from Patras than from another institution? As if we do not already have enough unemployed lawyers, who are very difficult to deal with today, and many are forced to resort to different professions. But on what basis do you proceed to all these moves? And how do you eventually link the number of graduates from higher education to the actual needs of the labour market? I'll tell you what you're doing. Make a nice announcement to a local audience, to collect applause from a local society, which, unfortunately, once again addicts to a logic that we can add schools or add classes only to satisfy local requirements. But that, Minister, does not constitute an integrated policy for higher education in our country. So you have brought a bill of unprepared nature, which, in our view, has nothing to do with modern reality, because you are running to prevent the computerized versions of this year's high school seniors, because Mr. Tsipras has just announced the operation of the University of Western Attica for this year. It is a bill, which is written on the leg and is done and implemented in this way only to collect votes, to announce a move of goodwill in an area of Lefkanope, which is rightly considered degraded. Let us therefore be honest, Minister, in this Chamber for your real intentions in relation to this draft law, which will now be the law. No serious administrative, economic or or academic criterion has been met for the integration of the Athens and Piraeus TEIs. In this draft law also follows a ministerial, centralised process, which devaluates the self-government of the HEIs, but ignores the IPI, the Quality Assurance and Certification Authority in higher education, which did not substantially contribute its know-how and its opinion to this legislation. And it is clear that when you were planning and writing this bill, you did not bear in mind the real upgrading of the country's technological education for that reason and merge on the substance of two TEIs, but no reference is made to the rest of the country's TEIs. That is why this initiative is not part of a concrete and structured plan to promote the applied sciences in our country. It does not address you - and our rapporteur has stressed - the fundamental issues of professional rights and the equivalency of graduates' diplomas. And the distortions caused by your sloppy intervention are many and the transitional treatments you predict will surely create much more and much greater problems. I think, Minister, in other words, that this bill is a lost opportunity sacrificed on the altar of easy populism. Because your policies as a whole in education are a mixture of ideas and inability. The applied sciences require their very nature to link the university to the market. It is something that you - not necessarily personally, but the space you represent - you have been ideologically abstracting and for years fighting this link between universities, IHIs or TEIs, with the market. We need autonomous and self-employed HEIs today. We do not need the Ministry of Education's annexes and of course we need open and safe universities and not protected hooded ghetto. So I will tell you very briefly how, in our view, such a reform should take place in the flesh and bones. First of all, we need to make it clear what the final objective is. In other words, we want to answer a basic question: what higher technical education do we want in the end in Greece? And once we have answered this central question, we will have to design the reforms relating to the existing system, so that we can achieve this objective gradually. In this context, it is clear that mergers and changes in curricula and new specialities and changes in professional rights will also be needed. However, without an overall framework, without a well-defined roadmap, any interventions will always be incomplete and always fragmented. For us, the priority is clear: substantial reinforcement of higher technological education. It is the trend that moves across Europe and around the world, with practically-oriented curriculum programmes in all cognitive fields. To say this in simpler terms: the real added value of unification of two institutions is not the creation of a new traditional type of technological university. It is the creation for the first time in our country - and this is the opportunity you are letting go lost - of a model university of applied sciences in West Attica, a university that can under conditions become a model for the whole Balkan region, become one of the best in Europe. This should be our vision not only for the merged new university of applied sciences in West Attica but also for the rest of the TEIs in the country. What should this university include? Schools and departments, which are geared exclusively to a dynamically changing labour market in specialties which, in fact, need not only the market of today, but especially the market of tomorrow, as it is rapidly shaped. We've said many times from this Step that we don't live in a stagnant world. Technological developments are rapid and we live in a world that experiences this, which we now call the fourth industrial revolution. In some years, not in a few decades, the working environment will have changed slowly and the supplies that will be requested by the new graduates of our universities will be completely different from those we provide today. For example, many employers tell us in public opinion surveys that are being done, that despite the fact that unemployment is 20%, it is difficult today to find workers with appropriate skills. In other words, we are soon at risk of finding ourselves in a situation where the Greek economy can develop in specific directions and not have the inspiring potential to serve new jobs, which we all hope will be created and lead the country along the road to growth. So this challenge, which is a systemic challenge involving the whole labour market and higher education, is not dealt with by mere mergers and division renamements. It may, of course, satisfy certain groups, it may be a false regional development, but it does not offer anything essential to the country's future. The new university of applied sciences, which at least I have in mind, what the Anglo-Saxon "University of Applied Sciences" would call the "University of Applied Sciences", gives great weight to the laboratory courses, but also to the practical exercise of the companies themselves, as is already largely done at the TEI. It emphasises the applied research, not so much theoretical, the basic research that is being done for businesses and for companies. It focuses on practical education and, of course, it ensures professional rights, which are most defined by the market and by professional organizations and less by the Ministry. This, of course, means that the university must be fully linked to the world of business and the reality of the market. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the President of the New Democracy is ringing.]] I'm gonna need two more minutes, Mr. President. For example, the University of West Attica can and must have a significant leading role in investigating, resolving major technical issues that concern the wider region of Western Attica. I mention examples: anti-military protection, for example in Mandra, which I visited for the third time in a hundred days and the government has made me ironic when no Minister has ever set foot in Mandra, not even the district minister. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The anti-military protection of West Athens, however, should be a field of applied research, where the University of West Attica could contribute. The decontamination and improvement of water in the Gulf of Elefsina, the way in which the port of Piraeus will be extended, but also Elefsina, the regeneration of the maritime repair zone in Perama, the management and recycling of waste – a great wound to the Lefkanos, but especially to the western Athens – the creation of a logistics centre in Triasios and how this is linked to the local economy and of course the technological modernisation of industrial production in Aspropyrgos. Here, let me make a special reference to the interest of the National Development and Reform Commission of the People's Republic of China, which is the Beijing State International Investment Arm, for targeted investments in Western Attica. And I say this in the light of the initiative, which has already been organized at the Athens TEI, where an organized office for exchanges and cooperation operates, with higher education institutions in the People's Republic of China. This is how applied sciences are progressing in the modern world, with a close and intact relationship with academic education institutions abroad, but with markets at the same time with international investors. My vision would therefore be to become the degraded Western Attica a "matrix" of new ideas and technologies, focusing on the new university of applied sciences. A true ecosystem of researchers, students, entrepreneurs, fully harmonised with the modern global trends of applied science. That's what students want, that's what teachers want - most of them - that's certainly what society wants. A revolution of ideas, a new educational model, which will replace today's TEIs and substantially upgrade the country's technological education. And the strengthening of higher technological education can only be done through a strategy for the creation of universities in applied sciences, but there - be careful - that there is the critical mass to be able to support them. Not everywhere, that is. Our policy, as we prepare it as a New Democracy, is a policy that is the result of concrete planning. It respects institutions, adopts and follows specific academic criteria and recognises that the interconnection of education with the market is a necessary and non-negotiable condition. It does not neglect principles such as the Quality Assurance and Certification Authority in Higher Education, the IPPC, to serve syndicate interests. Our policy is a policy which is responsible and long-term, is not voting, it is not a customer. It is a pity, in fact, that the initiative to create the University of Western Attica is full of maneuvers and will not ultimately lead to the implementation of this dream for a real model university of applied sciences, as I, at least, envision it, and as I have presented with very blurred lines of yours. I did not expect more than the current government. We are used to experimentation, which is very bad in the country and especially in the field of education, as I said at the beginning of which the ideological obsessions are manifested, but also the clienteles belonging to another era. And it is obvious that most of the government's initiatives have a central objective: to remain the current government in power through the construction of a new party state. But this is a Greece that we now have to leave behind. It's our duty to be ready to drive the country to the next day. And we're ready. That is why I went up to Stepma today to guarantee that the University of Western Attica, even in this way that is being founded today, will eventually follow the path that he really deserves. I will personally engage in making the best university of applied sciences in the country and - why not? - one of the best in Europe. We owe it to an area that has been facing the state's indifference for years and for which a strong university of applied sciences must be not only a lighthouse for development, but also a pillar of local pride. I close with the following observation: I want the child from Aegean at some point, who is in primary school today, when the time comes to complete his computer and choose his university, to choose the University of West Attica not as a second or third option, as is often the case with many TEIs, but as the first option, which will ensure that he will acquire knowledge and skills useful to distinguish himself from a competitive labour market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, too. Mr. Dimitrios Tsanakopoulos has the floor under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u142	In relation to the placement of the Chief of Officer's Reconciliation, something went through my mind when I was informed that Mr. Mitsotakis will come to Stepma. I thought I wouldn't say it. However, the fact that he gave a personal tone in the speech and expressed his willingness to personally guarantee the future and the course of the University of Western Attica, I think he would allow me to make a comment that I think this speech was more reminiscent of who is the Head of the New Democracy and less of a basic position on the issues of education. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Yeah, that's all. Don't you like them? [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] I'm glad you're responding, because that means we hit some nerve here. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] I think the difference between the government and the Civilian Representation Officer is now fully illustrated, embodied. What is this difference and what is it? In the case of Mrs Antonopoulou, with whom the Chief of Staff has opened up his post, what do we have? We have a confessed misuse of a provision of law, which I would remind you has not only voted for by SYRIZA - ANEL.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u143	It refers to the memorandum, Mr. Janakopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u144	Listen a little.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u145	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u146	Have you seen her? It was adopted on 14 August 2015 by the entire Greek Parliament. Poor thing. That is why there is already a clear desire for the government to abolish this provision. No non-parliamentary minister has made use of Mrs Antonopoulou's wrong choice. And what do we have? We have resigned because of the irritation and acceptance of the resignation by the Greek Prime Minister. What's the matter now? I wonder how many days it will pass until those who are allegedly involved in the NOVARTIS scandal resign for the same reasons of enthusiasm from their duties. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So why don't you quit, too, until your name is cleared, Mr. Georgiadis? You can answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u147	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u148	There's no staff. Have a seat quietly.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u149	So I wonder how many days Mr. Mitsotakis will pass from Vice President of his party, Mr. Georgiadis, not only for the reasons he has to do with the 'NOVARTIS' scandal, but also with something more, for reasons relating to his disgraceful and inadmissible attitude to the Prime Minister of the country and the fact that he uses a language that he obviously considers absolutely peculiar, follow the editorial...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u150	And that's for me!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u151	...which he considers absolutely ruthless, but with which he is absolutely insulting not only the Greek Government, I would say much less the Greek Government and much less the New Democracy's very very very very own. I do not know whether there are many of those self-determined as liberals from the New Democracy party, who feel happy, satisfied, when they hear such positions being made either by the Step of the House or by the media. So, how many days will it spend until the scapegoat? How many days will it take, I wonder, until the New Democracy's political responsibility has been recognised for what happened in the drug field between 2000 and 2010 and 2015? [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] If I remember correctly, the Government New Democracy was from 2004 to 2009 and from 2011 to 2015. Is the New Democracy responsible for how the prices of the medicinal product were managed over the ten years in the government, yes or no? These are the big political questions! I am very surprised that Mr Mitsotakis found the courage to come here to denounce the current government for a moral deficit when you were hiding lists and slots in the drawers of your ministries. You have EUR 200 million loans. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Mrs Antonopoulou, the 12,000 euros will be returned, will you return the 200 million that you received from the banks? These are the big questions! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] You have stared at every small and great scandal of post-multipleism, but when it comes to giving account, you speak of vessels, hoodmen and political persecutions, attempted to eliminate political opponents. By who? From Greek justice? By Greek judges? Say it. Have the courage, as Mr Samaras has filed a complaint against public prosecutors, to go out and report on your staff by saying specific names, who are the public prosecutors who are collaborating with the Greek Government. Do you have the courage?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u152	But we've been through this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u153	Come out and say it again, Mr. Voridis, I challenge you directly. Go out and say it, but with names. Say it by names.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u154	But we've been through names.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u155	Say the names of the Ice Arg's Deputy Prosecutors, the Prosecutor of the Ice Arena, the Vice-Public Prosecutors. I challenge you directly, Mr. Voridis, to name the names. Mr. Samaras has sued. Let's get this over with. As far as safety is concerned, because I was asked a specific question - the rest for education will be said by Mr Gavroglou - the sensitivity to the security of the New Democracy and its President, the Chief of Officerial Response, is a la carte. Do you know how many attacks Mr. Flambury's residence has been taken over the last two years?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u156	We condemned them all.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u157	And we haven't condemned them? Do you know how many times members or members of the Greek Government have been targeted? That's not the point. It is not a question of settling the attacks, and if the one who accepts the attack is from the same or the wrong party, ours or yours. The question is how to deal with the problem. And the problem is not confronted with the reason New Democracy had chosen to deal with it in the period 2012-2015, with general repression, with the arrests in the pile. On the contrary, in this way, all you have done is to intensify the problem in Greek society and especially in Athens. The way the problem is dealt with is professionally, it is serious, it is responsible, and that is what the Greek Police are doing today, and that is precisely why we have concrete and tangible results in improving the safety conditions and conditions both in Athens and in the rest of Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u158	Mr President, I would like to speak on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u159	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u160	Mr. Georgiades, wait a minute. Listen. You are Vice President of the New Democracy. Alas, if every time it sounds...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u161	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u162	Wait a minute. It's like every time the term sounds...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u163	Mr President, give me a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u164	Listen to me. I'm not here to say hi here, okay? I am saying that the word 'President of the New Democracy' and Mr Mitsotakis should be heard every time. You can't do that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u165	He said 'Mr Georgiadis'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u166	He said it three times.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u167	Please, too! I'm here to make sure...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u168	The Rules of Procedure, which says that, when the name of a person is mentioned, it has the right to request the floor and to be placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u169	Excuse me, listen. Your name...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u170	You'll give me a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u171	Mr. Georgiades, I say this. There's equality here, there's enthusiasm...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u172	You'll give me a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u173	No, it does not become a 'personnel' industry. We must respect this House, our colleagues who sit and listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u174	Mr President, I expect you to give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u175	Where did you respect this House when Mr. Janakopoulos was talking about Mr. Georgiadis?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u176	Didn't he have the right to take the floor? For God's sake, Mr. Chiara!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u177	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u178	Let me tell you what's going on. Listen. For reasons of segregation, there are no loopholes and privileges here. That's right. Mr. Javarra, you have asked for the floor. You'll take him to explain why you want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u179	Give me a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u180	All right, take a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u181	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u182	Mr. Janakopoulos, I'm not here...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u183	I regret that the Government's intervention was required to implement the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u184	No, you're wrong. Is that how you're doing? You don't have the floor then. Mr. Janakopoulos is not chaired. I'm chairing. Do you hear it well? This is a Greek Parliament. It's over and out.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u185	Apply his rules then.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u186	Are you serious? Is the rule in here Mr. Adonis Georgiadis? Is that the rule? Make sure you find out the rules. Okay? I protect you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u187	We don't want protection.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u188	Mr. Metarakis, if you don't want to, quit protection.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u189	Minister, listen, first of all, because I won't resign. I am not going to resign because Mr. Tsipras and Mrs. Papaspyrou...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u190	Is that personal now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u191	...your second mother, Mrs. Thanou and Mr. Papagelopoulos set up this construction. And be careful where I know. You are very smart and said 'to sue the FBI as well'. For an hour, Mr. Ambassador of the United States of America has announced that no investigation is taking place on any Greek politician. That's why we don't sue the FBI and we do to you. Because you set it up. Second, because you talked about Mrs. Antonopoulou and us...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u192	Ladies and gentlemen, is that the staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u193	Listen. And Mr. Papadimitri was taking the money.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u194	I address to you, New Democracy: Is this the staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u195	So, together, the resignation had to go. And thirdly, if anyone whose name is mentioned in the case-file has to resign, I must tell you that he is also referring to Mr Kurublis, Mr Xanthos and Mr Polakis the document that you have concealed. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So they have to quit too!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u196	It's over one minute! It's over! Mr. Gabroglou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u197	And after my statement in the preliminary...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u198	Turn off the microphone! It's over!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u199	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u200	It's a shame to close the microphone!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u201	First of all, don't yell, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u202	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u203	Guard, guard!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u204	Excuse me. Wait a minute. Once Mr Matetarakis says so, he has no value. Let's go down. It has no value.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u205	It's a shame to close the microphone!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u206	You closed the mic from the vice president!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u207	He asked for the floor for a minute. Is that personal now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u208	I want the floor on staff!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u209	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u210	No, Mr. Janakopoulos, you have nothing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u211	Mr President, get off the Chair, because you personally offended me and I want the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u212	Please, too!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u213	You insulted me!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u214	Sit down!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u215	Mr President, I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u216	I will give the floor to Mr. Janakopoulos and then to Mr. Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u217	Mr President, you insulted me and you have no such right. I want it written in the Minutes that you insulted me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u218	Sit down. What you said in the Minutes will be written.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u219	I want you to give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u220	You don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u221	You said something at my expense.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u222	Look at the video what you said before. Okay? Look at the video.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u223	Shame on you! I'm asking for the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u224	Have a seat, have a seat. You don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u225	I am not sitting, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u226	You don't have the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u227	I want to answer!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u228	But this thing can't be done. Understand? Allow me. One should remind this House that this is a Greek Parliament and that the Bureau is not blackmailed every time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u229	That's right, Mr. Voridis, you either like it or you don't like it. Sit down. [[Noise - protests from the New Democracy Wing]] Didn't I apply the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u230	Read what the Rules say. When you are asked for the floor on staff, you are obliged to give him and listen to the development of staff. Then judge if there is, and if there is no, end the conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u231	Mr. Voridis, listen to me. This isn't a courtroom. So, Mr. Georgiadis' speech was to establish the staff? Are you serious?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u232	That's the rule. You give the floor for a minute, and if there is no staff, the conversation is over. That's what he says.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u233	Listen, Mr. Voridis. I don't want to use that microphone. The good referee passes unnoticed. However, it presupposes applying the 'fair play'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u234	Don't say now about "fair play"...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u235	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u236	Sit down now, Mr. Metarakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u237	You should call on me to sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u238	I'm not rescinding. And tell you why? For what you said earlier. Did you hear what you were saying? If the language of your mind is ahead of me, I have no responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u239	"Your disgrace," I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u240	There you go! You get it back?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u241	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u242	Hey, sit down then! Mr. Gabroglou has the floor, and then Mr. Javarras.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u243	Mr President, I am a parliamentary representative...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u244	Who are you addressing now, Mr. Papatheodorou? I mean, where we were owed, they took the ox. Here you go, Mr. Javarra, what would you like?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u245	Subject: In accordance with Rule 66 of the Rules of Procedure, when the House meets on a legislative agenda, the government has the floor. It is also a competent minister who proposes the bill or the one who has tabled an amendment. The first problem, therefore, arises from all this disorder, is why you gave Mr Janakopoulos the floor without being entitled to take him, firstly, because he does not have any part in this legislative function and, secondly, because he at least had to respect that he was speaking here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u246	Good. Did you say so? Are you done?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u247	And now I'll answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u248	Wait a minute!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u249	What are you talking about, Mr President? Well, do you have your own regulations here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u250	About what you said, I'd like to say something. Finish and I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u251	I'm not done. I said first.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u252	Mr President, there is no time to take it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u253	Is that my fault?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u254	I'm sorry. I didn't hear the first one. I didn't hear it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u255	Secondly, Mr Janakopoulos came to us without having the right to speak, and we did not make any objections, because we in this Chamber want everyone in this Chamber to contribute to a peaceful and civilised dialogue that enhances and enhances parliamentary democracy, which is based on arguments. I was therefore expecting Mr Janakopoulos as legal and colleague to listen to arguments. Unfortunately, he took over from the worst and most phony attendances of his party and created the impression that in the words of the President of the Parliamentary Group, who actually spoke about the bill, but also made two references to the current situation, there was the slightest, any attempt to evacuate this dialogue. And the first thing he raised what it was? What the Prime Minister himself consented that it was morally unacceptable that his Deputy Minister, Ms Antonopoulou, behaved to seek an allowance that was not entitled under the law. It is, if I am not mistaken, that Mr No.3663/2015, which you yourself voted on to give out-of-parliamentarians this allowance, which only Members take it from the province. So, since the Prime Minister himself had this moral misconduct of his Minister, not only did he accept it and recognize it, but he thought it was so serious for his understanding that he would draw and accept her resignation, I wonder why, Mr Janakopoulou, you came here to move our finger and with the pretext to tell us what? The self-evident thing?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u256	You moved the finger.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u257	Good, Mr. Jawara! We've heard you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u258	Third.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u259	There's a third one?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u260	And now we are going to the NOVARTIS case.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u261	Time is not respected, Mr President. He's been talking a long time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u262	I'm done. I now come to the question of 'NOVARTIS'. Mr. Janakopoulos, are you, as a lawman, satisfied with the way your Government has dealt with this particular matter beforehand?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u263	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u264	Because - if you would like me to tell you something about what you are doing today - you appear on a completely opportune matter, before the plenary sitting on legislative work, when the plenary, when it exercises a judicial authority - excellent competence for Parliament, I say it and I repeat - Article 86, has already given a decision setting up and, where appropriate, a special parliamentary committee to carry out a preliminary examination. In other words, it will investigate whether or not the conditions are met for the prosecution of those ten persons. Look out!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u265	Wait a minute. Mr. Javarra...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u266	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u267	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u268	So I ask you: in this judicial body, in your statements today, you are not trying to influence it? Is this compatible with your status as a Government representative and with the function which this committee has undertaken, which is purely legal? And secondly...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u269	Mr. Javarra, listen to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u270	Will you let me talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u271	Let me remind you of something.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u272	There are institutional issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u273	Will you let me talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u274	Let me tell you something. You spoke...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u275	Why are you afraid of the reason?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u276	Is that it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u277	Only totalitarian regimes have fear of enthusiasm and pity.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u278	Yes, fear is mistaken from Mr. Javarra's word here now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u279	Why are you afraid of the reason?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u280	There's a great fear of your word. Let me tell you something. You're getting over it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u281	So you don't want the issues on one side to be answered by the rival?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u282	Listen to me!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u283	Don't you want there to be a controversy? Do you want there to be only a monologue? Is that the democratic sensitivity you have? I'm sorry and I'm sad.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u284	When the speech becomes monologue...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u285	Is it monologue that I answer? Is the answer monologue?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u286	Wait a minute. Mr. Javarra... [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Quiet, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u287	And I'm ending up...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u288	Mr. Javarra, listen to me. You spoke as a parliamentary representative. You have taken the floor before your President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u289	It's missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u290	Now you're using what?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u291	Possibly, Mr President, to ignore and...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u292	Whose thing are you using?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u293	Let me tell you a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u294	What a minute? Tell me, what thing?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u295	I say, because when the President of the Parliament is absent, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, he is represented by the parliamentary representative. So you're obliged to give me the floor. And even though you don't want to, you're obligated to tolerate me as a speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u296	You spoke as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u297	Now I'm talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u298	Didn't you speak before your president?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u299	I have a right to intervene...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u300	For how long?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u301	...I have a right to dentistry. I have a tritology right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u302	For how long?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u303	The Rules of Procedure say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u304	You've exhausted everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u305	Tritology, for how long?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u306	I have a matter. And the third...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u307	Mr. Javarra, would you like to facilitate the debate?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u308	Why don't you leave me, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u309	We'd be done now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u310	We'd be done. And I address again to Mr Janakopoulos and ask him: 'Are you satisfied with the way in which the case-file went and came to the public prosecutors, and even under the guiding suggestions of the director of the Prime Minister's legal office, for which the decision was taken yesterday, opinion and outcry of the entire judiciary expressed by the Union of Judges and Prosecutors?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u311	You're done, Mr. Javarra. Ask the question! And perfect!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u312	I believe, Minister, that you are, in fact, obliged to be sensitive to what the Association of Judges and Prosecutors of Greece says.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u313	Good. Mr. Janakopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u314	Because these are very serious things. And at the very last moment you must understand that it is played by players and you are creating a problem with democratic institutions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u315	Good. It's over. Mr. Janakopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u316	Is Janakopoulos going to talk now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u317	Now does he have a right?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u318	Well, I'll answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u319	Thank you, Mr. Javarra, for giving me the honour. Thank you. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Well, as far as the Vice President's previous position is concerned, if I speak to the third inhabitant, I guess there's no staff. Isn't that right? Isn't that the rule? - Vice President I, Vice President II, I don't know exactly what his position is. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] In any case, I would like to say this: if the complaints she intends to make against the Prime Minister are as real as it relates to the reality of what is going on the channels and she says that Mrs Papaspyrous is my second mother, then the Prime Minister really has nothing to fear about. Now, with regard to the FBI and the statements by the American Ambassador, it is important to wait and see exactly what the American Ambassador's statements were. If I'm not mistaken, what he's alleged to say came up after the New Democracy leaks. So hold a small basket, Mr. Georgiadis. I hope you don't get the floor on staff and that's why.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u320	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u321	Good! We are now going to the issue of Mr Kurubli, because you are putting an issue that arises from a publication. Do you know that there is this document?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u322	Of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u323	How do you know, Mr. Georgiadis?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u324	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u325	Yes, sir. Well, in any case, the question is this. In the transmission that came to the Greek Parliament, there were ten known names. From there on, there was also a complaint made - if I am not mistaken - by Mr Loverdos and Mrs Christophilopoulou, who had nothing to do with the NOVARTIS case. So if you want to proceed after a new transfer, which will take place, if there are what you think there are, in a proposal in plenary to prosecute, here we are to discuss it, to see what your business lines will be, in any case, and to see where the whole debate will end. Here we go. What are you worried about? Now, with regard to the questions raised to me by Mr Javarras, I will say very soon that I am absolutely satisfied. Nothing uninstitutional has been done - nothing at all. Do you continue to repeat all this paraphilis, why? Because you do not want to go to the bottom of the debate. You don't want to talk about the real scandal. You want to settle.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u326	You don't want to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u327	In fact, in the procedural procedure you are also legally wrong, because something uninstitutional has not been done. What do we got? We have forwarded a file from the Prosecutor of Corruption to the Prosecutor of the Ice Award, the Prosecutor of the Ice Award sends the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Justice sends the Greek Parliament, and what is the only option that the Greek Parliament has? Whether to bury the case, not to do something or to set up a Preliminary Examination Parliamentary Committee. What for? To investigate whether he has competence. She's the only one who can say that. The committee itself will decide whether it has competence. And if it does not have competence, it will do the right thing. Therefore, do not constantly argue, because you are also legally wrong, beyond the political injustice that follows you. Now, with regard to the influence of justice by political statements, to make political criticism, to draw political conclusions or to make political defects, it is in no way an influence or interference in the work of justice, whether it is exercised by the preliminary committee or exercised by regular justice. You know that much better than I do. Intervention in justice in a completely different way means, if you want to speak closely legally - and it would be good to remember that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u328	Thank you. Mr. Gabroglou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u329	Thank you, Mr President. Today, as we said in the morning, it is a flagrant day, but I really didn't expect it to be so emblematic, because for the first time I think the New Democracy Chief has made it clear what it means to upgrade TEIs. It's interesting, and when things are clear, it's very good. Admittedly, for the first time, a working group has been set up which meets in cooperation with all universities and all the relevant ministries to map out the issue of infraction. I would therefore ask that we protect the validity of this committee so that we can see in what context the problem will be formulated with its answers. Mr. Mitsotakis said there is a central philosophical difference here. I welcome that, because there is indeed a central philosophical difference here. He said we should raise the subject of technological education first. But, so many decades, why didn't that come? Can someone tell me?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u330	I'll answer you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u331	Once, Mrs. Antoniou, and you remember the answer to the problem? It was called "Athens". The project "ATHENA" was a project that blew TEIs in the air. That was the answer to the question. So here I welcome the fact that there is a search for this question. And the answer was given - and it really needs to be welcomed by Parliament - extremely conspicuously composed by Mr Mitsotakis. The key is universities of applied sciences.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u332	You don't do that, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u333	That's what we don't want to do. That's what we've got chaotic differences in. And I'll tell you: So nowadays - and I would ask you if it is not the literature, to bring it to you and, if you like - the distinction between theoretical research and applied research is now over. These are logics of the '30s, logic of the '50s, go back to '70s. It's over! Universities of applied sciences around the world give professional degrees, do not normally give degrees, which is why they do not do doctorals. So, what's the trick? You say that I want to do a university of applied sciences, that is, a university for the labour market for the 'déeranza', for those children who should not go to university. In Greek, do you know what this is called? class university. Classical tertiary education. That is what we are opposed to, then, too. There's a philosophical difference. I am pleased that it has been made clear for the first time. Mr Mitsotakis said that this is where we want these children to go to the universities of applied science. Please, because it is the internet too, to read the literature on the subject, to come after - you have no reason to know everything I say - and therefore to discuss the chaos, the great difference between the upgrading of higher education and the upgrading of 'university of Applied Sciences'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u334	At this university, philosophical school can be done? Because there are theoretical sciences.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u335	Now, Mr. Bourra, am I making a mistake with the right to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u336	Listen, my dear Mr. Bourra. A university does not only characterize it as a philosophical school. It describes it, for example, as a school of artistic arts, and it is one thing that could well be done at the University of West Attica, because it is a university. And I'm ending up with the spacious about fourth law school. Please read what the Prime Minister told Patras. He said: 'We will study this matter'. And please don't cover the legal schools that every year the incumbents announced send complaints to the Ministry because so many enter. Well, glorious glorious field. Separate it by four, not by three. What's the problem? Be fewer in each, the same invaders. Let's study it. And at the same time, we should study for Itolokarnania to become a center of agronomics, Elias becoming a centre of culture, etc. For us the upgrade is upgraded to all material. And there, I am pleased that you are applauding the establishment of the two-year structures, which you are two-year-old structures, provide a way out for the higher education of children by the PES. Because to children from the ESDP, now we must be the first to tell them that they are not children of a lower god. So they have many choices - and they must be - to convince the Greek society to take the children there. Going there, not to become a cheap workforce, but to become citizens with judgment and skills. This is our excellence. It's not about splitting into groups of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u337	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the "Eleftherios Venizelos" Hall and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-three students and four teachers from the 1st High School of Leros. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Please, Mr. Papatheodorou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u338	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, the Rules of Procedure runs without any problem and are maintained by both the speakers and the Bureau. We'll talk in the end about it, though. Minister, out of respect alone, I should like to begin with what you have said, but Mr Janakopoulos precedes it. And Mr Janakopoulos is ahead of us for the following reason I would like to mention to you. You know, the problem is not Mrs Antonopoulou's assets, whether or not she had money to rent a house. Not at all. I happen to be Minister of Foreign Affairs in the 2012 Government, and I have to tell you that there were several extra-parliamentarians and many extra-parliamentary ministers who came from the region. Not only did such a question of compensation ever arise, but on the other hand, for the first time, this issue was raised on the day you came to vote on the memorandum. So, where you were supposed to save your homeland, you were saving the lot. And you saved the lot because who was the Minister of Finance coming? There was no Minister of Finance. It's not Mrs. Antonopoulou's fault. Mr. Tsipras, the day he brought the third memorandum, in July 2015, thought that it was necessary for this paragraph to enter. That is what the 'first time on the left' did, to explain. And he did so not only to cover the costs of the extra-parliamentary ministers, but he did so in many other cases. So much consciousness of her role at that time was. That's our difference. Mr Jianakopoulos dealt with security issues, but above all I must tell you, Minister, that I have indeed read your communication today on the occupation of the EKT by solidaritys in support of Doctorzoglou, who, according to the police, is a key person in terrorism. And you have indeed made a statement, Minister, saying that you are a member - I am pleased about that - with the dean of the ETUC. Bravo! At the same time you say that you are calling on the occupants to leave the dean. They are forty people who kicked out hundreds of employees and did not work today. Why didn't you call your colleague, Mr. Toska, not send the police, but ask them to come out so that there's no problem with the functioning of the EMCDDA. How do you work with the university exactly? Are you part of calling the captives to come out? And if they don't come out in two or three days, what are you gonna do? However, you have missed an opportunity today, because the Roman student movement will be absent for a few days, to perform your duties as Minister of Education, in other words to inform your colleague and inform him that there is a question of security for the workers and students in the ETUC. That's what you had to do. You didn't! Let's go to the bill now. You referred earlier to the Government's flagship initiative to set up a new university, the University of West Attica - I read in the explanatory memorandum - using the method of reabsorbing it. This is very original: Merge by absorbing the TEI of Athens and Piraeus. I believe that it is necessary, ladies and gentlemen, to table a debate in plenary on the real situation. It is actually about abolishing two TEIs, and this is one of the country's best ratings internationally for the establishment of a university, the third largest in the country, as stated in the explanatory memorandum, by way of summary procedures, on the basis of the academic standards and the professional rights of students. It is the method of not absorbing, but of baptism, because by baptism you have managed to make the two TEIs a university. A year ago the government was celebrating the national dialogue on education. Despite the well-known conclusion of this direct dialogue, the Ministry has never informed interested parties of the new plans for the establishment of a university and the automation attempted by the new bill. Therefore, without any debate on this subject in the context of the national dialogue on education, without institutionally analysing the need for a new academic charter, the Ministry proceeds to a customer-like baptism of sections, cognitive objects and infrastructures with fast track procedures that create reasonable suspicion, if not certainty, for the purposes of this initiative. Universification takes place without scientific criteria. The universityisation of the two TEIs is attempted without an opinion from the IPPC, as provided for in the 2017 Act, which you voted for, you recommended, without an opinion from the ESRB. This is clearly explained by the belief that in particular the IPPC, the Independent Quality Assurance Authority, could not give a positive opinion on such a rough legislative initiative with fragmentary provisions, without academic and scientific criteria. The objections of the President of the Quality Assurance and Certification Authority to Education, Ms Paisidou, who has been problematic about the way in which it was decided to integrate existing curricula of the institutions of the higher education sector into institutions of the university sector. This should be done following an evaluation of all the structural elements of the curriculum, nature and their purpose, cognitive object and structure in the courses of available teaching staff and related infrastructure. None of this happened. But do you know what the Scientific Council of Parliament says about that? It says that this is a conversion, which is permitted if a university is transformed into an establishment in a technology field, but you cannot do the opposite if this initiative is not sufficiently justified in the explanatory statement. It's not justified. Indeed, it expresses constitutional concerns as to whether this is constitutionally correct. I hear the Minister this morning saying that everyone agrees and there is a climate of consensus. There is no climate of consensus. None. And there is no reason why the Committee of the Regions has expressed its opposition to the proposal from the point of view that the proposal does not meet academic criteria, UCLAF has said the same, UCLAF TEI stressed its disagreement with the whole project and finally the mergers, abolitions and uplifts of departments and schools were made using the method of cutlery. We're taking a few parts out of here, cutting them out of there, making a school that doesn't have a uniform content on the other hand, and where do we get these from? From departments, which existed at the TEI of Athens and TEI of Piraeus, most of them operated with recognized professional rights. Parts with recognized professional rights in the technological field are therefore being abolished in order to establish, for example, the four-year-old civil engineering department for graduates, so second-class graduates, because, as you know, in the other multi-technical and multi-technical schools politicians are five-year-olds. The lunatic seems to be captured in the computer. Universities are established in cognitive objects, some of which do not correspond to internationally recognised university-level cognitive objects or have no distinct, autonomous character or others which are applied science and which do so theoretically, such as part of obstetrics, graphics, visual communication. This is, in our view, a legislative curiosity, which will be called upon by their parents and families to pay, in order to obtain what you consider to be voters. At the same time, you are indifferent to the thousands of graduates of these TEIs, associated categories, which, through the confusion created in the labour market, will put their professional rights and prospects into doubt. Ladies and gentlemen, it was the PASOK that founded the TEIs by the 1983 Act. He promoted their ranking by the laws of 2001 and 2002. Today, the Government of SYRIZA and ANEL, with design and feasibility, abolishes the distinct role of the technology and the university sector of higher education, which was guaranteed even in the 2011 Act, as was the law of 2001 and 2002, but with greater clarity. It limits the choices of ESDP students. They give financial criteria and incentives to universities for the absorption of certain sections of regional technological institutions from the respective universities in order to dissolve the rest of the TEI, with the wicked promise to set up two-year university structures, at the same time as the whole of Europe turns to aid, evaluation, promotion of the technological sector in secondary and tertiary education. This is the reality of the so-called flagship initiative: the shrinking of TEIs - which is what serves, among other things, the interests of current government choices and not the upgrading of the technological sector. At the same time, students are offered the prospect of being introduced to TEIs and getting a degree from a university. Really, the undergraduate students today of the two dismantled TEIs from where will they get a degree? With what formula will you resurrect the abolished TEIs, so that these students can get a degree at the end of their efforts? Also, for the LAG members, the Ministry reserves the degradation of academic processes. Thus, with the bill under discussion, members of TEIs are part of their respective grades at the new university and will be evaluated by committees designated by the Minister of Education. In addition to the lightness of the permanent regular positions, there is a resumption of the grade of the lecturer that has been abolished in the framework of the law and, finally, what should make us wonder about the purposes of the government is that the government is aware that such a procedure puts the self-interest of the universities at risk, but also the elections to be held by the elite bodies. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like your tolerance, Mr President. Therefore, this means degrading the authority of teachers and canceling the self-employed of universities. What you are characterizing as the future third university in the country is based on a weak legislative grid, without certification and evaluation procedures, with automated conversions and without reliable academic structures. At the same time, you are intervening in secondary education, completely changing the disciplines of teachers, without any updates to the educational graduates of HEI technology, asking questions about how the awards of courses will be made, namely, first, second and third awards in the future and leaving the prospect of leaving these teachers out as an assistant training staff free of charge. And of course you are creating problems with Article 33. Minister, the problem of two-year pre-school education was first put into PASOK by the 1985 law. The problem today is that you want to set up a two-year period in kindergartens, when there are no structures to enable children to receive, and you put this in a transitional period of three years. Remove the device, set up the structures and come, because it is the best interests of children, apply it when there are structures, when there will be nurses when four years can go and have the opportunity to eat at noon, be able to stay late and come and take them, so that it is a complete structure. Until then, withdraw it, because experiments with four and five-year-olds are not good for them to be done and they do not honor anyone. The government has been experimenting a dead end with education for three years. It legislates what it believes and implements measures of incredible educational regression not by randomity, but by feasibility. Minister, I would like to address you at the end with an amendment that you have tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u339	And close with that, Mr. Papatheodorou.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u340	I asked you a question from October 25, 2017 for the CEO of the National Certification Agency. I never got an answer. I was telling you then that the nomination took place, and it was in papers that she had been carrying out a legal appointment, which she had covered in her appointment by a falsely responsible statement. It has been a contributor on several occasions in exchange for the EPPC's money. Therefore, it seems that the responsible statement is false. There's another nullity. One of the main conditions is not met, namely that if there is a Ministerial Decision in question, it is lacking in its secondment. I have never received an answer because it seems that the matter was too difficult to answer from the Ministry's services.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u341	Will you finish, Mr. Papatheodorou?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u342	I'll be done. I see today, Minister, in the amendment that you have tabled this fabulous, that is, that there is no need for secondment. You are answering me through the amendment to cover a period of the director-in-Office completely illegal, not only illegal, but also with the workers having filed a complaint against her and you are coming to cover this illegality, saying that retroactively in these positions there is no need to second them. I tell you that experiments often come with cover for what SYRIZA has been trying for so long, another training set up, completely controlled, and that you prove that every time: Good and good. That is why we have no reservations about not supporting this bill. It simply comes as a 'block'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u343	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u344	Mr President, let me conclude by saying that I have something to say about the Rules of Procedure and how you kept it. It simply comes as a 'block' for purely voting reasons.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u345	Excuse me, do you want to say that...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u346	Mr President, you will allow me to make a comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u347	Mr. Papatheodorou, because your speaking time is twelve minutes, do you mean I don't follow the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u348	Mr. President, yes. I mean, not only did you not respect the Rules of Procedure, but you were the one who allowed Mr Janakopoulos four times to speak and not as a secondary. You gave the floor for ten minutes to the Minister when the Rules of Procedure provide for two minutes. You have been trespassed and did not respect the fact that it is the Bureau that observes the Rules of Procedure and does not mock him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u349	I don't think it's worth answering. First of all, Mr Cremastinos was right to give the floor to Mr Janakopoulos. There is a specific article in the Rules of Procedure that provides for it. I guess some people didn't have time to be informed. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u350	Mr President, can you read the article to us? What article are you referring to?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u351	What article? Tell us specifically.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u352	Go ahead, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u353	Mr President, I would like to make a limited speech on one or two points. My general position is this, Mr President. As far as I have been following the procedure today - because I am not a member of the Committee on Formatic Affairs - and if I understood well from majority Members' positions and not just, this draft law is a ruptured rupture. You hear from everywhere about special settings, outside of the theme content that settles "stays". In this context, I also consider that a parliamentary amendment has been tabled, which I would like to place right at the heart of my position. Parliamentary amendment has been tabled - I do not remember the names of colleagues - related to the 'Pan-Hellenic Holy Foundation of the Evangelist Tinos'. As Minister of Education, I have added to the Charter of the Church the exact opposite of the rules in today's amendment. Why did I do that? Why did I suddenly find out what's going on in Tinos with an institution and I immediately thought about regulating his administration? Oh, no. On the contrary, on the subject of the Charter of the Church, this is not the time to think about a minister and to take a legislative initiative. It's just backwards. From the church's site thoughts are produced for its rules of procedure and after their internal procedures have been exhausted, they are put to the Minister's attention and he decides whether to take a legislative initiative or not to take it. However, she has the opinion of the church on a matter concerning her. Here we have the exact opposite. As far as I am concerned, an amendment is accepted without the church's opinion being formulated in the preamble. On the contrary, without consulting her, this attempt is being made and on this attempt, the church of Greece has issued a communication stating that what is the amendment you have signed, my dear fellow Member? Whatever has been rejected in the Council of State, you're coming to bring it here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u354	It wasn't rejected.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u355	You're wrong. Whatever has been rejected by the Council of State, you're coming to bring it here. On the substance of the matter, the House is a sovereign body and decides. This is an undeniable reality. However, if you read a page of a manual of Church law, you will understand that there is a reasoning and a line on these matters. Where there are rights recognised by the Greek Constitution itself and the state of rights of a quasi-legislative initiative, the Greek state has always respected these things, except you. You go backwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u356	What are you talking about? For God's sake!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u357	For this reason, Mr President, as far as this particular issue is concerned, I would point out that the government must take its amendment back, go to the normal procedure and, after it has proceeded with the normal procedure, let the government itself take the responsibility, not to blame its Members, but to take the decision to take it, to propose it to Parliament and Parliament to vote. And since we are talking about amendments, I should like to say that there is an amendment that has long been in this House on another subject, not on the subject of the Ministry of Education, which concerns a minister who is a Member of Parliament. I kept her because I found her very useful and serious. In the end, it's not being submitted. There, why do you not have courage, ladies and gentlemen of the majority? It is the case that all the issues of '9.84' are settled, which will relieve the stress of unemployment, redundancy and the dismantling of workers at the station. The majority of you have received the text which we are asked to discuss here and, if we consider it appropriate, decide on it. Finally, I come to the Ministry of Education. As far as the new institution is concerned, this PPA is provided for in the law, that for a first transitional period, the administration of this institution in respect of the presidency of departments or quasi-costs, is to be held by the members of scientific and teaching staff. That's why? Why do you have this obsession with the draws? If it is necessary to move - correctly - the most important thing is to create the administrative conditions for the formation of the institutions - which really takes time - rather than going by draws, to change the regulation and to go with antiquity. Priority with regard to university institutions plays a role. It's about experience. I'm not saying they're always better scientists, not at all. However, if something is to be run, a safer criterion, a safer presumption of administrative skill is to have experience than to get you out of the draw because someone will pull your lottery. I think you can change that until you invite the House to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u358	And I thank you for respecting time. I said that Mr. Cremastino did well and gave the floor to Mr. Janakopoulos. I read Rule 66(2): "The ministers and the State Secretarys have free access to the sittings of the Parliament and are heard whenever they request the floor".
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u359	The Ministers responsible. You don't understand me when I speak Greek.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u360	I read you on the article.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u361	The Ministers responsible. Can you imagine having a parade of Ministers here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u362	"Ministers" says and well he did and gave him the floor. Since there is no self-respect here, I have said it to the Conference of Presidents regarding the respect of time. In my opinion, when time is running out, the speech must be brought to an end. I cannot impose self-respect on anyone in this Chamber. It's over! Mr. Xydakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u363	Thank you, Mr President. The room returns to normal pace. I would also like to thank those colleagues who have taken care of this reintroduction, because the previous picture was a little savage. Mr Loverdos made an intervention for a regulation which concerns him. Indeed, we have prepared a parliamentary amendment which seeks with all honesty and seriousness the restoration of tradition. It concerns the "Pan-Hellenic Foundation of Evangelistia Tinos", which has been operating since 1824 as a pan-Hellenic institution and since 1825, with the testament of the owners, before the establishment of the Greek state, the manner of operation, the way of administration and the purposes of the Foundation. It is one of the oldest institutions in the Greek state and has operated undisturbedly for two centuries, with the will of the farmers. This is the 1825 testament of the vet. I'm tabling it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Xydakis, presents for the minutes the abovementioned covenant, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This tradition is a tradition of harmonious coexistence of clergy and people, according to the ancient order and the sacred rules of the church, and in the way that communities, cities, municipalities and modern states succeeded in living with the churches and co-administering wherever they had to co-administer, with the vote of the clergy and the people. This tradition lasted until 1969. Then the dictatorship altered the public character of this institution and called it a ecclesiastical institution. No legislator, either prior to the declaration of the capital of the Greek church in 1833, nor in 1850 with the publication of the accompanying volume, no King, no parliament, nor with the Royal Decrees of 1851 regulating the Church of Greece, nor with the Royal Decrees of 1887, nor with the Royal Decrees of 1925, 1929, 1938 and 1940; silk laws, changed the nature and function of this institution. No legislator and no parliament did it until 1969, when the dictatorship by its own decree changed it to church. The restoration of democracy is here. In 1976, by law of the then Karamanlis government, all these issues are dealt with. The “Pan-Hellenic Foundation of Evangelistria Tinos” is restored as a legal entity under the supervision of the State, governed by clergy and folk, and continues the tradition. In 1977, under the great law of 590, the Charter of the Church of Greece is regulated and drafted. In full agreement at the time of the political forces, the Holy Synod, Constantine Karamanlis and Serafim Tica, the Makaristos then Archbishop, this charter governs the relations of church - state and has an article, Article 66, which excludes from church institutions especially this pan-Hellenic institution. This is the tradition, the church respects tradition, as the state respects tradition. And we come in 2014 and with a legislative arrangement that changes this tradition. She's becoming a church institution. The road opens to be a church institution. That is why the relevant article of the Charter is also changed. I read with due respect and attention a letter sent by the Holy Synod. It says that we are changing the Charter of the Church of Greece. We're not changing him. We're bringing him back to where he was, to what he was agreed, to what they've been working throughout the Transmigration. That's right. Furthermore, for the constitutionality of these acts, the Council of State has repeatedly delivered an opinion on both the 1976 Act and the Plenary Assembly and Part III of the Council of State, and recently, in 2015, the Board of State in an appeal concerning the cancellation of administration. The administration has not annulled it, but the substance of the institution's nature has confirmed it, that it is a legal person governed by public law, under the supervision of the State, etc., as described in the laws of 1976 and 1977. Let's get in a little bit. Yesterday it was Orthodox. We remembered Leo III the Isaur, the great iconoclast emperor. So he said, in the 8th century, after chasing the superpower that the monasteries had gathered through the icons: "We King and the priest." Everything wanted to be, and king and head of the church. At the present time, the modern, democratic and parliamentary, which we are going through in order to live creatively, harmoniously, in understanding and in periphery, I believe that another is the king and another priest. We honor the rasso, it honors itself, it honors the secular democratic power and in the case of the pan-Hellenic Tinos Foundation, the reintroduction to the tradition of the owners and for the past two centuries, shows in the most wonderful way how we can coexist and coexist creatively. It is not always possible to change things without a debate, without supporting where we want to go. I would also argue that this creative coexistence of clergy and people for two centuries in Tinos also prescribes the future of church and state relations. Each ruler of rulers in his place, and together we come together, we co-create and move forward. There's no need for each other to impose on each other what he's going to do. In another respect, this reintroduction to this democratic tradition of coexistence of clergy and people brings us back to a lost tradition of our church, of the Church of Greece: conspiracy. By 1940 the elders, the priests, were elected by the vote of the people and clergy. Just two generations ago, a generation and a half ago. Our fathers had taken care of it and our younger grandparents had taken care of it. This tradition is gone. Church councils in the parish are appointed by the metropolitan council. The metropolitan council shall be appointed by the destiny. There is nowhere this creative mix of clergy and people. There was for two centuries and there will be again at the “Pan-Hellenic Foundation of Evangelistism of Tinos”. This is what we bring back, harmonious coexistence and respect for tradition. Finally, Mr Loverdos said that the Holy Synod should be consulted. There was no big political debate in 2014 to fundamentally change an article of the Charter of the Church of Greece. There was a focal change, which did not have the political prerequisites for a serious transition. We are therefore reintroducing the Charter of the Church of Greece where it took place during the great debate in 1976-77. If other changes are made, serious discussions will have to be held. Even in the election of the bishop there is the opinion of the clergy, 'consilium', but the people's agreement is required, 'consensus'. The 'consensus' of the people has been violated here. There have been bad events on the island of Tinos. The spirit and spirit bond of the people with the clergy. This is what we want to bring back and I call on colleagues in the Chamber who are mindful and who are not affected by ex-institutional centres that love the church, but above all they honor the vote and the mandate we have within the Greek Parliament, within Greek democracy, to understand why we must respect tradition and why we must not open windows and make focal changes to the major legal texts governing the relations between church and state. Besides, church - I've said it from this Step - it's not the hierarchy. All sacred texts and sacred rules say that the congregation is all the baptized, all the congregationers and all the communists. In this Chamber, we all have one of these qualities. We therefore have the right, with our agreement, to reintroduce the institution's order where it was and the charter where it was made with the great political consensus and the major political agreements since the civilisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u364	Thank you, too. Mr. Mitafidis rose from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u365	Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think certain issues should be dealt with in detail, if you like, ideologically. I am not referring, of course, to the 'floor' arguments which have been heard in this Chamber, but to the very identity of SYRIZA's policy and the field of education. Mr Grigorakos is not here, who - if I have listened well - used the word 'cannibalism'. I remember reading it at the FINANCIAL TIMES. ‘Social cannibalism’ has characterised the policy of Memorandums by ‘FINANCIAL TIMES’. And how could it not be social cannibalism when we lost 25% of gross national product, unemployment was escalated to 27% and, unfortunately, thousands of our fellow citizens from despair, whether they were driven to anti-depressants or went to decentralized démarches? We must not forget that. Another issue is this: Mr Gregorakos also said that we consider education to be an ideological mechanism, repeating Louis Altoucher's well-known one-sided viewpoint. I would like to remind you, however, that our view is Marx's view that education is part of society's spiritual productive forces. And that's how we deal with her. We have also repeatedly made it clear from this step that you are making a deliberate confusion, which is also made on the part of the JRC. Another thing is to provide education, a basic human right, on market terms - a view with which, as you know, you are flirting - and another thing is that training is not linked to production. I could, but I do not have the time at the moment, to look at too many texts on the Left not only by the trade union but also by the theoretical nature of the 1960s, together with the request at that time for 15% for education and democratisation, 114, for education to be linked to production. It was very vital, because, as you know, at the same time, we were saying goodbye to railway stations our brothers, who were driving to what the song was saying, "German slaves" and not just. Then, of course, when one of the patriarchs of your resignation, the New Democracy, Panagiotis Kanellepoulou called the migration of "god's generosity".
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u366	How?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u367	That's what he called it, "God's kindness." Look into it. You'll find it. Let me tell you something else, Mr Javarra, since I see you in the front. We do not present any magical picture or triumph. We don't miss the knowledge of him. Because you have also referred to the violation of Article 16 of the Constitution and that we are introducing the logic of a publicly controlled education, I would remind you that the battle to defend Article 16 has been given it by our own area. As our site also gave the battle for the autonomy of university institutions, when with the infamous "counsellings of foundations" you came to the point that you were excluded from the rectorial elections, chosen, immortal colleagues, such as the former Secretary of the Ministry of Education, who unfortunately lost him, Yiannis Pantis. Listen to something, because you are constantly talking about this issue. You who have a property relationship with power have made it in your image and likeness, now you have a problem, you have a deprivation syndrome. So much, then, we love power that in one and a half years of government we have brought us the simple analogue! Why didn't you vote for it and you support this covetous law that is now in place, which alters the popular will? Not even what you say about our space, that we have a Messianic perception. We are fighting, as you know, under very unequal conditions. But the point is, you're acting with the logic of the pig. Your President said so a moment ago. The government has taken up a legislative initiative. You've thrown the shadow of the world on her, that she's voter. Even a negative comment has been heard about our rapporteur, that he does not belong to the chosen elite of universities, as you think he is. In other words, it is completely, I would say, distorting and derogating the logic from which you arise, when they open up fundamental issues in Greek society and in an area that, as you know, is downgraded from a classic point of view. I would like to close with the issue of fourteen-year-old compulsory education and the question of the responses that have been made to the Government's initiative to introduce two-year compulsory education. I want to tell you - you know, but to see what our perception is - that in a society that wants to rely on the values of democracy, equality and social justice, the public nature of education and education is undeniable. That is why the question of education and democracy has also been linked in this country. You know that. We have a symbolic level of 15%, 114, the revolt of the Polytechnic, the struggles that have been given to the Migration. This nature of education is supported and defended by the current government in its choice of extending compulsory education, free of charge, to children of the four, five years old, of course, unlike the neoliberal model, which wants the gradual withdrawal, as you know, of the state from its obligation to provide public, free and high level education for all children, with a view, of course, to privatising education. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I don't have time here to develop to you that our view is based on the theoretical views and the foundation of top teachings and psychologists. I'm sloppy in mind right now, Pilate, Vigotsky. I am very pleased to read the texts of the educational federations they advocate. There is a consensus from all the educational federations about this effort initiated by the government. I would like to end with a quote from the OELEI communication, which I think is of importance because it is from the trade union of private teachers. "The inability of the state to offer public, free and quality pre-school education to all children has aroused a pedagogical industry, which receives from the winter Greek families millions of euros. In some cases tuition fees at pre-school schools are equal or even exceed secondary school fees in expensive private schools, and even when staff - usually graduates IEC or TEI - are paid with crumbs. The businessmen in the area see with particular dissatisfaction the state's intention to introduce compulsory, public pre-school education. They're now losing an important part of the pie. They show that they find it difficult to adapt to the new reality, insisting on past practices and bet not on quality but on cheap labour and with emphasis on preservation rather than treatment.’ Let all those who offer 'platforms' or 'platforms' to those who react to this section, which we are going to legislate today, think about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u368	Thank you. Mr. Mumulides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u369	Thank you, Mr President. Allow me, before I begin, to make a point and a request. Mr President, it is up to the Bureau to protect Members more, because there is a protracted abuse during the procedure, so that Members are exhausted, as listeners of a procedure, which is often awkward and dull. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin with a comment on Mr Mitsotakis' speech. As a government, we should either congratulate or thank Mr Mitsotakis, because with his presence here and his speech at today's meeting he actually rewards a political choice of the government. He confessed, after all. It has referred to three points in which it agrees. At the core of his thought and speech he rewards the Government for the establishment of the University of West Attica. What did Mr. Mitsotakis do today? He confessed to agreeing with the bold and visionary government choice, he simply told us that he would do it better. It is well known that the atrocity with the guild, where they follow one’s work and the others comment that they would do better. He obviously ignores Mr Mitsotakis that the previous governments have not dared to try to put order and create the necessary areas in the field of higher education. But what happened today? What did Mr Mitsotakis say in plenary with this surprise - I would say - in his presence? That his parade suddenly changed blood? That his parade changed his skin? That his extrapolation is a virginity product? What has New Democracy done to date as a government? Unfortunately, for New Democracy, Mr Mitsotakis has come here to reward the correctness of a visionary project, possibly with weaknesses, of the establishment of the University of West Attica - and indeed of a region with a special political symbolism, because it is a region which has been neglected over a period of time, which this government is trying systematically and with a plan to upgrade. I now come to that bill. There's been a lot of noise. Most of them were said. I would not like to repeat just what I consider to be more important. The need for this draft law to be tabled and voted arises from a clear political choice, which is the result of finding serious problems in the functioning of several technological institutions and the result of the prior dialogue. These led the government, the head of the Ministry, as a first step, to the creation of a large university, and even in an area which is highly downgraded, in the West Attica. A key element of this bill is the pooling of schools and the creation of a large single and, above all, strong university. It is actually about establishing the third university power in Greece. The signs of fatigue of several technological educational institutions are evident. It is a common place to assume that between the schools of the technological educational institutions there is a significant disparity, which leads to the environment of the TEIs being more importantly restricted. Some sections remained stagnant as they did not develop and inactivate. The government has been attempting this self-evident bill, which should have happened for years. So what starts with the bill is a process of pooling some schools and developing others. Changes in the field of higher education are many and some imperative. The Ministry's political choice for the redefinition of the function of the technological educational institutions remains constant, as well as for the gradual reform of the higher education charter. We are discussing a bill that comes as a product of dialogue on education, but I hope that it is also a precursor and other necessary structural changes that will follow in the field of education. I would like to dwell for a moment on something that a New Democracy speaker mentioned in judging the Ministry's leadership, not in defending the Ministry's leadership, but in the process that has taken place in the previous period. I think that we have rarely seen a process initiated by the Ministry, local government, parliamentarians, a daily dialogue. Committees were set up in each region on the issue of higher education. The decisions were not - and they are not always unanimous, but the dialogue is continuing, and that is important. But most importantly, for the first time, people from the technological institutions and the HEIs sit on the same table and discuss. The result is already visible. And I come to an important step - the length of this bill which, in my opinion, I think is the point that could make a difference. This is the possibility of setting up training centres for two-year-olds. These departments shall operate under the responsibility and supervision of university schools and shall provide upgraded professional certificates of European qualifications. This is an important proposal to upgrade post-training. The creation of the two-year training centres is an opportunity to link education to the country's productive reconstruction, as well as to link it to the comparative advantages of each region. The study of these departments and the creation of these departments in regional universities, where they are linked to local communities, is of particular value. I am referring in more detail to Article 17, where the government is sensitized to legislate and defend families who have more than two children and who are studying that, from now on, in the near future, after the vote on this bill, no family with financial problems should be set up more than one house for the study of their children. However, since today's session, there is another important regulation for families who have a child and the problems are particularly acute. It is too unfair to observe families who have a child and cannot study it. The Minister has committed himself to attempting to resolve the problem, except I believe that the Ministry must have a clear timetable. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I close, because, as you can see, time is very little, saying that we need to have an unselfish dialogue on the whole of Greek education and that will aim to create an exemplary educational project. If the political system wants to modernise, the education area is an important challenge, but also a meeting point. We must make decisions that are bold, innovative, free of purpose and co-determination. I close, referring to the extremely unclear, although a few years old, a project and to the role that the educational system plays in the capital of artistic education. I think the Ministry should be more bold. And I believe that the great reform work of this government in the field of education can only be started by radical changes that can take place in our educational model by upgrading, encouraging and introducing new artistic courses in education, in other words, more culture in education. It's an incision that's now matured. We are all witnesses of the important work that produces the technical and musical schools...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u370	Good. We're done, Mr. Mumulides.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u371	I want ten seconds, Mr. President. That's what I said at first. The Greek cultural tradition, the arts and letters, the Greek culture, must join the core of the educational program and form the head of the spear of a different conception. We will wait, we will monitor and come back with interest to the initiatives that we hope the Ministry of Education will develop. Thank you, Mr President, and your tolerance. Imagine not making a comment at the beginning on the use of Members' time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u372	Thank you, too. Minister, do you want the floor now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u373	Mr President, this is a completely technical issue, to which I would suggest that Mr Famelos should speak to free him. This is Amendment No 1497 by Mrs Iglezis for an amendment to Article 2(3) of Law 4519/2018. There's an almost typographical error. We're making her acceptable. Mr. Femellos could support her.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u374	Good. Please, Mr. Femmelle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u375	On the basis of the parliamentary regulation, the Minister accepts it, I just wanted to make it clear to colleagues - I am simply making it clear - that we have recently voted for Mr 4519 in his infancy. 4519 the name of the entities was correctly formulated, but at the National Printing Office two of the institutions were printed with different names, and only for order and start-up reasons are the printing error corrected. Nothing else. It is not really an amendment, but I agree. Mrs Inglezi has done her well, and we thank the Minister for accepting her.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u376	The parliamentary representative of the Centro Association has the floor. Mr. Cavadela, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u377	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I will, as usual, be precise on time, because we have to respect each other so that we can coexist in peace. Before entering the main point, I would like to say a few words about a request made by Mr Loverdes, whom I very much appreciate about 984. 984 is Mr Kamine's little shop and I say it 'Mr Kamine', because I and many others are in this House about eight hundred days of MPs and has ten so-called information shows and on these so-called information shows, in proportion, should have called me and other Members at least thirty times. But he hasn't called anyone. Mr. Kamines is analgesic and is analgesic because he removes signs from cancer patients, obliges them to pay the fine to return the signs, when they were due on every road, or at least at the very least the main road, to provide a place for people with disabilities and problems. So that's the analgesic, Mr. Kamines. And now we're going to the ERT. And ERT's a little shop. Well, 984 is not entitled to be an informant, play chefs and ERT smurfs, because ERT doesn't even see the rallys - it doesn't even know and measure - and it has some broadcasts that are 'liberals'. So I'm gonna get to the main thing. The Centro Association is positive on any initiative that improves the teaching system. It is well known that the popular saying - one colleague said before - 'Where a school is opened, a prison is closed'. We are in favour of education. The ideal thing would be for every prefecture to have a high school like the Italian model, which brings together many foreign students, who, along the way, become ambassadors to Italy's culture when they go home. Although today, as the case has evolved, it does not find any work representative of its studies, it is necessary for the state's intervention to organise, guide, advise and predict. So, as I said before, we have a positive attitude, of course, as a central idea to take this. However, we have some objections and partial comments that we hope will be accepted by the government, as some previous interventions by the Central Association have been made, and that is why we thank the government for accepting them. We would like to raise concerns, such as our concern for the Attica PES students, who have had 20% access to the two Attica TEIs so far and will now be limited to 5% at the established university. As apprentice magicians, you turn TEIs into HEIs and there's something in this bill that looks absolutely rousphetological. You set up a committee of your own with a view to the judgement of the educational staff to be carried out by your committee and not by an independent committee of the institution. You want to interfere and manipulate as usual. Of course, you are complaining that we are accusing you of manipulating, overcoming, for a lot of things and things. What is happening with the funding of the ELIDEK? What does the provision of paragraph 15 mean, according to which you will in your decision make financing independently of the decision or proposals of a Scientific Council? You probably want to keep an eye on the situation through economics and the good ones being properly paid. I am going further to the provision of paragraph 9 of Article 20 which provides for the cessation of a scientific member of the Board by decision of the Minister, which would normally be the responsibility of the general meeting of the institution. So the two TEIs are being abolished and I ask the following reasonable question: are those currently in the student room today, first of all what are they going to receive? Is there any prediction? Will they get an upgraded title? Once they get an upgraded title, what will apply to former graduates who graduated in seasons with a TEI title? There is also a reasonable concern among students with Article 13 that provides for the transfer of departments. Will there be any new criteria? Are they going to be automatic? Today some students’ families suffer from an obligation to keep two houses, one family and another in another city, the student. The transfer focuses on the interest of the Centroon Union, and here we do not have a satisfactory development on the part of the government. It's still 15% of the Balta arrangement. There are uncertainties and reasonable reactions. We welcome Amendment No 1482 and Amendment No 147 by Mr Katsiki, if I remember correctly, concerning the transfer of orphans. Higher education institutions are protected under the immunity of ideas, but abusively Immunities are offered to some counterfeiters, drug dealers, illegal immigrants and many others who are not entitled to make use of academic spaces and immunity. You close your eyes in seizures, in episodes. There are solidaritys. Now, in public opinion, asylum sometimes works like a criminal asylum. This is because this is a very serious issue, following a joint codecision by the parties, we must take care of it and give some solution. On the occasion of the creation of the new institution, we could therefore give some solutions that are being mobilized. The citizens are very concerned that lawlessness will come along with education in the new university space. With regard to creative work, which initially give us a positive sense, we need more information on their educational contribution. I shall now refer to the great problem that arises in relation to two-year compulsory pre-school education from the age of four. Do not repeat what the previous speakers have said about the organisational issues that arise. In addition to the practical problems, further funds will be needed, because even 30% of the municipalities will be charged, it is impossible to assume that they will be able to do so. The European Union is already contributing 70%. Of course, we also have some positive comments, so that you do not think we are making blind opposition. For example, in prison schools the best will come out and not the worst prisoners. There should also be some professional guidance and professional absorption of the deportees. On the occasion of the establishment of the University of Western Attica and the deposit of this bill, it would be useful to be more bold in terms of education and professional absorption. The young people, unfortunately, are leaving by hundreds of thousands abroad. You deprived them of their vision, their dreams of a decent living, of a decent career. What can they do with specialization, further training? What are we to do with all this when we do not have the possibility of absorbing new scientists? It is not an independent matter for education from professional use. There is also a reasonable reflection here, along with the absorption of the two TEIs at Attica. A merger of the Eastern Macedonia - Thrace TEI, based in Kavala with the Democritus University of Thrace, could be carried out automatically. But here I am talking about bodies and you have already made your decisions. You're listening to them. For example, Mr Mitkas of the Committee of Governors told us that the Committee of Governors was informed from the public consultation page when this bill was put to consultation. He didn't have any briefings before. You write us properly, we could say, Minister, on your footwear. So this is your practice. I will conclude with another comment. You met, Minister of Education, a few days ago with bodies of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace, despising all the MPs of the Opposition, calling only the Syrian MPs. There are, as we have said, positive ones. But clandestineness, arrogance, the certainty that you have the infallibility lead us to vote'residents'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u378	Thank you, too. Mr. Stylus from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u379	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, you are presenting today's bill as a major reform in the field of higher education. Unfortunately, however, this is not the case for many and various reasons. First of all, the bill is a slogan of three - four different things: the creation of a University of Western Attica, arrangements for vocational education, for IEKs, arrangements for research, arrangements for preschool education, general provisions, photographic regulations, settlement of issues. Generally, it's a little bit of everything. Gentlemen of government, you legislate about academic space, tertiary education, part. Instead of institutionalising stable rules and conditions, you are now starting at the TEIs of the centre, located in Athens, Attica, you will then proceed to the other institutions of the country, without anyone knowing your next steps. It is the logic of'seeing and doing'! You ignore the effort that has been made over the past few years to create the single area in higher education, an effort launched in 2001 and its strong foundations have entered the governments of the New Democracy with Minister Marietta Giannakou. At the time the road map for higher education was created, with concrete and targeted steps. Let me remind you, Minister, that the professional rights of graduates in over a hundred and twenty departments in universities and in TEIs, the creation of postgraduate departments at the TEIs, the crises in the election of the scientific staff of the TEIs on the basis of the same criteria as those of these universities. So this road map exists and there is. You could build on him and move on. Sadly, however, you come with the arrogance of the newly enlightened and your ruthlessness, to discover America once again. You announce the new university, which will come from the merger of the two TEIs. You're in touch with the local mayors and you're in agreement with them. I ask: What mayor would say no to the establishment of a new university in his town? Is there someone who would say no? You ignore the academic community that has asked you serious questions about your project. I am also telling you this: the establishment of a university, as you know, requires the preparation of feasibility and sustainability studies, which is rightly the case today in legislation, and the Ministry itself requires that new postgraduate studies be set up. Secondly, it is planned to set up departments, without evaluation by institutionally independent authorities. You're actually not correcting anything. You create new pathogens, legislate in election time. Who knows when the election will be? In September 2018, in 2019? With your policy and polarization, it's probably soon. All this, no plan, no study, no perspective. Close the eye in local micro-industrials and small artifacts and all of this as you refuse to see what happened in the past, what steps have the previous governments taken, keep positive and reject negatives, describe today's problem and on the experience to give your own directions. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make a few references to individual articles in the bill, which demonstrate its dubiousness: You are cutting the sections from forty-two to twenty-six. At the same time, you reduce laboratory courses for the benefit of the theorists. Let's see what's next. The students who will be introduced into the new university will be less than those who enter the TEI by now. Unless otherwise applicable. Tell us and commit. To fill this gap, you create new state structures, the two-year vocational training centres. Question: Do They Need? Because there are IEKs, which contain level five vocational training. Would you like to upgrade the fifth level? Make it work! No one's blocking you. The bill creates an unprecedented confusion between parents and students. Why would anyone choose the IEK, when there are new two-year structures, vocational training centres under the supervision of the university? How will the person who will go to vocational training centres and how will the person who will be enrolled in the IEK be chosen? I also asked you in committee: is the new institution provided by the Bologna Treaty? You didn't answer our questions. Minister, why are you creating new state structures instead of upgrading the existing IEKs? In order to create new armies of contractors through these state structures, by stepping up their political hostage? Excuse me, Minister, but we are again in the same work of spectators: State expansion, along with the pathogens of the past. This policy as a government is being followed everywhere: public administration, control mechanisms, education and the environment. A little more of a state. There is no reference to this bill to linking the university to production, to the market, to industry, to innovation. Your policy is allergy to what has to do with extroversion. Nowhere in the bill or in the explanatory statement the word extroverted. The leadership of the Ministry of Education has proved by its policies, at all levels of education, that it is in favour of a specific segregation, in favour of equilibrium and mediocracy. I ask, Minister, how will the new administrations be chosen? Why do you want this privilege exclusively for you? Why don't you tell us - at least let the National Representation know - how the new management committee is to be set up? You keep it secret. Why don't you say that you're going to use the existing authorities, which have been elected at the TEIs? Why don't you say you're using the experience? Antiquity? Tell us something. You keep it for you alone. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that we have unemployment among young people from the age of 23 to 35 of the order of 50% - 55%. At the same time, with information from BSE and public statements from its members, it is difficult - says BSE - to fill job vacancies because of the lack of appropriate staff with professional and technical skills. In short, our graduates cannot respond to the needs of the times. Each Greek family lives with the unemployment it has. Minister, are you concerned about this problem? Is she worried about you? Do you know that many of his specialties and professions today will not exist in ten to fifteen years because of the fourth industrial revolution? At the development conferences, Minister, you are organizing every one of the Prime Ministers is announcing a school. Now a new department, tomorrow a new university. Why not other universities? We'll be fine. Besides, they can be done. What is the added value of all this? Ladies and gentlemen, the government is under the circumstances. It operates clientele, voter-free, prospective, unconscious of the challenges and demands of the times. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u380	Thank you, too. Mr. Risulis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u381	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Before I enter the bill and say two - three brief and concise things, I would like to say the following: Mr Mitsotakis has come and spoken here and has done very well. Through his speech he condemned the attack on Mr. Papademos' house. As Chief of Officer Response, however, in addition to the attack on Mr. Papademos' house, having had the opportunity to condemn violent actions, he could say a few words about beating, which was made the other day by people shouting "blood, Gold Dawn" and beat the family lawyer Physsa. But this violence probably leaves him indifferent. Why does he leave him indifferent? He leaves him indifferent, because he would have condemned some time ago those who with "kousavacisms" threaten to "greaters" the "slappers", as he called a member of your party, and "foot-slaps". This phrase, however, leads the battalion to resurrect, because - to say it as well - they see from a room of tolerance. But there is no violence, we don't care about that. On the bill: The Minister, Mr Gavroglou, has a great success with the bill and a great failure. Its success was that almost everyone, I think, agrees that reform is needed. That thing's no longer going. Of course, no one votes for it, as far as I understand it, because we are not doing it well. In fact, Mr. Stylus asked what was going on with the schools, saying that schools are being established. But the problem at the TEIs, especially at higher education institutions, all the time, Mr. Styli, that's it. In other words, tens of hundreds of schools have been established throughout Greece, most of them without professional rights. I said that to the committee. If we read the title of some of them, we won't understand what these people are doing. That's not just the TEIs. We also have problems with professional rights in S.H.I.E. There are branches in the HEIs, which are involved in TEIs, which do not have any professional rights. The amazement is, of course, that in some way, Census knows everything and if it were here today, as a government, it would have done everything. He left this whole school system in every village for decades, like we were talking about. Not only the Civic Opposition, the New Democracy has let children out who have no professional rights, and now that a reform comes, you say that you have the best way to solve it. Obviously the bill also has problems with the issue of professional rights - to say it - it is not solved by this bill. But we are, at some point, forgetting in this House that the Minister has said so to the committee that this process, which has been going on for decades, is going to continue with the institutions and at some point - it is not easy - is going to be solved. But the direction is within a short time that these rules, which will give children real professional rights when they come out of the schools, will also solve the problems you have, namely the problems of TEIs in relation to what is being done with their postgraduate degrees, etc. I'm doing a parentheses here. Minister, you said something that I think is wrong. You said that a government cannot close its eyes to a problem such as what has to do with the transcripts, that is, with brothers studying in different cities, or even with families with very low incomes, which, as we said in committee, is something we will see after September. The mistake was what you said, a government can't close its eyes. The governments closed their eyes for years. If you meant that this government can't close its eyes to this social problem, then we'll agree. I'm finishing my fourteen-year-old compulsory education. First of all, one issue is infrastructure, obviously, which cannot solve the problem today so that we have the fourteen-year-old compulsory education from tomorrow. There has been a lot of talk lately about the 75 billion health and how much this whole story has cost. It would be useful and useful for us to do some time an evaluation in other areas of our social life - as we want to say - in terms of the squandering of resources. In the 1990s and early 2000s many schools were founded in the province and today they grow thorns around, because there are no students. This was the design of the infrastructure. We should take it to local government as well, since we're talking about infrastructure. Let's go to the province to see how many millimeters, two thousand and three thousand square meters have been established in Greece - with the previous law, the "KOPESITRIA" - where there is one or no employee today? billions have been spent, and that was your contribution to the country's health, education and local government infrastructure. There is another good investigation, because we have this pressure from the CEDEFOP on why children are being lost from the kindergartens. We need to see how many one-and-two-year-olds they're in kindergartens in the municipalities. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Why? Because the mayors don't want these kids. They want children three, four, five years old who will not have the problems of children aged one or two. I say this above all for those workers who are sometimes taken away from trade union groups or mayors who say they lose their jobs. If they really go to the municipal children all the children aged one, two, three and four, then they need staff. What they say doesn't come out. Of course, the issue of fourteen-year-old compulsory education is also corrected and who teaches what kindergartens do. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u382	Mr. Gabroglou, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u383	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u384	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u385	Mr President, as regards the ministerial amendments, the amendment with a general number of 1491 and a special number of 155, the amendment with a general number of 1495 and a special number of 159, the amendment with a general number of 1496 and a specific number of 160, and the amendment with a general number of 1499 and a special number of 163, are accepted. As far as the Members of Parliament are concerned, the amendment under number 1482 cannot be accepted, precisely because we have said - and I said to Mr Katsiki - that we will bring through the Committee on Morphic Affairs, in consultation with the parties, a proposal as a whole for the relocations. In this sense, we do not now want, in addition to the regulations on siblings, to do anything else, because it will ruin all the logic we have in the translations that have already been made. The same applies to Amendment No 1483, which also makes the proposal made in Amendment No 1489 on the creation of a new section. We do not think it should be accepted. But - and this is very important - all these proposals will go to the Management Committee of the University of West Attica, so that a proposal can come from there that is both documented by the administration and see it in the positive direction. The amendment under general number 1490 is not accepted, with the same logic as the amendments on relocations. The same applies to Amendments Nos 1492 and 1493. You will allow me to use the amendment as a general number 1494, to speak a little later because there is a technical issue. First of all, we are in favour, but we want to be very clear about its technical details. So I'm not in place. It is neither acceptable nor inadmissible. Amendment No 1497 has already been accepted. Amendment No 1498 by Mr Mitafidis and other Members of Parliament on two-year-old compulsory education is accepted. Also, the amendment with a general number of 1500 and a special 164, concerning the "Pan-Hellenic Holy Foundation of Evangelisti Tinos" is accepted. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I'm also making the legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u386	I would ask that the legislative improvements be distributed. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty two students and students and two educational attendants from the 15th Element of Elosmos Thessaloniki (second section). The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u387	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u388	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u389	For the legislative improvements, I would like to supplement what the Minister said. Paragraph 10 of Article 20 shall go away. It's the one that has to do with the IKY and the scientific project managers there. In addition, paragraph 11 concerning the transfer of teachers by doctorate to research centres changes and now concerns secondments. In other words, we have heard the comments made. The secondments mean that they go in accordance with the extracts law, that is, for a period of time they can be seconded to research centres and then come back to their service in schools, enriched by the experience they gain in the research centres. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u390	Mr. Iliopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u391	Thank you, Mr President. I was really laughed at by the previous speaker of the SYRIZA who, on his anti-fascist ostrich, made an introduction where the President of the Edessian in what he said at the time, would fantasize like Babiniotis in what that speaker said. Anyway, Gabroglou, the minister representing the Minister of Education, considers that Parliament is his father's shop and sent a letter on Friday showing to all parties except Golden Dawn. So listen, Minister. I'm not even putting the "sir." Here is the Greek Parliament and the Golden Dawn represents over 10% of the Greeks and Greeks of the real work, the hard work and not the pieces you appoint, nor of the media pimps who are now supporting you, nor of your millions of friends. These people, then, must be represented on such a serious subject, such as student transfers at universities. These are families who really need, who cannot support their own home, how much more they should send their children to the province, and you are thus blocking the Golden Dawn from this dialogue, as always. You play democrats too, but you're the worst complex leftists. We have heard before Janakopoulos talking about attacks against the house of Flamouraris and that nobody condemned them - which, of course, were condemned - but also Janakopoulos and all of SYRIZA and New Democracy and all parties of the anti-constitutional arch did not once hear in the Greek Parliament condemn murderous attacks against Members of the Golden Dawn, attacking murderous against officials of the Golden Dawn, burning the offices of the Golden Dawn, which we have suffered over recent years. I have not seen you condemn illegal concentratings at any legitimate Golden Dawn gathering from some trans-stated garbage you are sending to cancel our concentrations. Nevertheless, you're crying here, because sometimes some of them went through - your own children, you say it - out of the house of Flambury and some of the others, and they threw twigs. That's how you get beaten by this interstate earthquake, with twigs, while we get crabs with sticks and guns. Of course, you don't condemn them. They were here before a New Democracy lady, a classic company - Voridis, Adonis Georgiadis - and they were whipping that the President - you - I think you were - closed their microphone. You smashed them. Those who sent the third party of the House to prison, their political opponents, weeped here because one president closed their microphones. Another commentary of the news: A journalist, a catalyst of journalism, Paul Chimas - so described, "decayed" the Golden Dawn and "majorongs" - must have had a lot of vinegar, because, looking at the polls of the last few days, he has frightened, as he has scared the entire political system, and that is why he is setting up various provocations from the rise of the Golden Dawn. But you should not just be frightened by the rise of the Golden Dawn. It must scare you that the Greek people have begun most of their lives to hate the political system. It sees all the things that are happening, sees the hatreds that went and came from NOVARTIS, from SIEMENS, from all the parties, sees betrayal in the national topics from today's Macedonian name, sees the Turks staring into the Aegean, the Turkish warships looking like cruise ships crossing Sounion to see the sunset, crossing Kavo Doro, and you see them rampaging the ships of the port untrue. You don't even make a statement about the eyes of the world. So all these senators hate you and say it in polls, that they hate the political system, and they spit on you, and you think it's raining. They are these Greeks who, from Melbourne to Germany, from Evros to Crete, have succeeded and joined them. They massively went down to the rally on a national issue, such as Macedonia's name and you did a national project, uniting all these Greeks. It is these Greeks who say that they are not going to do any Greek, real Greek, and not like your Greek-speaking voters, step back. Your children, of course, are the ones that today - if you read the news at random, only today's news I tell you, I do not tell you the daily police report - they fired a grenade at the Cesarean Police Department or a grenade, which fortunately did not explode, outside the Exarchy Police Department or molotovs throughout Greece and so on. We have, of course, every night invasions of the platoon in Exarchia and so much so good that they happen from your own children. When they enter your own gatherings, you say "Leave them. These are our children'. These expressions are recorded. These are your kids. Your children, of course, did not hurt even the New Democracy because Mitsotakis had the courage to come here today and say that this lawlessness will stop, that there will be - says - zero tolerance. The ridiculous person, Samaras, along with Treasury, said the same thing and, of course, they did exactly the same thing you do today, that is absolutely nothing. The so-called zero tolerance to the crime and the violation of these para-states was essentially the absolute tolerance of the system to those who are supposedly playing it, and are the greatest authority, because they always help in the role of each government. We have even seen - very funny - and the announcement of 'Rubicon', which supports the staff of the New Democracy in the case of 'NOVARTIS'. We heard that, too. Also, another thing I saw a few minutes ago online is that Marva Mitsotakis, which is so much to talk about, has an online store - I won't tell him his name, don't make advertising - and where she says about foreign missions - listen to you, gentlemen of the New Democracy, who are so cut off and mocking the Greek people on national issues - and where "Skopje" is supposed to say "Skopje," she says, "Macedonia". Not even had the eloquence to write "FYROM", Mr. Javarra. It says 'Macedonia'. I say it so you don't fool people. You're just on all the issues...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u392	Are you addressing me?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u393	I spoke to you. It's not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u394	If you're talking to me, I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u395	You'll answer me. I will show you the screenshot, to see that it is called "Macedonia". If you want to answer me, you can answer me. Unless Mitsotakis' wife means that it's another part of Greece and when she says to the countries abroad "Macedonia", she means ours Macedonia, the style "Thessaloniki". So answer me if you have to answer me. I would be delighted to hear the view of the New Democracy. I would like to submit to the Minutes, because we are talking about the EHS and the establishment of a new EHS, not an old post, but a major Saturday newspaper post, which says that EHS is in the mercy of God and anarchy. There's nothing going on in the Greek AEI. The so-called asylum which you have been defending for so many years for the movement of ideas is an asylum which favours the trafficking of drugs, the illegal trade and the anarchist groups, those who each night charge and dismantle everything in Athens. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Panagiotis Iliopoulou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We see that ASEAN has become a paramilitary man from illegal immigrants from Africa - that is what the newspaper says in its investigation - we see them every day, passing outside the ASEAN, these are the AEIs, Minister - who exploit the asylum, in the morning they sell their act in front of ASEAN - and I repeat that we have seen them all - and this illegal act is kept within ASEAN this evening. We see Metsovio Polytechnic in photos showing us broken marbles, painted walls, a devastated landscape in the day and the night of anarchists for their raids. We see law school being a drug parade. Students and passers are even at risk by passing by law from the drug attacks. So bring in, if you have the courage, a bill that abolishes two things, asylum and student youths. They produce nothing from student youths. Parts of dogs for the party tubes only produce. They have no chance of producing these stubborn and humiliated party youths, but only executives for your parties. So bring a bill like this, and we will be the first to vote on it. You are also carrying in an article in the bill an arrangement for compulsory schooling for the four - year - old children. So there will be a two-year compulsory pre-school education. You bring this into force in Greece without having studied the infrastructure, without the necessary recruitment - which you will probably have your own children to pay you back in the next election - without any study has been carried out with an institution which is not working anywhere else in Europe but in North Korea. That's probably where you're inspiring it, too. I tell you as a parent who both my children go from 12 months to a nursery, but that's my choice, you can't force no parent to send his child from four years of age to kindergarten. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] And rather, because you are very sensitive, you have not predicted that there should be priority for the Greeks. Because, as you know, at the children's stations today if a Greek with a normal income can't go because the positions are taken by Albanians, by different ethnicities, who work parasites in Greece without saying income. They declare either zero or minimum income and thus occupy the positions at Greek children's stations. We say priority to everything that the Greeks have, and clearly to the kindergartens and kindergartens. You, therefore, are making up a bill that requires Greek parents to take their children four years old. And if, in September, there are no such infrastructures, the Greek should send his child to a private nursery. These are fine letters for you, of course. For you the Greek worker is only a source of taxes and nothing more. Greek birds are a presumption for you. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. You have done nothing, of course, about birth. However, this is a huge chapter that should be discussed at ten meetings and there has been no single reference. Mr President, you have no intention of sitting here in three hundred people to see how the problem of fertility can be solved. That's an asterisk because it's a huge conversation. You tell us in another article that the three Hierarchs' holiday remains, but it will not be celebrated. That's all you symbols with these extremist instincts you have, you could legislate on it. There's a holiday. So what holiday is it gonna be? Explain to us, Minister, what holiday will be that won't be celebrated? You, too, are so cut off for the separation of the state and the congregation. I shall conclude with your amendment, Amendment No 1488. I would like to submit to the Minutes the letter of the Holy Synod, which complains about your intervention, for the sacred institution of Tinos. Clear political intervention in religion. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Panagiotis Iliopoulou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] If you want, then, by closing down, do something, if you want to improve education, do it simpler, do nothing. Every piece of your legislation takes us back years. So the best thing is not to legislate for education, just as you should not legislate for any other institution. You're harming your legislation. Golden Dawn will soon come, a national rule will soon come that will bring back the surname national in front of the definition of education and will be a truly national education that will help all Greek birds grow up with Greek Orthodox principles and do in their lives what can be done by everyone rather than dragging behind party offices and not become your slaves and pieces behind your parties. Luckily this time will come, and I believe that soon all the Greeks will enjoy all the Greeks, all the Greeks, a national education.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u396	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u397	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u398	I wanted to say about an amendment tabled by the JRC. We accept it and delete the corresponding text of the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u399	What is the number of the amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u400	It is the amendment with a general number 1494 and a special number 158. We think technically it is a more improved version than the one we have and we accept it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u401	Mr. Thebes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u402	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, honestly when I heard Mr Mitsotakis say "a positive step towards the establishment of the University of Western Attica, but we will take it off", I was afraid, precisely because you then analyzed what Mr Mitsotakis has in mind when he talks about a university of technology applications. Today we have had a second overthrow - at least of what we have seen in the committees in the last few days - in relation to the bill from the Democratic Partnership and that from whom? Of the enthusiasts of the "ATHENA" project who marginalized a series of TEIs, which they described - Mr. Loverdos did so - the current bill as a stitching-off regulation. It is really worth wondering why this virtual attack is taking place today in the creation of the University of Western Attica. We are told that it is an academic cursory, that it does not upgrade the departments and degrees, that it does not create better conditions for graduates in the labour market and that it is another feeder of unemployment. We've heard all this. Objection? None. And who's saying that? The ones who delivered us a computer with five hundred separate sections strayed. Who really will apologise for this phenomenon? Who will apologise for the lightness and curiosity of the ATHENA project? Who will apologise for not entrusting more than two hundred divisions with professional rights? It is necessary, however, to agree on something: is it an upgrade or not a combination of the two TEIs at a university? Is there or not a more solid academic basis for any improvement moves that can be made? Let us not necessarily trust the Ministry, but the universities who will raise the burden of this case, those who have discussed, selected and laid the foundations for the creation of the University of Western Attica for seven months. Another issue I would like to raise is that of two-year compulsory pre-school education at the public kindergarten. It is true that there has been no single argument with educational, educational or social criteria against the obligability of two-year-old pre-school education that is happening throughout Europe. That's no accident. The objections are only collaborative and technical, and they are even overwhelmed by reality itself. The compulsory fourteen-year-old education, apart from a government position, is a position of almost all education providers and not only. The data from the EBRD, the institutional adviser of the CEDEFOP for 2017-2018, say that at municipal school stations they had nine thousand three hundred seventy children four to five. Outside municipal structures - the age of one to five - they had over twenty thousand children. So where does it turn out that the children's stations will be shut down and workers will be fired? Obviously we are only deliberately forgetting that just a few days ago, on 16 February, the Ministry of Labour bill was passed on a funding programme for the establishment of up to two children's and baby stations in the municipalities with a large amount of money from the NRP, with the start of these infrastructures in 2018 and over two and a half thousand jobs. These are deliberately ignored. But I think it is time to remind them and emphasise them. In the debate on the bill one thing is certain, that there is a common component, a red line that pours out any opposition krone they hear today. Those who question the bill partly or radically what do they have in mind? That this bill asserts the public nature of education. That's what scares them. The interventions made in one direction, to relax the public nature, whether it relates to the establishment of the university, or to the establishment of compulsory two-year pre-school education, because some individuals will lose some interests, or the two-year vocational training programmes from universities, which are likely some private IEK to lose their "always" and will certainly enable thousands of graduates of the ESDP, children as a rule, to draw up free of charge, with upgraded curricula, with university "obrela". This is for us the other side of excellence, excellence that contains not only personal justice and recognition, but it helps reduce social inequalities and strengthens the collective effort to improve the educational and living standards of our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u403	Thank you, too. Mr. Michael from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u404	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a feeling that the dialogue in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media today has been exhausted or I would say that it is full on individual issues. That is why I am going to dwell on what is generally called 'educational policy' or 'policies in education'. Leftist intellectuals in the Middle War had some ideological obsessions. I would like to remind you of these. The first concerns the language issue. The language at school must be the language spoken by the Greek people, the municipality. This was resolved after seventy years and no one, or most of all today, the political forces, insist that it is obsessed. Some may insist. Second insistence: The access of girls to school and mainly to secondary education at that time was 10%. With the reforms of '29 and '64, this obsession has also been resolved. No one dares today to say that it is the ideological obsession of the Left that the girls have access to education. However, there are still some of the 'hearts' of some of the other obsessions. The introduction of vocational education or rather vocational training in education at that time, in the detailed programme of that time, held by an archaeolatria, was considered, together with the perseverance of these intellectuals for the primary language and the girls at school, to be more dangerous than the newly emerging communism of that time. The entry of vocational training was therefore made with the ideological obsession of left-wing intellectuals. It was established in 1929, reintroduced in 1964, confirmed by Law 309/76 and confirmed by Law 1566. Today, we are in the following political danger: How does vocational education improve? The ideological opposition of the two sides - the right and the left - is: Traditionally, the Right considered that the separation of technical vocational training with general education should be carried out in low classes, if possible from the elementary point of view, so as not to waste money on the children going to school, to receive general knowledge and education, which would ultimately prove to be useless for their profession. The commitment of the Left was through a unified single school - the ideal would be the unified multi-class school, expensive school, which we could not use in the homeland - all students to acquire the general circular education, which is necessary and capable of making integrated citizens and through such a school, which gives guidance to professional and professional education, to take the necessary professional facilities. This now appears to be a controversy. The right-wing logic is low and downward-class technical-professional. The logic of SYRIZA and more generally the Left, but more generally the modern science, is the "consolidation" of the university space. I'm going now to the last obsession: The last "persistence" used to be how many years you've studied. In 1929, ladies and gentlemen, elementary school was four years old. Three years was the so-called high school, and four years was high school. The persistence, then, of the Right was continuous examinations, because he saw that the evaluation was continuous examinations. And pay attention to the possibility: Examinations from primary school for high school, exams from high school for high school, so there was no need for exams from high school for college, because those who ended high school were not those who asked for college. The phenomenon emerged after the Asia Minor disaster, which took place a population transfer here and was interested in the middle class that came from Asia Minor, etc. I am not saying any more so that I do not eat you the time with this. Today it has been shown that the more the child lives in school, the better knowledge he becomes, the better socialization he becomes, and this was a left-handed one. And don't think that famous 1929 reform of Venizelos went unnoticed. All conservative political forces and a lot of rural people reacted, for he considered his children as a workforce and not as children going to school. Today, therefore, our attempt to institutionalise the fourteen-year-old education, which seems to be acceptable to everyone, is an remaining 'persistence' of years that has been accepted by the entire political spectrum. And this is the progress of the political spectrum: what Mr Mitsotakis told us is ideological obsession, with efforts and struggles for decades, acts in Greek society and its acceptance. I will conclude with one comment. What is constantly said, "association of education and especially of the university with the market", which was written for the first time by an excellent book by Stefanos Pesmazoglou, "Education and Development, the Incompatibility of a Relationship", 1992, which is useful to all of us today, has a very great question: What is the market and production in such an unchangeable economic field and in a country like our country? Tourism and rural economy. So we're just going to connect the training to these two sectors? The answer to the problem is the unification of university education, general circular doses at the maximum possible rate of children of the Greek people and a systematic direction of vocational education to upgrade it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u405	Thank you. Mrs Antoniou from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u406	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today in plenary the bill of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs 'Creation of the University of Western Attica and other provisions'. It is a bill that, apart from the University of Western Attica, includes regulations concerning all levels of education, as well as provisions on the field of research, to which I shall refer in detail below. So with regard to the University of West Attica, any attempt to rationalise structures first finds us in agreement. In our proposal, the strengthening of the country's technological education system is an important pillar of the education reform. But how? By strengthening technological education with a substantial interconnection with the production process. You, unfortunately, come handy and fragmented, without a concrete plan, without overall planning and, above all, with opaque procedures, to legislate quickly, by election. You're sharing simple university departments. You're doing it like this. Only the Architecture of Castoria you did not do, Minister. In this particular project, therefore, as emerged from the hearing of the bodies, there are important questions concerning both the procedure and the feasibility of this new body. I'll focus on the main ones. First of all, you, Mr. Gravroglou, but also Mr. Fotakis, referred to the foundations of Piraeus and TEI Athens, saying that they have significant academic performances, that they have actually been de facto university departments. So you're going to break down the words you said a moment ago: 'Forty years who cared about these TEIs?' How did de facto become university institutions? Undo what you said a moment ago. You told the committees that they were de facto university departments. Also, the mergers of departments and the creation of guidelines do not seem to have been carried out through a transparent process with clear academic criteria, which we have heard from various actors and from the Committee on Budgets. You did not ask, Minister, for the opinion of the IPPC and the ESRB, as you had to do under Law 4485/2017, your own law. You voted for him. On the issue of resource savings, let us read: The GCC report mentions a minor savings of EUR 27 500. The explanatory statement speaks of 3,200,000 euros. You in committee told us 'we will give more resources'. What's the matter with you? Are you going to tell us? You haven't answered us. Most important, in my view, but also in the view of all New Democracy colleagues: Apart from abstract promises, there is no specific provision in the bill on the professional rights of graduates of the university. The fact that you are going to start it, which you told us in committee, of course, is not enough. You spoke about the Scientific Committee of the Parliament. You probably didn't read the whole report, Minister, because you're not looking at the unconstitutional provisions of the bill as far as I can see. I'm filing it here so you can get a chance to read it all. [[At this point, the Member, Maria Antoniou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned report, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] I would also like to refer to Rule 17 and the issue of translations. Although you have not answered the question we have tabled forty-four Members of the New Democracy on the major issue of the inability of thousands of families to financially support their children's studies due to the disappearance of the middle class and the further poverty of the Greek society that you have imposed, you are currently bringing about an alleged regulation, which is not clear about the criteria it sets out. We are now going to the research provisions contained in Article 20 of the bill. They are twenty paragraphs with twenty fragmentary and incoherent provisions, of which there are, of course, some provisions that we would be positive and we would like to vote on. Unfortunately, however, the way you legislate, by putting all the provisions in an article, we are deprived of that possibility. Of course, you are doing so deliberately to say that we are not voting for any measure on the research. So what are these rules for Article 20? I could sum them up in a phrase: Incapable of giving the 'oxygen' that research and innovation needs to help with the country's productive reconstruction, with claws that are probably created due to the attempt to manipulate the country's research tissue. I would like to point out that, first of all, there is incredible legislative handshake. It is another bill, which includes "blocks" to address issues raised in the resolution of Law 4429, the ELIDEEC. There is no bill from the Ministry of Education that has come to Parliament, which has no emblematic provisions for this project. Secondly, with regard to the fragmentation of the institutional framework governing the country's public research web, instead of common rules of administration and operation, you are coming and adding bodies for funding under the provisions of Law4310. I asked you in committee. Thirdly, the manipulation and control of the entire research system by the relevant Minister. Your record, Minister, for allegedly independent ELIDEC looks essentially like a fairy tale, especially after the provision of paragraph 9, which gives you the right to cease any member of the Scientific Council, and this competence is reserved solely for the general meeting of the institution. There is also a provision in the report I have tabled to you, a connection. Fourthly, the procrastination and disarmament of the Minister of Government to establish a legislative framework for the operation of the research centres in the country. It is extended for the sixth time, at least as I recall, on a continuous basis - I have lost count - the deadline for drawing up the country's internal regulations for research centres, Minister, which expired on 31-12-2017. In other words, there is a legislative gap. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me a minute, Mr President, to conclude the provisions on research. Fifthly, with regard to the financing directed at the ELIDEEC, we had directly accused you, Minister, of wanting to influence the financing of the ELIDEEC. Paragraph 15, which gives you the right to distribute resources every year, even without the proposal of the Scientific Council, fully confirms our objections. And all this is happening at the same time that there are some complaints and reports of opaque procedures in the crisis committees. Fortunately you have withdrawn the provisions of paragraph 10 after a hard criticism of the committees, Mr Fotakis. Seven, the lack of plan and a national strategy to combat Brain Drain. Fortunately you changed the order of 11 talking about transferring primary school staff to the research centres, at the same time that our researchers leave abroad. These are the problems identified in the field of research, Minister, and you are due to the minimum time left for you - you have not done them three years now that you are a minister - to correct them. So let the propaganda videos to which you are talking about research and innovation costs - you say - for the first time 1% of GDP, when everyone knows that this expenditure does not result from policies.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u407	We got over that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u408	For this reason, you have submitted here in the Minutes, Mr Fotakis, a document from the ESF, the National Documentation Centre. What's he saying? "On the basis of the above figures, state appropriations for research and innovation constitute 0.54% of the country's GDP." You testified. Did you read it or did they give it to you and testify? I'm filing it. I am also presenting in plenary what I have tabled to the committee as regards 1% of the country's GDP. Indeed it is 1%, but it comes mainly from the private sector, as I have told you. [[At this point, the Member, Maria Antoniou, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] So leave the celebrations for the twenty - five postdoctors who will return to the country, as you say. In order to combat, Minister, Brain Drain needs a plan and a national strategy, and you have none of it. A government needs a government that invests in research and innovation and its interconnection with the production, development and attraction of foreign investments, such as the HAARP established by TESLA, which started by three Greek scientists participating in the planning department of the company. In fact, the first contacts had begun in 2012. These researchers must be approached to create the legislative framework so that six years of efforts are not needed to install the HAARP.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u409	Please, Mrs. Antoniou, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u410	In order to create new and well-paid jobs, it needs a government that can inspire excellent scientists and researchers and provide them with a better perspective for tomorrow. We need a government of the New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis, and we will soon have it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u411	Mr Constantopoulos from the Democratic Association has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u412	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill has been announced a year ago, which is why it has been very much expected to be a regulation on the map of higher education, of course, developing great expectations for students, scientific and teaching staff, but of course also for thousands of families. It is an arrangement that sounds pleasantly to all those involved in education. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill, although it has taken time to discuss it in depth, was unable to unblock professional rights, which is what is needed for the graduates of the TEIs, and we leave them once again hostages. Because, Minister, what is needed today is the interconnection of TEIs with tomorrow's professional rehabilitation of graduates. The scope of the courses and the curriculum should also be defined with clear evaluation and academic criteria. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know historically that the evolution of the KEEAs in TEIs with Law 1404/1983 and the upgrading of TEIs to TEIs by the law of Petros Euthymios, Law 2916/2001 are the works of the PASOK governments. However, today an integrated proposal, scientifically documented for the present and the future of the project, is needed. We all know, ladies and gentlemen, that the teaching staff of ATEIs and the results obtained by students, who are graduates of the departments, are at a very high level. We don't give them anything. I would say that they have developed pilot educational activities with high-quality undergraduate and postgraduate programmes. They have developed excellence islands with research laboratories and units, they have promoted networks with international organisations, scientific associations and foreign institutes. However, ladies and gentlemen, all this operation, with the ambiguity that has arisen in relation to the mergers of departments, the procedure for selecting teachers, the safeguarding of professional rights, the equivalence of graduates of today and yesterday, creates many questions and of course serious reservations. Ladies and gentlemen, our rapporteur has developed our reasoning for the establishment of the University of West Attica. I would, however, like to make some points in individual articles: I note that the leadership of the Ministry of Education, following the reservations expressed and expressed in our own thoughts and opinions, withdrew Article 19. With the same sensitivity, Minister, I would of course expect you to accept our Amendment No 1490/154 that I tabled and that it relates to the transfer of undergraduate sisters to third parties and multitude families. Minister, it's a minimum support for the family. It is a minimum support for third-twelves and multi-texts, particularly at a time when we are facing a serious demographic problem. I believe, Minister, that you must accept my amendment and not be referred to in the overall regulation on retransmissions, leading these families to despair. Minister, the problem that has been created for some time in INEDIBIM and EEA has been dimensional. You have replaced the administration of INEDIAM in summary procedures. In the EPPP, however, Mr Minister, you are coming with a new amendment to validate the selection of the CEO, healing an earlier amendment that was incomplete. I have asked you a question and I am actually waiting for your answer, and I think it is appropriate, of course, to withdraw this amendment. Minister, I'm coming to the two sections. The regulation for the two-year sections of vocational training and education, which we voted on in the summer draft law on higher education, seems to me positive, because this is how the PSA children get professional qualifications. However, Minister, I would like here to draw your attention and suggest that you allow these children, those students, that is,, to continue their undergraduate studies with rankings or with a quota. Also, Minister, in the context of strengthening the academic capacity of the University of West Attica, we tabled an amendment number 1489/153 and proposed the establishment of an autonomous department for the administration of an Agency for Health and Social Protection. This request has been fully documented by the academic community. You have accepted it in committee at first instance. We therefore call on you to make a commitment to the committee, to accept our amendment, if you of course consider that this request is legal and strengthens the social role of the university. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that the issue of the recruitment of alternates and the issue of pre-school education in the Greek-language education and research bill respectively created tensions. Today Article 33 is reintroducing tensions. He's dominating our conversation. The announcement on the implementation of two years' pre-school education reappears today, with the Minister himself, of course, to present his reservations and fears for its implementation. Our position is clear, it is described in Article 3 of Law 1566/1985. It is reflected in the scientific evidence that kindergarten schooling is for children of four and five years. I mean, I've been pre-schooling and baby-sitting. In no case is it about infants. The daycare station, Minister, is a care, care and care structure, which comes under the Ministry of Interior. Professional rights for infants are defined at age 0-4, where there is care, and kindergartens at age 4-6. This is clear and unnecessarily negotiable to me. The fact is that the deterioration in the operation of the full day kindergarten since 2015 has caused several major problems, especially for working parents. The reality is that we have to heal it. Thirty - six thousand children were rejected by the structures of the nurseries and eight thousand preschool children were excluded from kindergartens. So what should be done? The Ministry of Education and Local Government in cooperation must find a solution. The next school year is due to create conditions for registration of all children, aged 0-4 at nursery schools and aged 4-6 respectively at kindergartens. Minister, the obligability of two-year pre-school education is not questioned by anyone. It is offered by the education sector, which is the kindergarten and by the kindergartens of the IP60. This is a firm position of the Democratic Alliance. But what you are trying to do with this article is a repetition of Law 1566/1985. We do not give anyone the big sections of PASOK in the field of education. We respect teachers' struggles, we respect everyone's struggles. We honor their offer over time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u413	Will you vote for it? Here! It's the truck!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u414	Mrs Drittelli has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u415	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate on the creation of the University of West Attica is an educational and academic milestone. It is part of a policy launched by the government which has a dual objective. First of all, this is a political option that hopes to respond to the new circumstances, to the new facts, which arise after ten years of crisis and in view of the apparent exit from it and we hope, together with the new scientists, to stand on our feet and to return a page as a country. A second objective and very important objective is that this effort starts from the need, obviously, that exists within the Greek society and comes through its development, on what should be the prospect of this country and where we should rely, not to go back, obviously before 2009, which we all seem to be spending. This is happening - and it is an innovation, I would say, of the Ministry - without economic criteria. It's a need. And that is why it must also be embraced and with very great care - and I say it sincerely - all the wings of this House must come before this effort and productively give their suggestions, because this bill is the guide to how the academic charter is to change in the country as a whole. So the creation of this university institution, the country's third largest university pole, is the beginning of an extremely creative, I would say, phase of social and research reconstruction. It is also the starting point for a new era in higher education, aimed at overcoming quality and supporting a different productive and academic model based on a knowledge-intensive society. The University of Western Attica - we need to stress, we must not hide it - came from the academic reconstruction of two major technological institutions and shows the way to other institutions with academic criteria and with the sole aim of moving Greek higher education to a new level. An extremely interesting point in this process is that the new institution did not come up with the logic of administrative enforcement. In other words, it was not created through a forced environment of administrative pressure, as was the case, for example, with the "ATHENA" project. On the contrary, it is an experiment downwards with the seal of the academic community itself. This differentiation makes this project unique and we hope that the rest of the country will follow on this path. The executive role of the Ministry in this effort, but also in the Committee on Morphic Affairs at all meetings, was important. Continuous consultations were held with the educational community, with educational, productive and research bodies, but also with substantial preparation by the two major Attica TEIs. Also, the new University, like the rest that will emerge, was held at the regional development conferences co-organized by the Greek Government with the regions of the country. The leadership of the Ministry of Education, which participated in these institutional and structured consultation processes and the panels organized by the truth, is that they were embraced enough and were among the most popular in all regions. So the University of West Attica is the culmination of a multidimensional effort, which we hope is not the only one. In all regions the debate has been opened. All institutions, universities and TEI, seek out osmosis, mobilize thoughts and ideas, and at the same time local societies are looking forward to a new academic proposal, which will generally and overall upgrade them. In this direction it is extremely important that this debate is conducted with academic and not with micro-political criteria, as in the case of the Athens project. We all remember the then proposals made by the Ministry that were horizontally abolished hundreds of TEIs and then merged regardless of each other, only to mitigate local actors' reactions, but also players. Academia in today's process, but also the mood of creation and not of destruction, are the qualitative differences on which the success of the new university will be based. We therefore hope that this debate will proceed to all the educational institutions in the country. Despite the titanic work that is required, we can make it and get to the same point that we are today with the University of Western Attica. Obviously this process cannot be completed only through the legislative process. We'll have to get the new university to work. Academic teachers and students are struggling to establish the new institution among the most quality Europeans. The important thing, however, is that today the academic community as a whole welcomes this effort very positively. I would like to make two more important adjustments to this bill. First of all, with regard to the relocations, the provisions of this bill ensure the right to relocate to undergraduate brothers. This really gives an important breath to families who in these difficult conditions are struggling to study their children. We have listened carefully, of course, to the Minister's proposal for the cross-party co-operation of a new framework on what is not irrelevant - and we must not treat it as such - with the new academic charter and the system of access to higher education. That is why we must all think together about a system which is as wide as possible, but at the same time it will not cancel the regional institutions and will not do a secondary duty for the Ministry to strengthen student care for students who cannot make use of this right. It is worth mentioning in the provisions of Article 33 the two-year compulsory schooling of infants in kindergarten. I listened carefully to all colleagues. I also understand the concerns that may exist in some groups and that any change or reform can cause some kind of suspicion. All the new obviously needs to be assessed and in due course this will happen. I think it has now been understood that the issue of compulsory pre-school education is a constant request from the educational community. It is not only Mr Gavroglou, the Ministry of Education's political leadership, or SYRIZA. This does not mean that a Priori should condemn these efforts and reforms aimed at upgrading the educational work, when all of us here, in this Chamber, conclude that education in general needs significant changes and innovative interventions. I would therefore like to say that, gradually and in three years' time, we are talking about a transitional phase which, in fact, is needed, in order for everyone to respond to the new conditions - children between four and six years old will be included in public kindergartens, with the corresponding care of the state for the full coverage of these needs. This structural educational section will result in the integration into the Greek educational system of the best European practices, as they apply to countries such as Finland, for example, and in the final discharge of all families from financial burdens arising from the current situation, especially for those - every year we are dealing with this - do not guarantee the vouchers to cover the feedingstuffs. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the Vice-President of Parliament, Ms. MARios GEORGIADIS.]] Ladies and gentlemen, by closing down, I would like to point out that the creation of the University of West Attica is an academic reserve of the Left. It is the implementation of a vision and a programming framework of the SYRIZA for productive reconstruction, with a peak in public education. As in every section, in it, some rushed to stumbling, raising administrative or other bureaucratic difficulties. The answer to all of this is that the university has challenges ahead of him, but it will succeed, mainly because the first ones who are anxious to work and succeed are the academic community itself, the students and its teachers. We therefore hope that, in this direction, the next step will also be the upgrading of regional institutions to the model of this university, which everyone seems to want in the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u416	Thank you, Mrs. Drittelli. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty two students and students and three educational attendants from the 15th Element of Elosmos Thessaloniki (second section). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] There is a reason for that, Mr President, for an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u417	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to say that we are accepting Amendment Nos 1501 and 165, and there is also a legislative improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u418	With what content, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u419	It has to do with the ETs. We believe that the establishment of the LEI must also have a say in the ERASMUS. I'm tabling a legislative improvement for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u420	Minister, at some point we would like to have your answers to all the amendments so that we can have an overall picture.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u421	We told them, I just think you were away at that time. If not, we'll tell you. The only thing that was pending was the one you had testified. We accepted her. Along with her, we're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u422	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Karamanlis from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u423	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law under discussion is the establishment of the University of West Attica, a legislative initiative which the Minister for Education, Mr Gavroglou, has repeatedly described as emblematic today. I'd say it's really contagious, but for the wrong reason. Because it accurately reflects the basic priority of this government, which is no more than serving micro-political purposes and, of course, developing customer relations and voting. Because the establishment of this new university is a fragmentary action and does not fall within any integrated plan for what we want to change in higher education, what is our aim and what time horizon, on what modern needs of society but also of the economy responds, but what resources we need to implement this project. The great loser of this case is our country's technological education, a sector that has demonstrated that it has and can evolve and adapt to modern requirements. At the same time as the international trend is to strengthen technological institutions and to guide pupils in vocational education, we are moving in the opposite direction. Many of the students of the Attica PPAs made this choice, taking into account the increased chances of the treatment at the TEIs of Athens and Piraeus. You went to surprise them and actually deprive them of the opportunity to continue their studies. It is good that you accepted our proposal, increasing the number of PSA importers at the new university. However, remove the basic incentive to write a child in the PESAL, because children in these schools are primarily oriented towards technological education and are not interested in studies in university schools with a theoretical character. At the same time, the professional rights of the graduates of the new Foundation remain blurred. There is no clear reference in the bill and the Minister in the committee has not made it clear today. Does it mean an upgrade of technological education without provision for professional rights? I would also like to focus on the mergers of the old divisions and the creation of young people without any criteria. We saw some sections remain autonomous, perhaps under the syndicate pressure or because of increased influence on the leadership of the Ministry and we saw the creation of'supermarket' parts that remind us, with the concentration under the same umbrella of objects that are completely unrelated to each other. The Department of Biomedical Sciences, in which you had the unfortunate inspiration to include from Medical Labs and Radiology to Optometry and Aesthetic Cosmetology. Do these departments have anything to do with science and business? On what academic models did you rely on to create 'a little of all' sections? Is this an upgrade? We have all received protests from students and teaching staff from departments, which nothing but believes you are upgrading them. I shall mention, for example, the Department of Medical Labs, a section with international recognition and recognition, which makes it equivalent to Sections of Biomedical Sciences abroad, with high absorption in the labour market and a great deal of resonance on the preferences of the candidate importers. Such a section was found to be unable to keep its self-interest and the members of its educational community have every reason to feel at once about their professional rights and the equivalence of the old degree with the new one. Their views on a merger of fewer parts that have a relevance have not been taken into account, as you did not receive the view of the IPPC, which has assessed them positively in the recent past. So it remains reasonable to ask what the real rationale of the divisions has emerged, although we can suspect your measures and stations. I come to Article 8 and to the Vocational Education Centres, the new structures that you set up in the university and are addressing the PSA graduates, who are confronted with another confusion. Their differences in relation to public IEC are not at all distinct. Why would a child post-ESDP choose to study in a CED rather than in an IEK? The curriculum will be established on the basis of the occupational profiles of the EEAP, as in the case of the JEPs. Graduating from CEDs after two years will get a level 5 degree certificate, according to the National Qualifications Framework. So will IKK's graduate after a year and a half. Thus, the same professional rights in both cases, and all that at a time when it does not seem to be guaranteed the financing of the new project, unless the Ministry considers that they have a surplus of money from the university budget to cover their operating costs. So, at the moment when the dominant requirement is to increase funding at universities, you are creating another structure, with what this entails in terms of expenditure, without any added value coming up. Under Article 33 compulsory schooling is gradually introduced from four years of age. There is, indeed, a strong pedagogical view that the child's contribution to the development of the child is great and that two years of schooling in this way will help its emotional, social and mental development. However, such a significant change that affects the lives of thousands of children at a sensitive age, but also the planning of their families, cannot be done by fast track procedures, without the necessary infrastructure being provided to support the project, without there having been substantial dialogue with the highly successful structures of the municipalities providing high-level services, without having solved issues relating to working hours, working in the summer months, the existence of auxiliary staff. If the institution is designed with such carelessness and so many gaps, it will lead with mathematical accuracy to depreciation and failure. In closing, ladies and gentlemen of the government, with the draft law being discussed, you are unfair to the very institutions, their students and their graduates. Your basic meaning is to prevent you from inaugurating the University of Western Attica, cutting ribbons before the elections, anticipating benefits in the poll. The New Democracy, acting responsibly, is placed in a positive position at the outset, but has an obligation to highlight all the weaknesses and distortions of the project, because it cannot be another university with uncertain prospects, but strong educational institutions with an emphasis on technological education, educational institutions which are not related to the disappointment of today in many Greek universities, with criminal and violating behaviors being part of their everyday lives, with smuggling, with drug trafficking and use, with molotov laboratories and extensive disasters. I really hope that the university you are creating today will remain unaffected by your ideological obsessions, which sustain this image of lawlessness and decline. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u424	Thank you, Mrs Karamanlis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u425	Mr President, please, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u426	First of all, tell me what you'd like.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u427	Mr President, I have asked the Bureau for the floor in writing on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u428	I'd just like to make something clear. On the basis of Rule 68, it must be said that, as you know, there was no hybrid expression - because I read the Minutes - and the President-in-Office considered that there was no point in staff. Nevertheless, I will give you for one minute the reason to give your opinion and to end it, because I do not want to go too far with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u429	I will only need one minute, Mr President. Two hours ago, in this Chamber, in the justified reaction to the fact that the Vice-President of the New Democracy was interrupted, the President-in-Office of the Council, George Varoumenos, chose to make a disgraceful and insulting comment to me personally. I urged him to withdraw it because such personal reports do not match parliamentary morality. However, what is more important and more unacceptable is the fact that he himself chose as a judge and not to give me the floor on staff, when it concerned him. This is inconsistent with parliamentary morality. The Chair must of course be respected by everyone, but no one should take advantage of the Chair when it comes to it, because it can be seen as arrogant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u430	I think that this fact is seen as ending and it is good to move forward. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a statement to this House. The Standing Committee on Production and Trade submits its reports to the draft laws of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: A. JUDGMENTS OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE AND THE COURT OF FIRST INSTANCE OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES ‘Preparation of the Lease Convention between the Hellenic Republic and the companies ‘Total E&P Greece B.V. `, "Edison International S.p.A.." and "Greek Petroleum Anonymous Company" for the grant of the right to search and exploit hydrocarbons in the marine region 2, Ionian Sea." B. Other: ‘Principle of the Lease Convention between the Hellenic Republic and the company ELLINIKA PETRELIA ANONYME to grant the right of exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons to the land area ‘Arta-Preveza’. C. Other: ex II. ‘Preparation of the Lease Convention between the Hellenic Republic and ENERGEAN OIL & GAS - ENERGYIAKI AEGAIOU ANONYMINISTRATIVE RESEARCH AND PRODUCTION OF HYDROGONTHRAKES to grant the right to investigate and exploit hydrocarbons in the terrestrial area of "Itono-Carnania"”. D. OBJECTIVES ‘Preparation of the Lease Convention between the Hellenic Republic and the company ELLENIC PETRIC ANONYME to grant the right to investigate and exploit hydrocarbons in the land area of the Northwest Peloponnese’. Here, Mr Emmanuelides, you have the floor on SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u431	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a draft law on education. First of all, let me note that the debate that took place before the committee responsible took place in a climate of moderation, wisdom, seriousness of the subject, but also in general with a sense of responsibility that we must all contribute to political dialogue. More importantly, today's debate works laundry after what we've lived last week, which the delusional opposition speech that was articulated condensed in the words crafting, gang, punishment and purple. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that we owe ourselves, but above all the Greek people, not to allow this area of democracy to become a place of extreme right-wing intolerance and post-mortem revancism. I heard a lot of'me','me','me'. Very common, suggestive of extreme nepotism. We all understand. However, I would like to remind the politicians 'Kesarians' that we are here about 'we' and not about the superficial and disastrous society 'I'. Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to the bill under discussion. Every piece of legislation that comes to the vote will naturally bear a social burden. However, education legislation has a greater specific social weight, as it defines a country's navigation line. The draft law to be passed is fully in line with Thucydides' saying that he "is in favour of the wrongdoers" and that is why he obviously leaves a positive social footprint in support of the weak social groups. I first come to the title of the bill: 'Institute of the University of West Attica and other provisions'. The name of the visiting names as the principle of wisdom of Antisthesis is indicated in the name of the founded University of West Attica, a region where an important part of our country’s population lives, a million thousand literally drowned residents in the mud of the social analgesia of the governments of New Democracy and PASOK. The wounds of the Mandra disasters have not yet been shut down, since the criminal political decades in West Attica, where the children of a lower god live. The establishment of the university in this area shows the interest due to the upgrading of education in regions forgotten by the government over the last few decades. The establishment of the University of Western Attica is the result of a long process of consultation and processing and during its formation was taken seriously into account the conclusion of a committee set up at the Ministry of Education by academic acquaintances and representatives of the administrations of the institutions. The bill cures two needs. Firstly, with academic criteria, as mentioned, the third, sized academic pillar, is being created. Secondly, the founded university creates a lighthouse of education, education and culture in the most downgraded and unjusted area of Lecanopdi. I am going through the other provisions of the bill, the social core of which restores clear social injustices. I am referring here to the provisions relating to student relocations. It is social barbarism young people and young people, while they have proved their merits in the academic track, to be excluded because of the family financial weakness. It is a social problem, for which the post-government governments of New Democracy and PASOK on others were tempting. So we respond with an initiative that treats this social pathogen as much as possible, without sacrificing the validity of academic activity. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] The draft law also contains the upgrading and extension of the operation of prison schools. What can this intention be shown in addition to the required social sensitivity that the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK have for decades refused to give the necessary educational dimension to the penitentiary system? I then come to the issue of upgrading vocational and technical education. In this field it is quite obvious that there is a systematic and time-consuming care by the government to be illuminated and the unseen aspect of education, because for decades vocational and technical education was the slap in the process of education. Finally, I refer to the provision concerning the introduction of fourteen-year compulsory education by adding the two years of pre-school education. This regulation is based on European practice, which accounts for 95% of children between four and four years of primary schooling. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] My firm conviction is that the need to demonstrate the state's interest in strengthening the foundations of the educational structure, which means that interest must first and foremost be shown at pre-school and elementary level, where children's experiences must be desirable in terms of learning process and thus the uptake of the educational good of education, according to the scientific findings of top education. To close, in the logic of the circular, I would like to point out that studies at the immovable universities of the Harvard type, when they are not compatible with structured personalities, are at risk of irresponsible and dangerous behaviour on national issues and society. And the notion was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u432	Thank you, Mr. Emmanuelides. It follows six speakers to move on to secondary education. Based on our calculations, we'll be done at approximately 23.00, if you all keep track of time. Mr Stefos has the floor on behalf of SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u433	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, by listening to almost all the speakers, I have stood in two - three positions with which, if anything, it has been argued that if anyone wants to destroy education in that country they must give it to SYRIZA. And I wonder how an education is being destroyed when a government institutionalizes the single type of full-day school for kindergarten and primary school. How education is destroyed, when it improves the system of access to higher education, with the possibility of increasing the fields chosen by students. I wonder how education is being destroyed, when the curriculum is rationalised in primary and secondary education, when foreign language and religious programs are reformed, when it comes to special treatment with six hundred new schools and inclusion departments and similar recruitment of teachers, when the function of special primary schools is harmonized with those of general education. I am thinking of how colleagues can claim that education is being destroyed with this government, when staff recruitment is increasing in a record number, which in itself demonstrates the priority we are giving, when ten thousand five hundred recruits were recruited in special education, unlike the school year 2014-2015, which has been carried out almost half and a little longer. I wonder how we are destroying education in this place when we have operated the structures and departments of reception in public schools for refugees and migrants. I wonder how we are destroying education in this country, when we imposed control and supervision of private schools by the Ministry of Education, blocking the arbitraryness of private schools and schools owners. I am standing in some of the things that have been done in primary and secondary education, to say that it is not less important to call for a thousand ICP posts. This is the first time since 2010. Programmes for young doctors were launched for the exercise of teaching experience, the removal of students was abolished, the support programmes for unreported students, etc. were organised. It is a long list, and I do not want to say any more, because I do not have time. But I have heard Mr Mitsotakis say that 'when we become a government, we will abolish what you have legislated'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u434	That's not what he said, Mr. Stephoe. You didn't notice.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u435	That said, 'We will abolish all the provisions'. I assume you're going to fire once again the two and a half thousand PSA teachers, and you're going to take off professional high school again? And I come to today's bill, which I think is really emblematic, mainly for two reasons. One reason is that a large university is being established, and the other is that for the first time it is attempting to secure and upgrade the TEI, which is being discussed for the past twenty-five years and has never been decided. A serious debate on this bill took place six months ago and, of course, all the proposals made by the stakeholders were taken into account. However, I would like to focus, not on the provisions relating to higher education, because most of the people here were mentioned in detail, but rather on regional provisions relating to two-year-old pre-school education, the one on which at least the Democratic Consensus is at least being met today, that we - it says - first in 1985 with Law 1566 introduced it, ignoring, of course, that in 1957, the then ILO Governing Council, on the Government of Karamanlis, proposed introducing two-year-old pre-school education in our country. However, if we want to be honest, for the first time in 2015, when the government, the Ministry of Education, was Nikos Philis. He was the first to open up the debate on compulsory two-year pre-school education, and today we, the SYRIZA government, are legislating. But let us bear in mind that some fifty thousand children aged five are also in kindergarten today. Is this insect of infants, who are caring for children from 0 to 4 years old, infants and infants being treated? No, of course not. After all, this government, our government, which in 2015 restored their hours, because we understood the workload and incredible fatigue from eight hours to eight hours. And this is the government that institutionalizes their studies, making them academic. I consider it to be the legality of the relocations. It has been heard here by a Member of Parliament saying 'we, why don't you build a student homes'? Because it's just that student homes need time and money. And what will all these children who have two brothers who need to break up their families? We are therefore establishing the relocation of these children. In conclusion, I would like to make a comment, considering that I will not give rise once again to Mrs Keramea's anger, which I very much appreciate. Mr Mitsotakis today was particularly sober in his position, which I appreciate. Obviously Mr. Tsipras was away, so he was sober. What did Mr. Mitsotakis say? He said that we must condemn these acts of violence and all those who are like them, such as the occupation that took place in the Prefecture, and those which took place at the house of the former Prime Minister, Mr Papademos. Evidently, these actions in nothing help and are convicted. But I was expecting him to make a comment on the vulnerability he has taken on some of your party's first-line politicians. And I am explaining: The attacks on justice, the attacks on judges and prosecutors, the blatant attacks on the Prime Minister of the country, are the ones for which he did not pay any attention, and he did not make any comment. Finally, I would like to tell you this: in a self-managed area of solidarity, the 'Favela' - for which it is not obliged to know exactly what it is doing and what it offers people solidarity - the other day, fascists, Nazis have invaded, trampled, brutally hit the lawyer of the dead Paul Bridge, sending her to the hospital. Not a comment. Deafening silence or what? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u436	Thank you, Mr. Stefo. Mr Manius has the floor on behalf of SYRIZA for seven minutes. Until you come to Stepma, Mr. Colleague, I propose that we set aside the deadlines - if you do not disagree - should we close the times. From there on, there's no question of cutting anyone off. You're entitled to seven and a half minutes. I propose that we put it at five, and from there I leave it to your judgement of how much more each of you will speak. Here, Mr Manier, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u437	Thank you, Mr President. I do not think I will have a seven-minute lunch, because I am not going to make a speech on the whole matter. Two, three things I just want to say. I will begin with the amendment to the PIET, the Pan-Hellenic Holy Foundation of Panagia Tinos. It's a story. Mr. Xydakis said it very thoroughly, but it's worth reminiscent of it. Before there was a Greek state, it was with its structure until 1969. Since 1823, if we do the removal, we'll see how many years it's been that the invisible junta came and made the change without asking anyone. Constantine Karamanlis came then, in 1976, to 1977, and restores the old regime. What's the old regime? A good cooperation between clergy and people. And it comes in 2014, on one night, and Mr Loverdos brings the amendment - now he says that the Holy Synod told him, a former member of the Cyclades made this happen - and it brought about the greatest upset that man could think of on the island. I hope some of us have seen the 2014 incidents after this resolution, how the Tinos people, who have no reason to believe that they are reverent and religious, acted to the dominion. Behaviour that was out of every logic and in no way justified, but showed indignation. I am a member of the Cyclades, I go to the islands, I have contacts with the people of Tinos, who, apart from political, party criteria, strongly asks, like the municipal council, with unanimous decisions, with resolutions, for the status to be restored. We insist that we be afraid to restore the order of popular and religious tradition, because some people think about the votes of the Church and some people don't know what they're thinking. It is disgraceful that the Greek Parliament cannot, I would say, unanimously, but Golden Dawn, because their government of the junta has abolished it, not to restore order. Constantine Karamanlis did not have to bring her back, and we need to do the above. I don't understand that. The political parties should slowly be placed directly. I will stop here because I am one of the Members who tabled the amendment, but there are even more competent than I do on this matter. One observation. As long as the time passes, both within Parliament and outside Parliament, I have the impression that a generalised amnesia, a loss of recent memory, have suffered the two major parties of counter-population. They're accusing us of the bill on the relocations. ‘The families of the middle class shall not be able to do so.’. Yes, sir. Why can't they? Did SYRIZA destroy them? Did SYRIZA disappear 25% of GDP? And SYRIZA comes in and tells us to put the two kids or the three together, because there are all three children studying, in the same city and they blame us for not doing it. What didn't we do? Why did they not do so in the previous years when Greek households were being destroyed? From four years old and above compulsory education, it is a left position that, as the previous colleague said, began at least in 1957. Once again Constantine Karamanlis had called for proposals from teachers for the educational system he wanted to inaugurate. And they made the proposal to start from four years old. I agree with anyone who tells me that this system could not be done in 1957 and the children of the four years old go to school because of the social and economic circumstances. But now? Do we want the children four, five and six years old to be in kindergartens, as some people invoke it? To be with the children of the four years old? Did not any of the Members present go for a walk in these countries in the middle of Europe, to which we belong, to see that they are apart from these institutions, that they are four years old? No one came out? Nobody found out? ‘There are difficulties.’; ‘The article is not well written’. Yes, sir. Let us start and solve any difficulties. From throwing the changes away in the future, because it is now difficult to introduce them, it is a great mistake. We are obliged to resolve or put the basis in order to solve all these social problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u438	Thank you, Mr Manios, and the economy in time. Mr. Armalene has the floor for seven minutes. Here comes Mr. Syrigos, Mr. Friend and Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, to close with the list of speakers. We shall then proceed to secondary sessions, and if the parliamentary representatives wish to have a second reading, they will be in the Chamber and we will finish the meeting with the Minister. You have the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u439	Thank you, Mr President. I will speak only about the amendment which I subscribe with six other colleagues, who are also in other parties, not just in SYRIZA. It is Mr. Spyros Danellis from Potami and Mr. Kostas Zouraris from the Independent Greeks signing this amendment, which for us Cycladics and for the whole of Tinos is a emblematic amendment, because it restores the legality and tradition of two hundred years literally. I do not really understand colleagues who have questions on this matter. It is an issue that began when his change from the dictatorship was voted, as the previous colleague, Nikos Manius, said in 1969 and abolished this regime that began in 1823. I shall mention in particular the Royal Decrees of 7 April 1851 and 19 December 1887, which set the objectives of this institution as a legal person governed by public law. It is a legal person governed by public law, which, according to donors of the land built by the Holy Temple of Evangelistia in Tinos, was designed to help with the public works of the entire island, works that have to do with help to the poor, with the help of the schools, with the help of the nursing home, with the help of the port and wherever else a financial support is needed for the good of the local society. Over the last two hundred years, with a populist composition of the administration, it has really been able to create this beneficial work, which has brought many good things to the island of Tinos as a legal person under the supervision of the state. So one night came literally in October 2014, when the former PASOK MP, Mr Panagiotis Riga, brought this amendment, with which he substantially restored the status imposed by the military dictatorship. It is a pity that the Party of Democratic Integration, to which PASOK belongs, does not come with both hands to vote in favour of this amendment, restoring democratic tradition. What did this amendment do? First, he abolished his exception to the Charter of the Church of Greece in 590/1977, in Article 66(1), the Panhellenic Foundation of Evangelistism of Tinos from purely ecclesiastical institutions. He excluded it and subjected it to the supervision of the State just to the supervision of the Church, strengthening the role of the countryside metropolitan - regardless of persons, who is today or who will be tomorrow, etc. - by double vote in the administration and the possibility of absolute priority being given to the election of the Vice-President and the Secretary of Administration. In addition, he had the metropolitan to participate in the selection of the director of the Marble Sculpture School of the Tower of Tinos. This is a historic school, which brings out the best craftsmen, who have worked and work mainly in the Acropolis. So the metropolitan chooses the director, which is outside the educational process. This amendment was voted literally at night, in ignorance of the Tinos people, in ignorance of the municipality. And I would like to point out that the mayor is presently present in the gallery and is watching us, as well as a delegation from the municipal council, which is waiting on this day, after three years of implementing what we promised - and I personally - at a convention of a thousand people, who have risen - a local lagoon of Tinos - when this amendment was made unaware of them. I was the only MEP from SYRIZA at the time, who had voted 'PAON', because we did not know what the point of this amendment is, when I was notified at 12 o'clock at night, without being present in the debate of the bill. I therefore promised that we would restore the status of the institution's delivery and regularity. Nothing more and nothing less. The restoration of this tradition has nothing to do with either opposition to religious feelings or personal opposition to the countryside metropolitan. It is about deep conviction that the traditions, which have been in place for two hundred years and which have been adopted by the Tinos people, will continue to guide the procedures and functioning of the institution. And that's what all the people watching us are waiting for tonight. I can assure you that I have received too many messages at the moment we are talking about from Tinos, who are waiting, independently of political and party position, for the parties to vote in favour of the restoration of this normality. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Anyone who thinks that with the possible vote on this amendment or the neutral attitude will bring work to religious faith and the Orthodox Church, is making a very big mistake. I would recommend a visit by representatives of the parties to the Tinos society to see the depth and feelings of this world in this case. So I feel a moral satisfaction that I can look at the people of Tinos in the eyes after three years and, while we thought it would have come immediately with our Government since 2015, but many forces, such as those who today tried to prevent the vote on this amendment, have unfortunately delayed it for three years to restore to the regularity and tradition of the Pan-Hellenic Holy Institute of Evangelistria Tinos. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u440	Thank you, Mr. Armalene. On behalf of SYRIZA, Mr. Syriza has the floor for seven minutes. Here comes Mr. Friend and Mrs. Anagnastopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u441	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my intervention will have three chapters. The first is a few words about the bill, the second concerns the amendment to the IIIET, and the third will be a critical comment, briefly, on morality in general. The draft law. The establishment of the university is an important event, especially when it is taken as criteria for establishing scientific and cognitive issues, as in this case. Objections, of course, will always exist, but it is a good thing that the wider acceptance of its establishment is a good thing. In addition, these two facts and findings arise, the first of the explanatory statement and the body of the draft law, and the second of the debate and the first positions of the political parties. These are always positive developments. So let this be a positive element under discussion, which will further improve as the crucial starting point for the treatment of any pleasurable situations in the past. With regard to the amendment, which is being discussed today and accepted by the Minister, for the Holy Foundation of Evangelistia Tinos, it is intended to bring back the last few years - with a brief exception - its status has been in force, according to Law 349/1976 on the Prime Minister of Constantine Karamanlis. It's not a crusade. It's not an intervention. In addition, it is in line with the pandemic desire of the Tinos, whose silence has been disturbed for three years. This is why the Mayor of Tia and my selective colleague, Mr Ioannis Siotos, is following her with interest. Furthermore, it is not a peak, general personality, for anyone, and most of all for the Church of Greece, the Holy Synod or the countryside metropolitan. It simply restores and continues the institution's tradition from its establishment and during the dissolutions of those who established it. The legislator is in no way prevented from doing so, taking into account society and the fact that for many years his successful and undisturbed course, until his unexplained transformation in 2014, worked in favour of the common interest, State and Church, tested in practice. The vote on this amendment is not a victory or a defeat for anyone, since neither war nor enemies exist. Just restores the tested and successful regime. As for legal texts and decisions, it plays a role in how one reads them and interprets them, as well as in what subject they relate to. I'm closing my intervention with the little about moral comment. Ladies and gentlemen, in commenting on the ethical issues raised many times in the political debates, I believe that it is right to refer to ethical debates as a reasonable accusation. But we must carefully refer to it in the current importance that we attach to it. Self-critical thinking, I am very careful in such references, not because I am afraid or have to hide anything, but because I remember the phrase of Vasilis Aylonitis, from the old good Greek film "spirit and moral, spirit and moral". I'm done here. I referred self-criticism to me, as I said before, in order not to understand that, even if hintingly, I am trying to hurt anyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u442	Thank you to Mr. Syragos and to the economy in time. I should like to inform the rapporteurs who will answer, how we will go from the end to the beginning, as he has expressed the desire to speak lastly, listening to all the seconds. So, after Mrs. Anagnostopoulos, Mr. Mavrotas, Mr. Megalamoustakas, Mr. Katsikis, will have the floor to reach Mr. Skouriakos. The Minister will speak last. Mr. Friends has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u443	Thank you, Mr President. I agree with the Minister's wording that the law establishing the University of West Attica is a flagrant initiative by the government. Why a flagship initiative? Because it radically alters the landscape of higher education, gives essential content to the integration of TEIs into higher education and recognises a reality that has been de facto shaped. It is not just a horizontal redeployment of institutions, but it is the end of a targeted process of academic upgrading and redefinition of specificities and cognitive areas, where this is mature, ensuring the consent of the stakeholders and their relevant organs. Under this law, the university's development role is expanded by entrusting him with wider tasks in terms of human capacity formation at national and regional level. But attention. There is a risk to be addressed. This is also the complete and iso-tertiary homogenisation of university institutions, both at the level of curricula and at the level of educational practices and methods. A single area that we are serving and want to create does not mean abolishing the differentiations between universities, TEIs and research centres. It is obvious that the diversity of university institutions must be reflected in the basic founding article of the law that will create them. The University of Western Attica comes from institutions with particular emphasis on the application of sciences and arts, and this must be its main aim. It is important that it is not cut off from its history and from the tens of thousands of its graduates, who have made a decisive contribution in many areas to economic and social development and in many cases have a privileged absorption from the labour market. As far as education methods are concerned, it would be useful to allow alternative, differentiated pedagogical practices to be applied which serve the purpose of this university institution. The university can thus be addressed to different audiences, which have specific characteristics and needs, but also meet the requirements of specific qualifications. Contractors: The two TEIs, which operated at a high level, dare I say, academic but also research offering, were largely supported, apart from their regular staff, and to the contractors. The hundreds of contractors of the two TEIs who merge are an invested educational fund, which must also be used in the new course of the University of West Attica. It would be wrong for this invested educational fund not to be placed at the service of the new West Attica University. Ladies and gentlemen, in the draft law before us we see that it is possible in the context of a university to bring together many speedy study programmes. The two-year programme is already being introduced. I don't want to get ahead of you. We need a great deal of attention, because we may be looking at a change, for example, in relation to what we know is tertiary education. I think that at a time when we need productive reconstruction we need to strengthen the implementation research in this region, in Greece, in deindustrialisation, it is wrong not to emphasise the applied nature of science. At the same time, I believe that it is wrong not to take serious account of the fact that there is a distinction between basic research and application research, the removal of which cannot lead to multiple speeds within a university institution in a model of university - anonymous company. It is not the intention of the bill, but in practice it will show what will happen and whether the distant echo of the thirteenth experience can also be inspired in Greek reality. I would just like to say here that it is Mr Mitsotakis' speech. Indeed, Mr. Mitsotakis has a different philosophy. The Minister said so earlier. Be careful, though: The devil hides in the details. It therefore wants a great deal of attention to ensure that the implementation, establishment and implementation of the provisions for a university of application, to which we referred earlier, is not a process that opens uncontrollable directions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] If you allow me, Mr President, I should like to raise two points. The first issue concerns four-year-old children in kindergartens. It is right that this educational direction, which is adopted and proposed by the Ministry with the bill. In order for this direction to be able to be met, however, certain conditions are needed. I have seen an amendment which gives the possibility of a more flexible application. I believe that we are not ready for a universal application of this direction, that the four-year-olds will go to kindergartens. We need to see how, what conditions they need. In kindergartens are that preschool grade with the worst logistics infrastructure. We all know the state of school. There is a need for recruitment of staff, kindergartens and bankers. It is not possible for kindergarteners to have that responsibility as well. We therefore need to see how they will be extended from nine months a year to eleven months, while the day-to-day kindergartens are working. It's a long-term project. It's not something that happens tomorrow. We need to start and have programming, how it will be implemented in the next three years. That's a target. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] At the same time, it must be made clear to the workers at the kindergartens that their work is ensured, not because they will be underemployed, but because there are thousands of children who today do not go to kindergartens, because, for example, the income criteria. That's gonna change and thousands of new kids will go to the kids' stations. Therefore, without misunderstandings and insistence on certain issues, we need to move together, step by step in that direction. I shall conclude, Mr President, on the issue of the abolition of the multitude of courses in the final examination of high school. This is a direction that we have already established since high school. When I suggested it, in this Chamber, I had heard strong criticism, that we degrade courses, that we dismantle education, etc. I was sure that the Greek family, children and parents, but also teachers, will embrace the measure that the school is not an examination centre, but a place of creation and learning and that knowledge control should not be carried out instantly, once at the end of the educational process each year, but through various diverse processes, tests and others, during the courses. I have to tell you that I feel very pleased by the acceptance by the Greek society and the educational community of the measure of the abolition of multiple courses and of only four courses in the final examination in high school. I believe that in high school too, with its peculiarities vis-à-vis high school, this measure will also, in my opinion, be an introduction to the necessary change in the system for the introduction of children from high school to higher education.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u444	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u445	I think - and I am ending this and thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance - that the issues of major secondary education reform must be done with the necessary consultation and attention and we must move forward and not postpone them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u446	Thank you, Mr. Friend. For seven minutes Mrs Anagnostopoulou has the floor, which concludes the list of speakers, so that we can then proceed to secondary sessions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u447	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the vote on this bill, which mainly concerns the establishment of the University of West Attica. A great deal has been said in committee and in plenary today about the fact that technological education is actually being abolished. They have heard opinions, mainly from the Opposition, for a levelling-up, etc. I'd like to start with one thing. It was right to separate the 2001 Act between the base research, the basic research and the implementation research. I would like to ask, however, what the Greek society has invested in higher technological education. He didn't invest almost anything. The reality created from the state's point of view was that higher technical education was linked to support for locally-dispersed areas, more to deindustrialisation rather than industrialisation, and on the other hand to support services and consumerism. Second point: How has the state upgraded and strengthened technological education to date? No way. Just to mention that, when they were giving TEI or SPD members to universities and TEIs, TEIs have always been the ones that had the least of the world. We also dealt with this when we gave TENs and SPD members who, in order not to spoil the speech of universities, have always left TEIs underneath. Thirdly, can I remind you of the 'Athena' project - which fortunately comes back with the bill - and how horizontally, completely irrationally closed sections without any study? So don't talk about higher technical education in that country, when all TEIs themselves did - some TEIs - and their important departments were that de facto created a state of higher education, while the state had them as a second-class, and that was a concept in the world. Unfortunately or happily, in our country an institution acquires the prestige it needs to continue, either as a Technology of Applied Sciences or as a Forest Research, if it is called a university. It's tradition in this place. Unfortunately or happily, I will say. Remind the Haroscope, remind the ASAOEE, to remind Panteion? Therefore, the title "university", especially in a degraded area of Attica, is very important for upgrading the same technological studies. It has not been done 'in the air'. I had the opportunity with Mr. Bratakos of the Athens TEI and with Mr. Vryzidis of TEI Piraeus to have discussed the issue a lot since the end of 2015. Then Mr Gabroglou took over and continued the debate on the academicity of the foundations and how this assimilation of one another would take place. So here it is done with study. I would agree with Mr Philly that the technological character, that is, universities of applied sciences, must be guaranteed. It is very important, especially in an area such as that of Attica, but also in other parts of the country. I would like to say at this point that the term 'university' which I told you what process it has in our country, and indeed 'applied sciences' in a degraded area, which none of us have said, is that it is not only linked to development, productive reconstruction - which is, of course, extremely critical in the times that we live - but it is also linked to culture. A university and the term "university" become a cultural institution and a source of culture in an area. Let us not underestimate this. There are a few topics which Mr Friend mentioned, and I shall mention only as titles: the subject of contractors, because the TEIs, because they did not take people, permanent staff, were based on the contractors. So it is not a marginal group, but we need to see what happens. It covered very important educational and research work. It is also the subject of the graduates of these two TEIs, which must be provided with care. One thing, Minister, for which I have a question, and I would like to see how the two-year structures in the universities will work in practice. It's a complex matter. It can lead to models of the type of England, Australia, or privatization within the highest institutions. There I think there is a lot of attention and we need to see how you can guarantee that universities do not work with a double role and with a public role, but on the other hand with private-law legal entities. I don't mean, because I don't have time for fourteen-year-olds and preschool. For all of you who say that you are modernists, Europeans and all of this, I will say that in most European countries the kindergarten begins from the three years and not from the four, as in Belgium I will tell you, for example, because I know that very well. But that's not the point. I agree on infrastructure and all that, but do not say what we want. I would like to end with the major issue of professional rights. We cannot talk about education, higher education of applied sciences, productive reconstruction and all this if the question of professional rights is not resolved. We know what happened, but we will no longer use as an excuse what happened. I know about the committees. And on our own behalf a committee was set up, which is continuing. This quarrel and killing between different bodies must end and people must be guaranteed. In fact, they are not only the engineers of the TEIs, but they are the geotechnics of the TEIs, as are other specialties that are important. With regard to the translations, we welcome this and, in fact, we believe that they should be extended. One last point I would like to raise concerns the law, which was mentioned by the Chief of Staff. We say - and there is pressure - to recognize the School of Law from the private universities of Cyprus. That means there's a demand. We need to distinguish one thing: if it has unemployment one school or not, it is one topic and another completely different topic is what each person wants to study. The state can't limit him to what he wants to study. We cannot be open to private universities and when it comes to establishing a school being opposed. I would like to ask here on academic criteria, on the basis of sustainability criteria or on whether there are infrastructures and all that, is it not the establishment of a School of Law bothering, but is the establishment of a School of Law in Patras annoying? Is that the big problem? I'm not sure. I could argue. Minister, we have tabled an amendment to the ETUC, which we set academic criteria and insurance margins on how the ETFs are founded at universities, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u448	We accepted her.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u449	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u450	Thank you to Mrs. Anagnastopoulou. Ladies and gentlemen, the list of speakers has been completed and we will proceed to secondary dates. As I said before, I propose that we set aside the time, without being binding, for all of you. So we'll start in reverse with Mr. Mavrotas on behalf of the river for five minutes. If you need more time, Mr. Comrade, you can have him.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u451	I'm going to need less time, Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, following the debate in the Committee on Morphic Affairs and because you had shown understanding on several of the issues raised by the institutions, but also some of the Members, we thought that you would include some of these comments, such as the structure of the schools, how the famous School of Biomedical Sciences could break down in individual sections or the School of Bible Arts and Packaging to be transferred to the School of Engineering and not to the School of Arts that is now. Unfortunately, however, we did not see that. You have considered one of the comments we made about graduate students, that they are not children of a lower God, and they should also receive a university degree - that is, those who are now - like undergraduate students, but those who are graduates, we have not seen any care. Also, in Article 29 for mergers of the various specialties, we received many messages about objections from theatreists, radiopharmologists, environmentalists, musicians, etc. We haven't seen any changes. Now, in relation to the "multimodology" you deposited, of the forty-seven pages, it has some arrangements in Article 3 for the Open University, for the PSC. There you will essentially designate the three Vice-Presidents, as you have appointed the President. I take this opportunity to ask how the timetable for the PSUR is going, namely, for the process of obtaining a conference. In a question we had asked in January 2017, you said that you were waiting for the presidential decree on the establishment plan. One question is: What stage are we in? I would also like you to explain this to us a little bit about the cost of the Minister's decision. So until now, was the President's decision not the expenditure of the President of the three Vice-Presidents? Finally, to close in three minutes, the amendment, the'multimodalology', the forty-seven pages, and the number of legislative improvements show that in the end this is a bill which was not mature enough to come to plenary. Legislative improvements have several corrections, but also micro-directions, I would say, last minute. To conclude, you will also bring some changes to Article 17 concerning the translations, while we said that the subject of the translations would be a debate over the next fifteen days. Would it not be more prudent or would it indicate that you are counting more on us if you did not bring any legislative improvement to Article 17, but did you expect to see the conclusions that will come out of the proposals of the parties that you have asked within 15 days to discuss the very big and critical social issue of the rewrites? That's all from me. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u452	Thank you, Mr. Mavrota. You were consistent. Mr Megamomustakas, on behalf of the Union of Central and Eastern Europeans, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u453	Since the first meetings of the committees, Mr Ministers, we have had a positive attitude and we wanted to address such a bill positively, as we did. Indeed, given the great responsibility we have from this position, we have made our proposals. I would agree with the previous speaker, Mr Mavrotas, that unfortunately you have not taken much of what we have said to you. No corrections were made that we thought should be made. The bill, indeed, was not ready for debate in plenary, in the Greek Parliament, as we saw that there were too many legislative improvements. There are amendments that have come at the last minute. I also mentioned in my prototype about this huge multimodalism which regulates too many issues, which are not necessarily bad. We will probably be voting in favour of it. However, I think he should come another way. Another sad thing, too, which happened today was the about one hour interruption, for me, of today's debate on the University of Western Attica, as only that is why we were not talking for one hour, when Mr Janakopoulos intervened, and then today's debate left her essence, escaped from her path and unfortunately followed something tragic. Parliament has now become an area of controversy on issues that we have spoken about. I have heard about 'NOVARTIS'. I heard to talk about the former Minister. That's sad. Every time we go to the Step, whenever we are either in a Commission or in a plenary on a draft law of the Ministry of Education, we have said that education must be an area of understanding over-party that goes beyond all these micro-political and micro-group aspirations. We will not vote in favour of this bill, but we cannot vote against it either. You will understand why we choose the "residents", having voted in favour of many articles from this bill. However, the way that has come, the procedures that have been followed, and even the attitude of some of the government representatives, do not allow us to applaud your position, not necessarily of the ministers, but of the entire government. Education - I say this again to close with this - is a very serious part, which we must sincerely, honestly and responsibly deal with. That's what we're asking for. Education is the beginning of all. I say it and I will say it again and every time I get the opportunity to defend it. Therefore, we must not react and do as it has done today, but have a very special way of being sensitive to these issues. I am telling you, it was not only the attitude of the ministers who bothered us, but also of many executives. Even parliamentarians spoke of issues such as 'NOVARTIS' and scandals, the construction that was discussed last week. We want to stress that we, when matters of education come, come to Parliament to see them positively and we hope that will happen from all sides today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u454	Thank you, Mr. Megalustakas. On behalf of the Independent Greeks, Mr Katsikis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u455	Thank you, Mr President. I'm going to be a bad congressman today. Although a young man who needs to learn, I still hear that we have to break the Rules of Procedure, and I also have to derogate the item on the agenda, break the Rules of Procedure and thank Mr Mitsotakis, the President of the New Democracy, why he came in this Chamber to tell us how great interest he is in Mandra Idylia, the drowned there and our national tragedy a few months ago. Since that region, ladies and gentlemen, is part of my constituency, I would like to contradict the arguments it has put forward, expressing its interest and trying to create the comparative advantage for it, essentially in my view, by covering gaps in its communication policy. So I will tell you that this government, apart from having worked and worked perfectly the state machine to provide all possible help to those people, has for the first time given the financial aid of five and eight thousand respectively to households and businesses. It has never been done before and it has even been done in very short time. In addition, the Prime Minister and the Ministers expressed their great interest in the Western Attica Development Conference a few months ago when they raised issues relating to infrastructures that they will make use of in the region, so that the mistakes of the past do not happen again, and, anyway, there is a government policy such as to really change things. We can now boast that we have the comparative advantage over past policies. Let me now finish what I started to say. We don't serve the chair. We don't betray the people's command. We will run out for the four years and thank the New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis who no longer wants elections. He didn't ask for elections again. And Mr. Dendias - when the plenary met in another Chamber, in that Senate - wished SYRIZA "years a lot about the anniversary and time in our homes". So he accepted that by next year we will be government. I now come to the amendments, starting with the amendment which the honourable Minister rejected, my amendment, 1482/147, which concerned the transfer of orphan students from either one or two parents. Of course, with his sensitivity and spirit, he promised that in consultation with both the other parties and with their consent a proposal will be requested in order to settle the matter. However, it remains an unjust topic for settlement, ladies and gentlemen, where state care is not enough for these children who are depriving of one or both of their deaths, within a family which, as we all have to know, is not able to cope with the enormous difficulties in their lives. You will allow me, Minister, to tell you - and it would be right - to reconsider the issue of rejecting my amendment. Unfortunately, time is at the expense of these children, given the length of time it will take to reach a consensus in a more general law on relocations. Perhaps this time will be at the expense of the lives of these students. Any decisions contrary to the progress of their studies may 'convict them' for the rest of their lives. Let me tell you that you have excluded my amendment from the reasoning you have developed, but you have included the translations - and you have well done - in Article 17 of this bill, which provides for two brothers, two children of a family, to be transferred to a city, so that, as you quite rightly said, the family does not pay for more than two homes, including its own. I would add to this that with Amendment No 1499 and number 163, signed by the Minister of Finance, Mr Tsakalotos, you and Mrs Gerovasili, it seems that you are in agreement, while she has translations in it. You do not, of course, - I repeat with complaint - mine, but you agree with the one who has the translations of clergy in the priestly departments of the high church academies. The reasoning and reasoning behind this amendment is that you have the decision to accept it, Mr Minister, and we shall vote on it, and it is, of course, the right to rewrite these students, that is, the clergy. It is a right that they will be able to perform their sacred function and to attend church academies. So there is also an exception here, which gives me the decision to table it before you, at the same time as my sadness and sadness. I now come to the last amendment, Mr President, to finish, which is Tinos' amendment. I really have concerns here, and I don't understand some things. What do we change? Something that had previously been amended and we are trying to bring it back to its earliest position. What will we achieve with this amendment, by changing the administration, the statutes, the form of a church institution, by renamed this to a well-known social institution? Are we going to succeed in changing the charitable and spectacular work that is being done today? Really, is this church institution to be excluded from and subject to other law provisions in relation to all the other church establishments in the country, which are subject to provisions similar to those that currently fall under and the Pan-Hellenic Holy Foundation of Evangelist Tinos? Truth, so far it does not offer the same services, the same unfavourable work that it has done before? What's changed? So does it not have the character of an institution which is intended to finance issues of port, Community, water supplies, roads, orcharding of the city of Tinos, pilgrim housing, scholarships, museums, implementation of popular demands? Is anything changed? Isn't the administration of the church institution still at the level of supply? And the mayor, who was here and gave us the honor of watching us, can he say something opposite to what Metropolitan Mr Dorotheos does, who continues to give 10% to local society?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u456	What's this?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u457	The problems are, Mr President, wrong or correct, in any case I have to tell them. And, finally, the contributors, after the law of Mr Loverd, who changed things, did not appeal to the Council of State to date, thus as applicants, reacters and dissidents. What did they do? Their application has been rejected. I do not know if I will become a prophet of good or bad, but they will re-enter if this amendment is passed, which we will vote against, ladies and gentlemen - the Independent Greeks will vote against - again in the Council of State and fall into this piece of legislation that you want to vote in favour of today. Mr President, thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u458	Be well, Mr. Katsiki. Mr. Delis has the floor. Mr. Colleague, I'm putting you five minutes from there and you're handling it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u459	Thank you, Mr President. I think the anti-lingual character of the bill has been revealed, not only from us, but, without perhaps wanting or seeking to do so, from the rest of the speakers. The anti-grassroots character is, of course, the deepest target of the establishment of the University of West Attica as a servant of the great business interests in the region. Okay. You call that growth. We call it different. We're not gonna fight about the names now. The substance counts. And this has been confirmed not only by the positive vote of the New Democracy and other parties - your strategic engagement is taking place once again very clearly when the mist of Scandalology, which we have seen here this evening - has also been confirmed by the Chief of Officerial Response who has come here in the debate to provide his own support for the project of the University of Western Attica and to personally guarantee the institution's tightening-up by the big businessmen, as he said. SYRIZA and New Democracy therefore compete for who best serves the interests of capital. The anti-educational project, however, was perceived in addition to us - from the JRC - and the students of the Athens and Piraeus TEIs who, with their current mobilisation outside the House, were opposed to this. I am tabling the motion for a resolution on the mobilisation of the student clubs that took part in it. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Delis, presents for the minutes this resolution, which is found in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I'm going further. In reply to our criticism of the training centres set up in universities - this is our criticism, that they are feeders - an inexpensive youth labour force in business groups, he wondered how we call this when the JRC is struggling to have a job and that today we do not have socialist businesses, but only capitalist ones. Okay, we're trying to make them healthy. Look, the right to work claims it and will unreservedly claim it from our party, with wages and rights such as that which meets today's modern needs. We did not, however, know, Minister, that in order to abolish the disgrace of the underprivileged, not even the young people of apprenticeship and practice, but only 75% of this underpaid wage, we did not know that socialism would still need to be abolished. Not even that? You don't even want to do that? And then you talk about the rights of the new generation? Our request is for now and we'll say it again and it's the least. So we challenge you. Remove now the shameful division of workers into, and after, twenty-five years and vote for, the EUR 751 minimum wage for all and young people. I come to the issue of pre-school education. It seems to me that the government's disorientative game with the Central Association of Municipalities of Greece enters other urban parties with the "yes but" as well as "speakings". And how could that not be done, when you all agree with the commercialisation of this essential social need, do you agree with the foods and all the voucher outlets? We shall vote'residents' in this particular provision not only because it is literally partisan, since it is not accompanied by the slightest prediction of any measure that supports it in practice, but also because the regulation as it stands, but also because it appears from what the Minister has said in the debate before, allows the necessary two-year compulsory pre-school treatment to be not, in the end, exclusively public or free. For prison schools, we'll vote for the order. Alas. The Communists, moreover, have created schools and schools even in the years of their most brutal persecution. And I suggest here the excellent book of Sunday Kamarinou entitled "The Stone Universities". However, we have some concerns and we want to present them. If the new prison school units operate autonomously rather than as school units' annexes, as has been done so far, then is there no risk that the degrees they will grant in case of registration, relocation or dismissal that these titles have been obtained in prison? Isn't that a stigma? Isn't it even a breach of personal data? Is there no danger that these autonomous prison schools you are building will be deprived of experienced educational staff with relevant studies and training, if they remain as annexes to existing school units? Think about it. For the amendments now. Before I refer to the amendments tabled by our party, a few words about two ministerial amendments relating to education. The first one says that if a school building rental contest is both barren, then the rental building intended for the housing of a school can also be made in an area with an authorised use other than that provided for in the relevant declaration. So where? Any place? In a warehouse, like? Or in former factories like this in Thessaloniki, at the 2nd Special School of Pylaea, which is full of mice with the risk of detailing teachers and children? We have tabled a written question on this. The second amendment refers to school meals, not to the real problems that have arisen with the roughness and indifference of their implementation, but to the bureaucratic problems that have been identified. However, it is now necessary, Minister, to ensure all the conditions for the hygiene and safety of school meals with suitable spaces and with bankers and, of course, not with teachers as waiters and food inspectors. I now go to the two amendments tabled by our party and rejected by the Minister. We are focusing on the first graduates of the two ATEs who are merged and proposed, but rejected, all of them are equal to the new degrees that will emerge from the respective departments of the University of Western Attica. I want to explain the logic of the proposal. This measure is a partial lifting measure of the multiclassification of diplomas on the same scientific subject. The degrees of the former two TEIs of Athens and Piraeus, as well as the new degrees of the University of Western Attica, are four-year degrees in higher education and there is no justification for the separation and categorisation of their graduates. The second amendment we have tabled is that it puts an end to the acute problem of many people's families for the relocation of their children to institutions in their homes, since the provision of the bill actually leaves the vast majority of those who need to be relocated. And yet, the Minister rejected it. We have therefore proposed - to hear what has been rejected, namely - that the children of those who have low incomes should be entitled to relocate. And the limit of the annual family income, we put it at EUR 25 000 - is not rich at EUR 25 000 per year - increasing by 5,000 for each child. The same is true of the children of all the single parents, of the disabled - and here without income criteria - who have the same status as children from third countries and from multitude families and of families who have even an unemployed person at home, and of this possibility even applies to those who are in the fifth year of their studies.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u460	Mr. Colleague, we're in seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u461	I shall conclude, Mr President. All this has been rejected by the Minister, announcing an vague promise of future regulations. But as our people say, Minister, whoever doesn't want to ferment forty days is sifting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u462	Thank you, Mr. Delis. Mr. Hadjisavvas has the floor for the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u463	Mr President, I do not have much to add, since there has been no progress in the bill. As it first came to work in committee, it continued in plenary. The Minister did what he wanted without taking into account the protests and suggestions of the institutions. But I am also trying to find out where exactly the emblematicity of the bill we are discussing lies and all I find is an ideality for the government and, of course, for education, for all the other things, for a service of collaborative interests with parliamentary amendments, which I see to be applauded by the Members below as if they had achieved something very important for them. You are talking about abolishing the relationship between Church and State, while at every opportunity you are trying to intervene on matters of the Church. There are people coming here today, like Mr Manius, Mr President, to talk about what was wrong, he says, 'The Golden Dawn Government'! In other words, they have the courage, Mr President, that the representatives of the government who have ruled the three out of the ten years of the monuments in Greece, who made fun of the Greek people that they would tear up the memorials and, finally, flew the result of the referendum, which told the Greek people that they would bring work for the parents of the children, bring back the children of the mothers who left abroad and stop the bleeding of our young people toward abroad, who have impoverished the Greek families to such an extent that they cannot study not two or three children, but not even one child many times, mocking even now Greek families with fireworks and ambiguities, as well as for the other ones. But this is something of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u464	Thank you, Mr. Hadjisavva. Mr Gregorakos has the floor on behalf of the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u465	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, we had a very good debate in the committees. I think there has been a constructive debate. You did, of course, try to do something different and build a university, which would have a different gradient from all the other educational establishments in the country. But, unfortunately, you did not manage to overcome yourself, because we ourselves, which we have been struggling for so many years to make the University of Western Attica a reality and we wanted it to be integrated into a large framework of higher education without any distinction between HEI and TEI, unfortunately we did not make that a reality. It has not finally been unified through this bill that the higher education has been non-discriminatory. That is what we wanted to do in recent years, because we now believe that technological education has been overtaken, as the university needs to be upgraded. I think we could build a unified university in Greece without distinction between TEIs and universities. Minister, we went to PARON, because we believe there would be a better mood from your side to get into deeper issues of education in Greece. This bill is an election bill, which seeks to encapsulate Western Attica, but also fifty thousand students and teachers in a programme by which the SYRIZA - ANEL Co-government wants to say that it has done something for education, while in fact education has been underfunded in recent years. So we will go to the'residences' in this bill, if in many articles we will vote 'yes'. I would like to speak in particular about the amendment of the Pan-Hellenic Holy Foundation of Evangelist Tinos. And I am referring to this, even though we will be voting on many articles in the bill, even though in principle we are voting 'at present', because I believe that Mr Xydakis has tabled to the House an act of Commissioners rather than the covenant. Of course, we will see that because, as you can see, this amendment to the Tinos Foundation will have a follow-up. I believe that some will appeal against this covenant, which is not a covenant, but an act of Commissioners. We will therefore vote 'no' in this amendment. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u466	Thank you, Mr. Gregoraco. Mrs Kerameo has the floor on behalf of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u467	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall briefly refer to some of the amendments tabled in the bill under discussion. And I will start, Minister, from the amendment by the Ministry of the Interior, which has already been incorporated into the body of the bill, in Article 35. You say in Article 35 that a building is allowed for the accommodation of a primary or secondary school unit, regardless of the institutionalised use of the area. Here, Minister, I am particularly surprised that while you have exclaimed the report of the Scientific Office of the Parliament, did you not note that this provision says that unconstitutional issues are being raised? And I ask, what are you going to do about it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u468	We've withdrawn that!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u469	You didn't withdraw it. It's Article 35 in your bill. We'll see it in the bill body. However, in any case, I hope you do not close your ears to this possible unconstitutionality. Secondly, with regard to the amendment of the Ministry of Labour on school meals, Mr Ministers, the New Democracy supports in this respect the care of pupils. But here it makes something of a special impression: you are relegating directly, by way of derogation from the rules in force. And I ask: why direct assignment? Why do you claim to be 'every word of the Constitution, every word of all the legislation', why do you legislate again by way of derogation? Thirdly, on the amendment to the responsibility of the Ministry of Education, on the reopening of the posts for TENs, SPDs, EDPS and the EIB, given that the reopening of these members is facilitated, in cases where these positions have been adopted but are empty or in cases where, for some reason, the election has become barren or the elector does not accept his appointment, for that reason, because it is precisely foresees the reopening of these posts, we are positive and we are voting in favour of this provision. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a fact that undermining the institutions is a real problem and we see positive arrangements that are moving towards a solution to this problem. And I come to Amendment No 1491 on the EEA. Here, Minister, I admit I didn't expect that. And I did not expect that to happen, because you are in the most improperly confessing to your illegal previous legislation, regarding the placement of the agency's CEO. By changing the procedure for adopting the operating regulation, you admit yourself that the ministerial decision you adopted in December 2017 on the operational regulation of the EEAP was illegal, as this regulation requires, given that there are working matters, the signature of the Minister of Labour. Therefore, it provides for a DAC and not a simple ministerial decision. And the amendment you are bringing now, not only does it cure these problems legally, but it also raises additional legal issues, as it provides for a ministerial decision by the Minister of Education alone, but for issues which do not belong exclusively to his competence. One more thing about this amendment: With the legislative coverage of its appointment, and indeed with retroactive effect, you confess that the placement of that person in the post of CEO was illegal, as the secondment from the post to the State was never completed. And the amendment you are bringing to the vote today provides for what Mr Baxvanakis' provocatively anticipated, noting that it is no longer a prerequisite for secondment and that the Minister himself chooses to do so. And I ask, Mr Ministers: is this the resolution of your visionary organization? Is that your vision? We will be very strict here, Mr President-in-Office. It is not that we are voting against. We condemn these practices and call for the withdrawal of this amendment here and now, because otherwise what you say about resolution, about clean rules, is all an empty letter. Mr Minister, this amendment, this issue of fifty pages which has come, has too many provisions and I shall refer only to two articles. First of all, for the evaluation of high school students, the amendment of the Presidential Decree of 2016. Minister, Mr Gavroglou, I honestly did not expect that after two national dialogues on education and so much wishing announcements to strengthen the autonomous character of high school, your reformist signal would capture it in a 50-page amendment of the last three hours of a legislative process. We've been waiting for more, Minister. A reference, of course, to the third article in the amendment, to the students affected by natural disasters, should be introduced in excess of the number of importers. Of course we are positive about this. I shall end, Mr President, with one final comment. Minister, again on the Scientific Service of the House. It says the Scientific Agency for another provision that there is a significant risk of unconstitutionality. And it says it about the provision of provision 19/5 that a presiding decree can be converted into a university sector institution in a technology field. And he directly tells you, Minister, that this provision is contrary to Article 16 of the Constitution. I was surprised, too, because I did not hear a single word say on it. The Scientific Service of Parliament tells you that Article 16 of the Constitution is being violated and you said nothing about it. I expect you to say something in your final speech. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u470	Thank you, Mrs. Keramea. Last of the rapporteurs and the special speakers, Mr Skourikos, on behalf of SYRIZA. You have the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u471	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the presence of the Chief of Officerial Opposition and his speech here today, in the bill establishing the University of West Attica, gave many colleagues the opportunity to make some comments. My feeling is that Mr. Mitsotakis came to defend the creation of the University of Western Attica. He's come to be involved in something positive that's going on. He didn't miss a chance. Of course, he wants another university. He doesn't want the university that we mean. But the Minister explained them very thoroughly and I do not need to repeat them. Of course, so positive that he was, we have to say that he has been a Member for several years, he has been a minister and his party has been in power for decades. They had the opportunity to do such a university themselves, many years ago, and they left and passed many opportunities. While he was positive, it seems that he had not been consulted with his MPs, because it was really an attempt to devaluate the establishment of the University of Western Attica, while degrading his two main founding pillars, the TEI of Athens and Piraeus. The external evaluations of the two institutions by the IPPC with its positive rating, their participation in a number of research programs and the international insight of their academic prestige did not stimulate opposition. I regret to say that opposition has offended the work and history of the two technological educational institutions. It offends teaching staff, children there and those who have graduated. I was struck by the insistence with which questions were raised which have been answered many times in both committees and here. I was impressed by the position of a party that was positive in the committees and we heard other things here today. There was a parliamentary party representative who spoke not at all about the bill, but about other things. He was a member of the New Democracy, who "done from the clouds" and wondered how it is possible for the teacher of the TEI to become a university professor. It appears that no one told him that teachers of TEIs have been members of higher education institutions in accordance with the laws of the State and have been judged to be such since 2001. I would like you to allow me to point out a few points of a job produced by a delegation of members of the Department of Health and Welfare Administration. They note, therefore, that these teachers: "The founding of the University of Western Attica is a very important and highly bold political project for the redesign of higher education. It has shown that the new university and the Department of Health and Welfare Units, to which we belong, will contribute to the development effort of the national economy with a human and social face. This educational project is based on the scientific guarantees of the two institutions, on the academic qualifications of the teachers, as well as on the level of students who are highly rated, the necessary conditions of their academic integration." And please note: "It is certain that the institutional integration of higher education is of additional importance to the Western Attica, which has increased inequalities, high negative social indicators, high rates of poverty and low social capital." That is not what the government says in writing. SYRIZA doesn't say so to the voters. It is not said by a SYRIZA MEP who is elected in the Attica region, such as speeches, to unwritten votes. And because we talked about Mandra, I would like to note that I saw the Chief of Officer's Opposition announcing that she went to Mandra three times in the last hundred days. Really? The Chief of the New Democracy must go to Mandra and the leaders who will follow and apologize every day for the situation in which they have left this area for years in which they have ruled, for the drones, for the dumps, for the unregulated construction. SYRIZA didn't rule when all the things that caused the disaster were done and we mourned people. The creation, therefore, of the University of West Attica results from the need to provide quality education and fulfils the obligation of the state to ensure a high level of university education so that the graduates then enjoy decent professional outlets. It will contribute to the integration of occupational safety and to the development of a realistic programme for teachers, who are protagonists in this story. The predictions taken on other issues than the establishment of the university in this bill - I would like to mention this - restore fair treatment to students and students of the ESDP. These children are just as important to us as the students and students of general high school. It's all our children and they deserve an upgraded public education. SYRIZA - ANEL Government supports public education. At least for the New Democracy, I have the feeling that if it is disturbed by something in the establishment of the University of West Attica, it is that another public university is being established. If we were to discuss the establishment of a private university here today, I think they would be three-year-olds. Only in public, no one pays to study, while in private they have to pay and they have to pay. The creation of the University of Western Attica is a mature development that contributes to the upgrading of education in our country, as well as the processes carried out in other regions of the country, Epirus, the Ionian Islands, western Macedonia, will go ahead so that we can have higher education worthy of the country and its children. I have heard the Minister as an example of the fact that it could be at the University of West Attica that a school of arts could be set up. It is well known that this is a very old demand for creators in our country. We need talented artists, actors, directors, dressers, lighters, but also with academic education as is done in all countries of the world. In Afghanistan and the University of Kabul there is a school of theatrical studies with three departments, for actors, directors and writers. As for the establishment of the University of West Attica, I am sorry to repeat something which is disturbing to our colleagues in the Opposition. The establishment of this university was just and is done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u472	Thank you, Mr. Darkness.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u473	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u474	Here you go, Mrs. Karamura.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u475	While we were at the end of the sitting, we were again shared by this 50-page amendment. I would urge the Minister very warmly to tell us what the changes are about. You understand that it is impossible within the next two minutes that the vote will start to know what changes you have made to a text of fifty pages. Please tell us in detail what changes you have made at the last minute in this amendment and explain to us whether it will be voted on as an amendment or whether it will be incorporated into the articles and, if so, what article in the bill. There is a complete confusion about this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u476	Mr. Syragos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u477	Mr President, what I shall put to you is related to the procedure and is subject to your own crisis. In accordance with Rule 102(3), the right to a second part of the question referred for a preliminary ruling has only been exercised by those who so request and if they so request by the end of each article's phase. In this sense - and I will comply with any decision you take - I would like for one minute to give a second answer on the amendment which will take the number of articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u478	I will give the floor to Mr Xydakis, who has the right to secondaryize as a parliamentary representative, and then I will reply to you. Mr. Xydakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u479	Thank you, Mr President. Some objections were raised about the amendment to the Tinos Foundation by the Vice-Presidents, by the Democratic Reconciliation, but also by the government partner, Mr Katsiki. I would first like to clarify Mr Gregorakou's objection to the fact that we have brought a piece of paper. I don't know exactly what you mean. Did you hear the arguments? Cards are worthy of them. It is the oldest document concerning the Panhellenic Foundation of Tinos, 1825. It's the vet's will. He's in the institution's file, and he's writing exactly what he is. In addition, readers are presumptions that are presented to assist the political argument. The political argument is this, and I have said so extensively and in detail and rather peacefully. We claim that in 2014, about three and a half years ago, the Charter of the Church of Greece was fundamentally changed to change this institution, which had a specific national public character for a period of two hundred years. No legislator nor the Kingdom of Greece of the 19th century, Otto, nor the kingdoms of Greece later either the democracies or the dictatorship of Metaxas, no one postwarally changed the character of this institution. Only the dictatorship of the colonists in 1969 changed the character of the institution. He did it in a church establishment. And there is a difference between the legal person of public law and the ecclesiastical institution. A legal person governed by public law is subject to the provisions of public accounting and public law throughout the State, and the ecclesiastical institution is governed by regulations adopted by the Holy Synod. It's another thing. The sanctuary pilgrimage of Saint John the Russian or Panagia of Sumola are ecclesiastical institutions. It's another thing. This is traditionally, according to and according to law, with a body of laws. No law regulating the Greek state by the establishment of the State, which arranged the relations of the Church and the establishment of the Self-Headed Church, changed the nature of this institution. Juda did it. So he came to the Third Hellenic Republic with the restoration of democracy and the government of Karamanlis in 1976, with the Minister of Education Georgios Rallis, restored this order and, furthermore, as a generous democracy and because it was the product of a great, broad dialogue, then the charter agreed that the state should be granted the presidency to the country of metropolitan, beyond the tradition. The junta has abolished it and democracy has restored it. And at night, an amendment in 2014 came and focally changed the charter. All, Mr Gregorakos, respected the charter and the agreement between the State - Church in Transmigration. Focally changed the character of an institution. Why do you wonder? You are politicians, you have experience, you know people and situations, as we all know them in the Chamber and many more people from the Cyclades. I was born there, I'm Cycladic, I've received two scholarships from the Panhellenic Tinos Foundation. I honor the foundation, honor the people of Tinos, honor the Church, but we must honour the agreements, honour the laws, honor the constitutional order. Do you have any of this in mind? I was very careful to read...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u480	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u481	Mr. Gregoraco, and in 1977 and 1979 and the Plenary and Third Chambers of the Council of State fully ratified the law of the Parliament and the 1976 law on the institutions and 1977 statutes. In addition, in 2015, which applied for the cancellation of the administration, it did not accept, for formal reasons, the cancellation of the administration. In its decision, the Council of State confirmed the institution's publicity. For two centuries this character has never been disturbed. How else can we say it? In detail in the explanatory statement, our argument from the Step was...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u482	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u483	We've been through everything. Why, then, this refusal and anyway, why this aggression too? Are we on the side of the Third Hellenic Republic, which restores all the suffering of the post-war? Are we in favour of the creative and peaceful arrest of people and clergy? The Panhellenic Tinos Foundation is an example of creative coexistence and conceiving people and clergy. If we have an example alive for the future relationship between Church and State, for the distinct roles, for the separation of property, it is this institution. Nobody wants to put a hand in the pilgrim icecream. Leave what they say. Others want this. Does the Church want more of the pilgrimages? Goddamn it. Make a gentlemen's deal to get what he deserves, what he wants to get, but co-operation must be a people and lots, especially in this institution, as it was for two centuries. I do not understand the radicalism and innovation of one high priest, while we politicians are much more conservative, we are traditionally going. I don't get it. I don't understand you either, Mr. Gregorakos, who you are from Laconia - ask Father Eustathio to tell you - and you, Mr. Katsiki. You know it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u484	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u485	Mr. Lazarides, you don't sound.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u486	Excuse me, Mr Lazaridis, but in 2014 there was neither a broad political dialogue nor a government dialogue with the Holy Synod. There was a focal amendment that only concerned one institution at night. It is not a product of a great political debate and a product of no reform. It was photographic. That is why, with indignation, I am rather surprised at the fact that I am faced with a constant indifference.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u487	Mr. Xydakis, I think you're made understandable.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u488	Let us do our job as MPs of the Hellenic Republic. This and nothing else. We do not question the rights of the Church, as described in all the laws of the State and the Charter of the Church of 1977. This contract was maintained by the government of Constantine Karamanlis, supported by the Andreas Papandreou governments with the victims of ministers, was preserved by all governments once and with the victims of ministers. So why is there a focal point now coming part of the Church - not all of the Church, but part of the hierarchy - to change this state agreement with the Church, which has been held for forty-five years with political victims? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u489	Thank you, Mr. Xydakis. Mr. Syragos, I give you the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u490	Mr President, I too am referring to the amendment to the IIIET, and I would like to say that threats have been made to the arguments put forward and fears of recourse to justice have been expressed. I'm making something clear. Jurisdiction is a right. That's what we think. We do not regard it as a threat or fear of recourse to justice. I conclude by adding, for the economy of the debate, a saying by the Apostle Paul as a saying by a humble provincial MEP to anyone who can accept it: "You ask for genealogical and pedigree and battle legal circumstance, you are a garg useless and in vain." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u491	Thank you, Mr. Syrgos. Mr. Minister has the floor. How long do you need, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u492	I do not know, Mr President, why various issues have arisen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u493	Minister, I'll give you ten minutes and we'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u494	Thank you very much, Mr President. In Article 17(4), the words ‘and in’ shall be deleted. In addition, Amendment No 1498, and Amendment No 162, replaces paragraph 3, which is the one we have accepted. I'm tabling them for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u495	I really think there has been an extremely rich debate. There's been a lot of moves. We think that this is only good for upgrading TEI, which is the upgrade of higher education. Part of our project, as we have said, is an attempt to change attitudes, which are inherent many times, when people refer to technological education, higher education and, unfortunately, these institutions are often deceived. Everything was done on academic criteria. You may disagree with the academic criteria, but no one has said anything about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u496	What are the academic criteria?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u497	I'll tell you now. Academic criteria are, therefore, criteria which relate to the institutions themselves. They are not criteria that are metaphysical. For example, do they have the possibility of new curricula? They do. Do they have the opportunity to absorb new teaching posts? They do. Do they have the opportunity to monitor developments in the rest of the world? The people who are there are recognized by the international community? This rebuilds, reconstructs cognitive fields. That's what I've been trying to say for so long. You want to have one, two, three, four. That's not the academic criteria. It is much more dialectical and has something to do with the history of each institution. We have said and said again that technological education has been left to its fate, forgetting that technological education is what is going on in our polytechnics. When we talk about technological education, we do not think it is a weaker, second level. In fact, in relation to production, this really is not the fault of the educational institutions. We have spent tens of years of distorting economic growth, a state-run entrepreneurship, and within it any programming has been blown into the air. But be careful now. There is a debate on the subject. This is, in my opinion, the wrong debate. I insist that there are no such divisions nowadays. Science, technology are evolving in ways that new practices integrate both theory and practice and technical and skills. It is a very complex project nowadays, which goes beyond the old division theoretically, practically and applied. I think that there has been a risk that should also be pointed out here. The creation of the two-year programmes must follow very strict procedures. Because there is a risk that what we are accusing the previous governments with the TEIs and the different departments of repeating them with the two-year curriculum. That is why we say that these must go through the institutions' congresses, they must be under the supervision of academics, their programmes, so that they can actually offer a very high level of education. Transcripts. It will be a great opportunity, I think, and it is a very good opportunity for the Greek society to listen to the parties coming to a consultation and agreement on a new law on relocations. It's a very difficult project. It is a technically difficult project, because in Greece and the distribution of the population, as well as the higher education institutions, has not followed any normal development because of our history. Compulsory fourteen-year-old education and this is compulsory two-year-old pre-school education. Rose Mitafidis showed me something that I obviously did not remember, that the Teacher Federation of Greece sixty-one years ago, in 1957, asked for the first time the introduction of the compulsory two-year pre-school education by the then government of Karamanlis. The time has finally come to do this. This is done by this bill. We're going to have a transitional period, a transition period that's difficult and complex that we're planning, we've already planned it. It is a transitional period that will give specific roles to all, both local government and children's stations and nurses and kindergartens. Industries will have the responsibility of these two classes. The nursery will be responsible for the kindergartens. The municipalities will have the responsibility of the children's stations. The Ministry of Education will have the responsibility of kindergartens as part of the fourteen-year-old education. In this plan there will be huge needs for the creation of new kindergartens, for the recruitment of more nurses, for the recruitment of more kindergartens, etc. We already have this plan, it will be implemented in September. It'll take three years during our programming. It'll take three years in cooperation with the municipalities. The municipalities in this must work together, we must be with the municipalities about how these are to be done. Let me mention two, three technical issues. There may be a misunderstanding about the wages paid by the president of INEDIBIM. In the explanatory statement, it is obvious that he will receive a salary. The role of the Management Committee must be such that it comes to May, to the end of June, proposals that we must legislate. It is an unprecedented project, which should be improved every time. And we will await the proposals of the Management Committee. I think we have deleted this with the Scientific Committee of the Parliament, which you mentioned and said about the unconstitutionality of a paragraph.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u498	One, not the other. 19, paragraph 5 is left.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u499	I don't remember it from the outside. I would like to end with two points: the first is that we must once again thank the teachers. The state should be generous to say that we owe teachers the fact that our education, not only has not collapsed, but that we have amazing examples of creativity today in our schools, in our universities. In particular, I think we should consider and consider the huge burden our teachers have in remote areas, in prisons, in middle school and high school and in difficult daily situations that they have to fight against. We really thank them. And I would like to end with something that I do not want to be so difficult and so unpleasant: it is the Tinos amendment. I think the arguments have been completed. I respect all arguments. During these days I had an excellent cooperation with Mr. Ioannis Siotos, the Mayor of Tinos. He gave me all the texts, texts for which Simos Orphanus, the previous mayor, has really fought, regrettably late today, and I think we should all, regardless of what we are going to vote on, accept certain things: Firstly, traditions and, above all, traditions in our country have excellent power. Second, traditions give identities. The identities and local identities in general are based in many ways on traditions. This is also something we need to know. Thousands of citizens of Tinos were not irrelevant, the hundreds of intellectuals, the dozens of priests, who have for so long, since 1823, maintained a harmonious coexistence of people and clergy. This is a historic reality, which we must respect. The junta came in and poisoned all this. And that is what we all have to agree on. And Constantine Karamanlis came to restore normality. And we should be grateful that she had the courage to restore this normality, which the junta itself poisoned. We therefore call for tradition, because tradition underlines a peaceful coexistence for tens of years. Today, I received a letter from the Makariot Archbishop, which analyses very systematically the decision of the Holy Synod. It is a letter which, personally but I think the government, has put us in too serious thoughts. I would like to refer to some parts of this letter. I read: 'We must congratulate the Communist Party of the Communist Party of Greece for its attitude of ideological consistency... for its opposition to this amendment'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u500	It's a distortion.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u501	In any case, I read to you what the letter says.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u502	Of all that in there, is that what you picked?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u503	No, I have more. 'This amendment is a raw violation of religious freedom and the principle of self-government of the Church of Greece. The methodology and political theology, which are promoted by the amendment, are a democratic atom and a constitutionally unacceptable violation of the religious freedoms of the Church of Greece. These unilateral legislative initiatives return the political and religious life of the country to old and painful periods of coup d'état intervention of the State on internal issues of the Church of Greece." Really? In 2018? Do we forget in 1969? We forget which of these years were consistent in terms of distinct roles, and who were they not, until recently? I would ask, with all due respect, that I tell the Holy Synod that it should be more measured in its words. Because if we talk about democracy, democracy is for everyone, it is not just for some. Excuse me for the tone of my voice, but it's a letter, which I don't think is from the bright moments, while there are so many. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u504	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We'll have to take a short break for five minutes, because we're waiting for a legislative improvement, which hasn't come yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u505	What are you talking about, Mr President? Let's go on tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u506	Tomorrow the Minister will be gone. We cannot proceed to the vote. We're taking a five-minute break, and we're coming back.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u507	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. The debate on the principle, articles, amendments and the entire draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs is closed: 'The establishment of the University of Western Attica and other provisions'. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u508	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u509	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u510	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u511	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u512	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u513	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u514	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u515	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u516	The Law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: "the establishment of the University of Western Attica and other provisions", was accepted in principle by a majority. We are entering the vote on articles and amendments and they will be voted on separately. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u517	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u518	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u519	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u520	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u521	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u522	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u523	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u524	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u525	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u526	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u527	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u528	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u529	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u530	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u531	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u532	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u533	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u534	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u535	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u536	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u537	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u538	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u539	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u540	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u541	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u542	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u543	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 4, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u544	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u545	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u546	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u547	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u548	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u549	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u550	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u551	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u552	Article 4 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 5 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u553	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u554	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u555	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u556	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u557	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u558	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u559	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u560	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u561	Article 5 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u562	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u563	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u564	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u565	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u566	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u567	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u568	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u569	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u570	Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u571	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u572	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u573	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u574	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u575	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u576	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u577	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u578	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u579	Article 7 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 8 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u580	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u581	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u582	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u583	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u584	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u585	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u586	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u587	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u588	Article 8 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u589	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u590	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u591	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u592	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u593	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u594	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u595	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u596	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u597	Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u598	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u599	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u600	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u601	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u602	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u603	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u604	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u605	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u606	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 11 as it stands be accepted and a part of Amendment No 1499/163 is added?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u607	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u608	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u609	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u610	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u611	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u612	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u613	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u614	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u615	Article 11 therefore has been accepted as it stands and with the addition of part of Amendment No 1499/163, by a majority. Will Rule 12 be taken as it stands and a part of Amendment No 1499/163 and Amendment No 1501/165 is accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u616	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u617	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u618	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u619	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u620	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u621	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u622	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u623	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u624	Article 12 therefore has been accepted as it stands by adding part of Amendment No 1499/163 and Amendment No 1501/165, by majority vote. Does the House agree to Rule 13, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u625	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u626	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u627	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u628	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u629	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u630	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u631	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u632	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u633	Article 13 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 14 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u634	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u635	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u636	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u637	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u638	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u639	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u640	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u641	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u642	Article 14 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 15 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u643	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u644	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u645	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u646	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u647	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u648	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u649	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u650	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u651	Article 15 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 16 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u652	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u653	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u654	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u655	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u656	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u657	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u658	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u659	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u660	Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 17 be accepted, as amended by the Minister and with the addition of part of Amendment No 1499/163?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u661	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u662	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u663	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u664	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u665	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u666	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u667	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u668	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u669	Article 17 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister and with the addition of part of Amendment No 1499/163 by majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 18 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u670	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u671	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u672	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u673	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u674	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u675	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u676	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u677	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u678	Article 18 was therefore accepted as being majority. Can Article 19, as amended by the Minister and with the addition of part of Amendment No 1499/163, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u679	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u680	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u681	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u682	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u683	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u684	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u685	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u686	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u687	Article 19 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister and with the addition of part of Amendment No 1499/163 by majority vote. Will Rule 20 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u688	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u689	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u690	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u691	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u692	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u693	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u694	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u695	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u696	Article 20 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 21 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u697	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u698	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u699	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u700	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u701	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u702	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u703	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u704	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u705	Article 21 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 22 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u706	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u707	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u708	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u709	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u710	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u711	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u712	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u713	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u714	Article 22 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 23 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u715	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u716	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u717	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u718	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u719	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u720	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u721	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u722	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u723	Article 23 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 24 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u724	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u725	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u726	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u727	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u728	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u729	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u730	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u731	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u732	Article 24 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 25 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u733	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u734	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u735	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u736	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u737	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u738	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u739	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u740	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u741	Article 25 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 26 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u742	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u743	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u744	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u745	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u746	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u747	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u748	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u749	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u750	Article 26 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 27 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u751	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u752	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u753	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u754	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u755	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u756	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u757	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u758	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u759	Article 27 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 28 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u760	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u761	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u762	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u763	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u764	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u765	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u766	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u767	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u768	Article 28 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does the House accept Rule 29, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u769	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u770	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u771	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u772	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u773	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u774	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u775	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u776	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u777	Article 29 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 30 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u778	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u779	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u780	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u781	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u782	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u783	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u784	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u785	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u786	Article 30 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 31 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u787	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u788	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u789	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u790	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u791	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u792	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u793	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u794	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u795	Article 31 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 32 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u796	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u797	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u798	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u799	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u800	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u801	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u802	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u803	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u804	Article 32 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 33 be accepted as amended by Amendment No 1498/162?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u805	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u806	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u807	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u808	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u809	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u810	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u811	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u812	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u813	Article 33 therefore has been accepted as it stands and with the addition of Amendment No 1498/162 by a majority vote. Can Rule 34, as amended by the Minister and with the addition of part of Amendment No 1499/163, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u814	Mr President, can you give us some time for this, why is it fifteen pages?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u815	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u816	Are we in Article 34?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u817	In Rule 34 and in part of Amendment No 1499. They are essentially a replacement for the whole of Article 34. We shall now vote on the article.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u818	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u819	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u820	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u821	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u822	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u823	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u824	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u825	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u826	Article 34 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister and with the addition of part of Amendment No 1499/163 by majority vote. Will Rule 35 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u827	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u828	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u829	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u830	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u831	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u832	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u833	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u834	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u835	Article 35 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 36 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u836	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u837	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u838	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u839	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u840	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u841	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u842	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u843	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u844	Article 36 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 37 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u845	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u846	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u847	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u848	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u849	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u850	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u851	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u852	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u853	Article 37 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 38 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u854	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u855	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u856	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u857	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u858	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u859	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u860	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u861	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u862	Article 38 was therefore accepted as being majority. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 1491 and a special number of 155 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u863	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u864	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u865	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u866	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u867	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u868	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u869	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u870	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u871	Therefore, Amendment No 1491 and a special 155 were accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 1495 and a special number of 159?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u872	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u873	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u874	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u875	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u876	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u877	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u878	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u879	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u880	Therefore, Amendment No 1495, and a special 159, was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 1496 and a special number of 160?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u881	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u882	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u883	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u884	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u885	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u886	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u887	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u888	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u889	Therefore, Amendment No 1496, which was adopted by a qualified majority, was included in the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment with a general number of 1499 and a special number of 163, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u890	Mr. President, I'm sorry. Should we have two minutes here, too, because this has changed?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u891	In fact, it is the part that has not been incorporated into the others that we voted on before.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u892	It's one of the pieces that hasn't joined.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u893	There is a part, which remains as an amendment. Ma'am, are you ready?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u894	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u895	Does the House accept the amendment with a general number of 1499 and a special number of 163, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u896	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u897	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u898	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u899	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u900	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u901	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u902	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u903	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u904	Therefore, the amendment of a general number 1499 and a specialist of 163 was accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of Articles 11, 12, 17, 19 and 34 of the draft law and the same articles. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 1494 and a special number of 158?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u905	Mr President, what article are you in?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u906	In Amendment No 1494, specialising in 158 of the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u907	We're in Article 42 and we're going to Article 43?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u908	We're in 43, and they're clerical transcripts.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u909	So 43. No amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u910	That was the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u911	It's an amendment, 1494.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u912	The new innard.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u913	1494 with special 158.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u914	Which has entered what article?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u915	Article 46.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u916	Articles 43 and 44 have not yet been passed. How'd we go to 46?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u917	The new innard, don't we vote?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u918	We had all these changes. We're asking for some of your grace.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u919	All these articles were taken together with the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u920	You have taken us in an amendment, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u921	Yes, however, have articles that were in Amendment 1499 been preceded by all the other articles?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u922	The four articles. From 42 to 45.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u923	So we're going to 46? So Article 46 is, Mrs. Kerameau.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u924	Mr President, the amendment has been incorporated into the articles. And they are incorporated into separate articles. Article 42, 43, 44. So we have to vote separately on these articles. Forced.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u925	Oh, no. It is the rest of the amendment, which is incorporated as the same articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u926	But they're special articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u927	Another part of the amendment was incorporated into the articles, another one remained, another part was broken into articles. So it doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u928	The rest of the amendment was incorporated into Articles 42, 43, 44, 45.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u929	After being incorporated into the articles, it is laid down in the Rules of Procedure that each article should be voted on separately.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u930	We shall vote on this in an article. Separate.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u931	Oh, of course. It's no longer an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u932	An amendment shall be adopted, which shall be incorporated as separate articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u933	On this basis, Mr President, we must vote separately in 42, separately in 43, separately in 44 et seq.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u934	We should not vote on the amendment at all after that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u935	That's how he's come.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u936	Oh, no. It's an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u937	But that's how the articles are.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u938	It doesn't matter. It has now been embedded in the articles. We should vote on the articles separately.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u939	The amendment is being voted on together. The other articles shall be voted on together.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u940	The original plan. Since the amendment was incorporated into the articles, the amendment does not exist as an amendment. They're now articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u941	The only ones voted separately are 11, 12, 17, 19 and 34. The rest of the amendment, the other articles are voted as the piece...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u942	Mr President, I would like to mention this in the Minutes and stress it. It cannot be incorporated into separate articles and the Members shall vote as a whole. This is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure. Once it was incorporated into separate articles...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u943	If it is voted, articles will be made.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u944	They're already articles in the gut.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u945	He's already in the gut.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u946	They're already articles in the gut. Articles. Numbered.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u947	To be covered, let's get this article - article.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u948	In the previous bills, we voted for them as an amendment and then entered the articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u949	It can't be done. We need to make an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u950	Here at 42, 43, 44 and 45 are the pieces that have not been incorporated into other articles. So let's get them an article - an article to get it over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u951	The amendment No 1494 is Article 48.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u952	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u953	Article 48 is Amendment 1494/158 of the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u954	It's Article 46. Amendment No 1494.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u955	You're right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u956	Is the part of the amendment clear about Articles 42, 43, 44 and 45?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u957	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u958	Just like we voted on it before. It is incorporated as the same articles in the gut. That is what I say to you, that the amendment is incorporated as the same articles in the gut.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u959	That is right, but once it is in the form of the separate articles, it is provided for in the Rules of Procedure that each article should be voted on separately. Otherwise it would come as an amendment separately.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u960	Otherwise we should not vote on the amendment at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u961	That's right. We should not normally vote on the amendment if...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u962	If it's come as an amendment and a track has been incorporated into articles and the rest...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u963	It's not a single remnant. That's why. It's an article - an article in our gut.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u964	Yeah, it's embedded with...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u965	It's multimodal. It has many articles and it is voted as an amendment, regardless of whether it has many articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u966	There are many articles in the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u967	Article 46 says that it is Amendment No 1494/158.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u968	We are now in the JRC's parliamentary committee, which is Article 46.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u969	Article 46. That's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u970	Can we vote on this amendment? There's a record of what you're saying in the Minutes, and if there's a matter, it'll be resolved.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u971	I think it is wrong, Mr President. I would suggest that you list the parties' views on the articles, even if you think that we are voting on the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u972	Yeah, record.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u973	I would like to point out that the Commission has already taken a number of measures in this area, and that the Commission has taken a number of measures in this area.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u974	It has been recorded as the rest of the amendment that is being voted on. Based on your vote, they enter the articles. You have a different estimate for 42, different for 43 etc.Huh?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u975	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u976	Okay, as a multimodalist, though, it goes together.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u977	Oh, no. When it is voted as an amendment, not when it comes to the articles. In any case, from the point of view of the New Democracy: for Article 42 'yes', for Article 43 'yes', for Article 44 'yes' and for Article 45 'yes'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u978	Good. Is there anyone else who wants to differentiate, even for the Minutes, his vote?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u979	Yes, sir. In Article 42 ‘no’, Articles 43, 44 and 45 ‘residences’.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u980	Anyone else who wants to make a difference? It's just for the Minutes. As a vote, the one you said on the amendment has been tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u981	In Article 42 ‘Sections’, Article 43 ‘yes’, Article 44 ‘yes’, Article 45 ‘yes’.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u982	We shall conclude with your clarifications on the part of the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u983	We are always talking at 1499, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u984	Always for the rest of 1499. Do we go on? Is the amendment accepted under a general number 1494 and a special number of 158, which is, in fact, Article 46?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u985	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u986	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u987	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u988	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u989	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u990	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u991	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u992	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u993	Therefore, Amendment No 1494 and a special 158 were accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 1497 and a special number 161 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u994	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u995	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u996	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u997	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u998	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u999	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u1000	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u1001	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u1002	Therefore, Amendment No 1497 and a special 161 were accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 1498 and a special number of 162 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u1003	Mr President, that makes no sense. We're in Article 47, at 1497. The next one is the 1500 and Article 48.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u1004	We're at 1498 with a special number 162.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u1005	It's not like that, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u1006	There is no such thing as that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u1007	He's in 33.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u1008	It's 1500.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u1009	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u1010	The general number 1498 and the number 162 has entered Article 33.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u1011	So it has been voted on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u1012	It has been incorporated into Article 33 as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u1013	Yes, sir. We are also voting for it as an amendment. Does the House accept the amendment with a general number of 1498 and a special number of 162 as it stands, which is incorporated into Article 33?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u1014	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u1015	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u1016	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u1017	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u1018	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u1019	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u1020	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u1021	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u1022	The amendment of a general number 1498 and a special 162 was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of Article 33 of the draft law. Is the amendment accepted under a general number of 1500 and a special number of 164?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u1023	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u1024	Mr President, I would like to make it clear that Rule 48, right?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u1025	Yes, Mrs. Kerameau.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u1026	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u1027	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u1028	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u1029	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u1030	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u1031	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u1032	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u1033	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1500 and a special 164 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number of 1501 and a special number of 165 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u1034	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u1035	We have voted for this before, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u1036	But you are voting for the amendment at the moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u1037	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u1038	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u1039	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u1040	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u1041	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u1042	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u1043	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u1044	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1501 and a special 165 was accepted as it is majority and is part of Article 12 of the draft law. Article 12 is 1501. 1498 entered Article 33. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u1045	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u1046	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u1047	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u1048	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u1049	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u1050	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u1051	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u1052	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u1053	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. The Bill of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: "The establishment of the University of Western Attica and other provisions" was accepted in principle and in articles. We move on to vote on the bill and on the whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole? PANAGIOTIS (PANOS) SKOUROLIKOS: Yes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u1054	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u1055	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u1056	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u1057	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u1058	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u1059	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u1060	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u1061	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: ‘Institute of the University of Western Attica and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of articles and all, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u1062	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u1063	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-26-S1-commons.u1064	With the agreement of the House at 1.17 the sitting of the next Wednesday, February 28, 2018, at 12 noon, on the subject of this House's work: legislative work, in accordance with the agenda and the supplementary agenda that have been distributed.
