ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would like to make some announcements to the Department before entering the agenda. The Minister of Culture and Sport and the Ministers of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, Education, Research and Religion, Work, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Economic and Administrative Reconstruction, as well as the Deputy Minister of Finance, tabled a draft law on 7-9-2018: "The establishment of a Metropolitan Organisation of Arts Museums of Thessaloniki". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. The Member of the Association of Centres Mr.Ioannis Saridis submitted on 7-9-2018 a proposal for a law: "Modification and supplementation of Law 3226/2004 (Law 24/A/4.2.2004) "Providing legal aid to low-income citizens and other provisions" - Adjustment of criteria to the Law and enlargement of its scope". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. The Minister of Health and the Ministers for Education, Research and Religious Affairs and Finance, as well as the Deputy Minister of Health, submitted a draft law on 10-9-2018: "Following the Donation Convention between the Foundation "Common Benefits Foundation S. Niarchos" and the Greek State in order to strengthen and upgrade infrastructure in the field of health". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information: "Access to permanent residents of areas outside television coverage in Greek free-range television stations". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 10 September 2018 that the draft law should be discussed at a single meeting in principle, articles, amendments and all. Does the Department agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u2	The department agreed. Before I give the floor to the majority rapporteur, Mr Apostolos Karastasis, for 15 minutes, I would like to say that everyone you want to sign as speakers will have to come here because the system is not working online. Mr. Karanastassis has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, Minister, Deputy Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill under discussion represents in a way the physical continuation and completion of the arrangement initiated with the KHS in 2017 by the Ministers for the Interior, Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, entitled "Supported satellite access for the permanent residents of the remote areas of the country to Greek free television stations". This joint ministerial decision attempted, in fact, to resolve the problem of the lack of terrestrial digital television coverage in specific remote and nationally sensitive areas of the Prefectures of Evros, Dodecanese, Xanthi, Rhodope, Samos and Chios. As I shall mention below, the problem does not only arise in remote and nationally sensitive areas. With the present draft law therefore attempts for the first time in our country to resolve the existing problem of digital terrestrial television coverage throughout Greece. The existing problem that I mentioned is well known - I believe - to all of us. In summary, one can describe it as follows: in 2009 the transition from the terrestrial analogue television broadcast to the terrestrial digital television broadcast began gradually. The above transition was finalised in 2014. With the completion of the digital television transition to our country, around 96.2% of its total population gained access through the terrestrial digital broadcasting to Greek television stations' programmes. At the same time, the possibility of non-digital access to the domestic television product was completely excluded for the whole territory. So it stopped broadcasting on analogues. Therefore, the remaining 3.8% of the country's total population - which mainly concerns citizens living and operating in difficult and remote areas of the island and mainland Greek territory - remained without any kind of access to Greek television channels. According to official figures of the population census in 2011 from ELSTAT, the problem directly touches around 411,000 citizens, who make up 217,000 estimated households. These citizens are included outside the permanent residents of remote continental and island regions of Greece, which have specific geomorphological specificities, and residents of non-remote areas in which the same problem arises, i.e. a lack of terrestrial digital television coverage from the existing network. But let me say here, Mr President, because, in the discussions in committee, almost all the parties to be heard had a positive opinion, that it was heard by the Opposition, particularly the New Democracy, that the problem was almost solved by its Government, that we were late to regulate it, that they would regulate it better, and that - listen - listen! - it is the ERT because, as a state channel - it is in the Minutes what I am saying now - it has not been arranged to cover for its own frequencies 98% of the territory, as is the case in European state channels. Let me remind the Department and the Greek people of the events of the previous governments. It is known that a few years ago the then New Democracy and PASOK coup d'état introduced a law that defined the digital terrestrial television signal and proceeded with a competition for the appointment of a contractor. At the same time, with the shameful 'black' which he imposed on the ERT, the only public body that had both the infrastructure and the know-how to participate in the competition, he excluded it from it by clarifying the landscape in favour of the shape that created the country's large private channels at the time. We went to a competition with a contestant for pan-Hellenic frequencies and a smaller one for regionals with no contestant. Then the total-scale licence was awarded to the sole participant and we gave him a gift, as the law at the time of the case did, and the regional ones, since no one had been interested in them. In any civilised and favored country in the world this competition would of course have been declared barren. It should be noted at the time that the law was incompatible between the capacity of the television channel owner and that of the network service provider. However, the scheme in favour of which the tender was awarded was only a cooperative of channel owners, which should also lead to the annulment of the tender. Then the National Telecommunications and Post Committee was fortified behind the assumption that they are different legal persons and accepted the outcome of the tender. We are therefore talking about a'since' procedure which has led to a distorting effect, which must be raised. The result of the monopolistic situation created was the circumvention of basic provisions of the law at the time, such as geographical and population coverage of the Greek area and the coincidence of regional frequency bands with the corresponding geographical and administrative areas. Thus, instead of setting up two hundred and seventy-five emission points, the 'DIGEA', with the tolerance of the government, implemented only one hundred and fifty-six points. In the periphery, we have cases where the channels - I say for a particular area - of Central Greece do not see all of them, but can see the channels of the Peloponnese and tanapalin. In addition, the granting of the public asset of frequencies to a single provider created or favours the creation of interoperable economic, political and other interests. Therefore, there are responsibilities both on the side of the contractor and on the side of the State and in particular on the bodies which had the obligation to oversee and receive DIGEA's work, which, of course, must be sought. Reverting to the bill, I would point out that its main objective is to resolve this issue immediately and definitively by removing the existing exclusion of permanent residents from the areas outside the television coverage of the entire Greek territory from access to the programmes as a minimum to Greek free-range television channels and reducing the existing digital divide and the inequality that this creates between the citizens of the country and the geographical sections. The aim, therefore, is to complete our country's digital television transition in line with the European Union's demands and instructions. I note by way of outlines the main articles of the draft law that Article 3 defines the bodies involved in the project implementation. The clear definition of the relevant responsibilities substantially facilitates the immediate and effective implementation of the project, ensure its smooth and uninterrupted completion, and monitor both at and after the completion of the project. These bodies are the Directorate-General for Telecommunications and Post, the municipalities in the region of which are located outside the television coverage area, for what we are doing at the moment, and the Civic Service Centres, as well as the National Telecommunications and Post Commission with a back-up role and their responsibilities are identified. In particular for the Directorate-General for Telecommunications and Posts, it is foreseen that, through sampling checks, the proper exercise of the responsibilities of the project promoters and the fulfilment of the service providers' obligations and ensures the smooth financing of the project. Article 4 defines the permanent residents of areas outside television coverage as beneficiaries. Who are these beneficiaries? It should be noted that a permanent resident of a particular area is characterised by the citizen who has his principal and permanent establishment in such a way that he has become the fixed centre of his general life relations. It is certain that the Minister will also consider cases where someone shares their residence time between the urban areas and those areas which are facing the problem of reception. As regards the identification of areas outside television coverage, it is carried out and appears in the Annex to the draft law. It has proceeded through consultation, and of course the list is open, and perhaps in this case we should see, Minister, some public bodies or places where people are conspiring, such as the CFP, and the schools to which we could give the opportunity to have this digital coverage. It should be clarified that the provision of the access services of the project is due to the specific nature of the services provided per household and not per beneficiary. Article 5 sets out the categories and specifys the main obligations of providers who have the right to participate in the implementation of the project by providing beneficiaries with access to the programmes of the Greek television stations referred to. The participation of each relevant provider shall be free and equal if, of course, the provider concerned fulfils the conditions for participation and fulfils its defined obligations. The duration of the access services provided shall be eight years and may be amended by a ministerial decision. During this time period, the provider is required - and here is a question raised at the hearing of the bodies - to provide the beneficiaries of the work with the services irrespective of any change in its ownership or legal status or its location in liquidation or forced management or bankruptcy. Article 6 sets out how to obtain the services of the project, and in particular provides for the provision of a public grant of a maximum amount of EUR 110 to each beneficiary household, which can only be redeemed once by that household to a provider of its free choice from whom to obtain the abovementioned access services to the domestic television product. And so that there are no misunderstandings, I would like to clarify that the government is subsidising the equipment for the reception of free channels, whether it is from the satellite mirror, the LNB and the receivers, which exist on the providers' platforms, and not their subscription services, except, of course, those which are free of charge. All the free Greek channels and the regional channels each provider has are listed in them. For this purpose, the amount of subsidy, because this has also been mentioned, is absolutely sufficient. Article 9 provides that the relevant access services may be granted to the beneficiary by any technological means available, provided that it guarantees their reliable and qualitative provision to the end-user. What are these trustworthy and what are these ways of covering them? It is the satellite through the two platforms - these are the two platforms we are talking about, it is the 'NOVA' and it is the 'COSMOTE TV' - their terrestrial coverage, such as 'DIGEA', and the possibility of getting online coverage of those who want it. All the comments and comments made in the draft law, which had been put into public electronic consultation through OpenGov, have been taken into account. Finally, we have to say that the proposed draft gives rise to annual expenditure on the National Telecommunications and Post Commission amounting to EUR 1 million per year from the grant of the Hellenic Space Agency, which will be covered by the committee's reserve. The State budget is also caused by the public subsidy of the beneficiaries for access to the provision of services from free-range television channels. This expenditure amounts to more than EUR 24 million of VAT. It can be paid through the Public Investment Programme or by the reserve of the National Telecommunications and Post Commission. Mr President, Minister, Deputy Minister, ladies and gentlemen, television coverage throughout the country will enable citizens to participate equally and to enjoy the benefits of the services offered by television providers. The state's constitutional obligation to lift the unjust situation created against a portion of its citizens is obvious. I therefore consider it necessary to vote for this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, too. Mrs Anna-Michel Asmakopoulou, rapporteur for the New Democracy, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Minister, I see you are tweeting from the live transmission of the Prime Minister's speech to the European Parliament. I hope that Mr Tsipras, who speaks of the future of Europe, does not propose to them when they make referendums to apply the backwards or put pan-European capital control! I'm coming to the bill. I shall begin, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with three things that we agree with. Firstly, it has been demonstrated over time that the information, as one defines it, is the smallest information either today or the so-called Big Data, is a force. Dissemination of information is an essential condition for the effective functioning of democracy, forcing informed citizens and, ultimately, for establishing a genuine democracy with up-to-date and strong citizens. Secondly, we agree that the citizen's right to information is established in the Greek Constitution, namely Articles 5a and 14. It may sound self-evident, but we agree on that. The New Democracy, a party that is loyal to the values of constitutional legitimacy, supports the citizen's right to information and pluralism and opposes any attempt to create media control conditions, wherever this is the case. Thirdly, we agree that the so-called 'white areas' - for those who are following the debate on the bill for the first time, these are the areas in the territory that do not have a television signal - stemmed from the transition to terrestrial digital broadcasting and that the Greek State has an obligation to cover these areas. So, Minister, you 'violate open doors' when you ask to agree on the principle that there is equal access even to the most improper point in the State and especially to the remote parts of our country, to Greek free-range television stations. On these three points, therefore, at the outset, in order for there to be no misunderstanding, we have nothing to talk about. Our political disagreements on this matter start from the past, how and why these so-called 'white areas' emerged. Greece, as your rapporteur said, had a Community and international obligation, initially until 31/12/2012, and after an exceptional derogation until 1-11-2014, to institutionalise the transition from the outdated analogue transmission of the television programme to the improved and modern digital transmission technology. It also had to deliver the so-called digital frequency divide, this was a Memorandum of Understanding, in order to give the mobile phone companies an extra spectrum and to allow the development of broadband fast internet, 4G, etc. in remote areas. I am not going to go into details of the competition that highlighted DIGEA in February 2014, but I will mention that 18.6m euros have entered the state funds through the tender. This is the highest price in Europe for this service, namely for a terrestrial digital broadcasting network. Subsequently, in October 2014 for the 800 MHz digital dividend, an auction of EUR 381.114,000 was launched. In other words, ladies and gentlemen, as a whole, some EUR 400 million has been entered into the public funds. Coverage of a 100% television signal throughout the territory cannot be achieved for technical reasons. There's nowhere in this thing. In fact, the average population coverage in Europe is 92%. In Greece, the coverage requirement according to the ECT measurements is 96.2%. In other words, there are 3.8% white areas for which the Government of the New Democracy had, as it were, arranged by including in a Community programme total coverage for eastern Macedonia, Thrace and the islands of the North Aegean. He had arranged for total coverage, without separation if you see regional channels, if you see them if you're a permanent resident, if you see them if you drink coffee at the CFP and with EU money without charging the state budget. In fact, this file was made within seven months and all that was left to do when you took over power was to sign your predecessor, Minister, Mr. Spirtzis. Because I heard a point of order in committee saying that accession took place in January 2015, a few days before the elections, what argument is that? Are you questioning the previous government that it has been working until the last minute with a commitment to safeguarding the public interest? Because we hadn't downloaded the pencils ahead of the election so that Community funds and resources would not be lost and you could find a solution ready, is that all of a sudden? And you come back, answer the work, and after three and a half years bring in a bill to solve a problem that you found solved. As your rapporteur and many of SYRIZA's colleagues in their committees have spoken about the issue of 'DIGEA' - responsibility, he says, they must be attributed - I would remind you that Mr Spirtz had appealed against the EBRD's plenary session on this matter and this appeal by decision of the prosecutor was filed as unfounded. What responsibilities are you now discussing when this issue has been adopted? So it is enough political candy that it is all the previous ones who are to blame. At last spit it out. After three and a half years of old idealism and inability, you are boasting today that you are bringing a solution which is not only immediate and definitive, but has less coverage, higher costs and is paid by the state corps. You'll tell me now, you're boasting about this when you boast of your biggest political crusader, the license of television channels with your famous law that was judged unconstitutional by the CCT, which, instead of being completely, slow and tortured for two years now, you have been unconstitutional with ten amendments. Twelve of the fifteen articles have been amended. 400m euros entered the state corps by DIGEA and the digital dividend and you boast why? That you were forced to return EUR 85 million that you had taken as an advance, and now will you get an advance of 3.5 million this year? When we all know by amendment that in November 2017 you reduced the tax rate on television advertising to 5%? You brought us a piece of paper about how much they've invaded the public ads. To bring us a piece of paper to tell us how much they were lost from a 20% reduction in taxation to 5%, how much you would get. Of course, you did this for national channels, because regional channels, as shown by this bill, are second-class. We don't care much about regional channels. And you dare now tell us about a photographic competition of "DIGEA", you who accepted Kalogerica's pastures as a guarantee for the competition for television licenses. The four emblematic digital works announced by Mr. Tsipras have made them a management ball of the Ping Pong between your Ministry and the ETF. One day, the ESI Funds are good to make the management, the next day the project management returns to the Ministry. Why is that? You have issued a notice on the Intelligent Agriculture project in public consultation and the stakeholders say it excludes dozens of Greek enterprises involved in the subject. And I read: "The notice is photographic to the point where the few trained can understand it." And that's not what I'm saying, Minister. It is not even said by the stakeholders, who say that there is a selfishness in the business interests that move around. That's what SYRIZA's agricultural sector says. That's what he says. And for the "Barcode" project in the press - another flagship project - the board of the ESIB has commissioned - I see - to the "DIAGY" - to a special panel of experts to examine whether the project specifications are photographic, since there is only one particular company in the market that has the specific "Barcode" scanning device and no one else can go down. He, by the way, rapporteur, is a contest in which there is only one interested party, such as ‘DIGEA’. But he is not photographic and scandalous - for God's sake! - because he's yours. As far as the media are concerned, your objective has always been one and is still one, media control. That was the plan, that's it now. Moreover, the constitutional right of citizens to have proper information does not apply to those who choose to see channels that do not transmit information as you think should be transmitted. For example, SKAY. SKAY's on leave, but you're not going, because you're cutting yourself off for the fullness of citizens' information. So, for the flagship projects, for which we will have the opportunity to discuss parliamentary control, let us remember the phrase of Mr Krimiz who said leaving NASA, 'follow the money'. And by the way, we obviously do not vote on Article 12, which gives EUR 1 million a year to "Greek NASA" to ELDO for the expenses of members who serve. So for a start, we start with the 1 million euros. To conclude, Mr President, we obviously agree with the legislative initiative to cover the 'white areas', because this is a real problem, which many of us of the New Democracy's chosen colleagues have shown. We are also voting on'representations' at the outset. Why? Because we have serious doubts and serious objections to the effectiveness of the solution you are proposing. And I encode our objections: the source of funding is the first. The source of funding should be Community funds, not the public investment programme, Minister. And not to tell us that there are no other solutions or more economic solutions, even if you want to use the public investment programme or state money, did you consider the case where it could be made available by the State to DIGEA by satellite from the one that HELLAS SAT has free of charge for satellite transmission of a television signal? In the face of this provision, the 'DIGEA' could be given free access - a key, that is - to citizens who do not have free access. And in that case, even if you wanted to subsidize the equipment, that would be much cheaper. More importantly, however, we would have had full and lasting service coverage for all. Second objection is the adequacy and involvement of providers. Is it ensured that suppliers are involved, Minister? And the services that will offer how long will they finally have? Will they be enough? The providers didn't come to the operators' hearing. I read the letter from the 'COSMOTE' sent against their presence at the hearing. There it says: ‘The public grant should not be less than the cost of the provision of services.’ Meaning? I think it's an elegant way of saying that with this money they don't come out to provide this service for eight years. That's what I read. 'NOVA' and 'FORTHNET' have not come and have not brought in a memo. You couldn't have spoken with them. Don't you know what they're going to do? They think they can with this coupon cover services for eight years? I don't know, Minister. They didn't come to the board hearing. But you, Minister, may not have spoken with them. You'll know more than that. If you have noble kindness, enlighten us about the intentions of 'NOVA'. Informality. Not all channels participate, only regionals, on the platform. Isn't that right? Of course, it is only for permanent residents. So regional channels are the poor relatives. Those who have money to be promoted by the providers have been informed. For the rest, it's okay. Of course, everyone pays the advertising tax without a discount, but only permanent residents are entitled to information, not two - three months in the summer. But everyone pays the fee for the ERT. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Mr President, with your tolerance, I would like to make a brief reference to the articles for a moment. With regard to Article 11, Minister, I do not feel that we have received a sufficient explanation of why the Ministry is taking over the supervision of the MEN. By the way, I would like to ask you if you want to expand. For the metropolitan fibre optic networks, what is the amount that the state pays for the maintenance of the network, on the basis of its contract between OTE and the Ministry? With regard to Article 12, which is the subsidy to the ELDE, we are obviously voting against it. With regard to Article 15, to abolish the identity of publishers, what can I say to you? All I can say here is that I take it as a petty demonstration of political power. You brought an amendment last night. First of all, what are these terrain? There's in it a piece of audiovisual, which is almost a new bill. We have no objections. We are positive about this bill, when you bring it and we have no objection to discussing in detail how it can be improved, because it is very important for the country. Do not put it into action now. Bring it to the debate, since you're actually legislating again. But you can collect this with a shocking article, which has to do with the complete photographic transfer or secondment to the press offices abroad. There's no way it's photographic! To understand the world, those who are now serving abroad, while they are taking fifteen molecules to speak a foreign language, are now taking eight. It's no longer important to speak a foreign language to go abroad. When they had doctors, they got four molecules, now they get two. And what's going on? Almost double the molecules they get for the interview. Why is that? To favor yours. Are you bringing this along with the reinforcement of audiovisual? So you can tell us what? That we voted for one and didn't vote for the other? What are these things? Is that a serious piece of legislation? As far as the rest of the articles are concerned, we shall be placed by our vote. In conclusion - and I thank you for your tolerance, Mr President - this is a bill of law, but it is not doing so. You share coupons from ideoscopy and inability. With your well-known irresponsibleness, you are completely unresponsible for the effectiveness of this purely electoral provision. You don't care about regional channels. You don't care about citizens being fully informed, but you know that citizens don't expect you to be informed anymore. They are now aware and will also inform you by voting on the poll. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, too. Mr Gregorakos, rapporteur for the Democratic Alliance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u7	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we were called on to discuss the bill of the Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information on access for permanent residents to areas outside television coverage at Greek free-range television stations. The fact is that in the past few years, in my prefecture, we have had huge problems. I think this bill is in the right direction. In studying the bill, however, one should see that the ministry's political leadership or those who wrote the bill should not have much to do with reality. I say this because no matter how hard I have tried, I have not seen it. The only thing that arises from this draft law is that many of his articles have to do with customer logic. In other words, they are attempting through his articles once again to make scriptures. Like all the policies of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, it has a unique concern to get the benefit of some citizens, promising small rewards, especially in the region. I will come back to the bill soon, because I would now like to comment on the news. Colleagues of the Couple, SYRIZA - ANELs have completed about three and a half years at the helm of power. Like every government, yours has left its print in the country, in society and in the economy. Your print is completely negative. As much as you try to make it look good, all you will achieve is to keep your eyes on the conscience of the Greek citizens. Do you really think about what you can say to your voters - let the voters of the other parties - about the work you have done? You know the memorials did not bring the crisis, but you insist on talking about the memorials. You've been doing it for many years and you haven't corrected it yet. You have not accepted, in other words you yourself, that the very opposite happened, that is, that the crisis brought the memos. However, you still talk about what you said to the Greek people at the time and insist on mocking Greek citizens, who may not be aware of it yet. No serious person can argue that what happened in post-multiple years was all right and perfect. I have repeatedly stressed this. We didn't make it all right, we made a lot of mistakes, so the people brought us where they brought us. I'm talking specifically about my party. There have been distortions, inconsistencies, inconsistencies and, of course, there have been problems of deterioration and corruption. However, ladies and gentlemen, after 1974 Greece managed to belong to the thirty richest countries in the world. This fact is undeniable. No one can question it. After all, in these years we have made the great leap to enter the EEC with the endless insistence of Constantine Karamanlis. Andreas Papandreou then sealed the end of an abnormal multi-year postmortem period. The division of the Greeks into "mixtures" and "national-minded" became a past. Don't go on with it, i.e. whoever you don't like is far-right. The suppressive social state was founded after 1981, with its shortcomings, its condolences, etc. The follow-up is known. Our country did what former Prime Minister Costas Karamanlis had called "a dream of summer night". She entered EMU with her sword, with Kostas Simitis' sound and effective guidance. Historical events are not erased, not distorted, are not isolated. How we have come to the crisis, you all know it, but you do not confess it. The worst part, however, is that you deliberately cover it for reasons of micropolitical feasibility. You of SYRIZA, who highlight the values and principles of the Left, refuse to blame those who have them. Of course, your refusal is in exchange for the underground support of a portion of the new "Karmanlic" in your Government. On the other hand, Mr Kammenos said today that he represents 'Carmanism'. That was his statement today. And Mrs Papakostas' notorious Ministership is 'all the money'. And as far as Marilissa is concerned, when she went to a minister, she closed the door and now they're both sitting on the same table! How time changes! Listen, Minister, dignity is a matter of strict staff. Nothing else. That is my answer to this lady's question. So we have the infamous Ministership of the lady who then called the Minister an amoralist, and now you have her and you are talking with her at the same ministerial table. I've learned something on the left. There is a need for historical memory. However, you have made this memory "a haircut". What should I first remember? Your infamous co-operation with Kammenos in order to button your presence in power? The civilian tradition and all that happened yesterday in Thessaloniki? Does it not bother you that seven to eight MPs and ANELs have been subjugated? Only one or two have been left here in the parliamentary group. This sympathy with the populist nationalist extreme right is dictated by some political authorities? I don't think so. It is only clearly inspired by a political morality which at least the Left did not have in the past years. Ladies and gentlemen, how a populist nationalist group took over the country is also known. With a gun, the lie was able to convince you of an important portion of the voters. And what you didn't say! You said you would abolish the memorandum with a law. You said that HNVIA doesn't change, but it's abolished. You said you would not grant the national wealth to the loan sharks. But you come and bind Greece a hundred years, twenty-five billion state-owned property if we can't pay the one dose. You've given it all. Does it bother you to see you? The struggle of memory with oblivion, Milan Kouder said many years ago, is unknown and it is a struggle for power. It now seems clear that your bourgia for power is your real and unique "is". The bad news, however, is that this country has regressed upon the SYRIZA - ANEL government. The acquis of sacrifices that we had achieved by 2014 spurred your furious agony to take over the country's rulership. Remember that today it was revealed that the president and Vice-President of the National Bank of Greece of EUR 700,000, when Mr Kurublis came out and said that the Venizelos car would be auctioned? That's what you said, isn't it? That's all. You're hugging them. The tragic semester of your first term of office has ceased to support it even by the Prime Minister himself, choosing the well-known practice of the garger. What was next is not proved by the tactics 'I make the lie true', 'I do the damn thing whenever I want'. Since you are still saying left-wing, then, to remind you of Mao Chetung's famous phrase that the act is the only criterion of truth. From deeds and truth you have nothing to do with it. Everything else is the distortion of reality, flaming things and primarily communication pirates. The most recent example is the speech and interview of the Prime Minister in Thessaloniki. Knowing that his government has suffered an unprecedented political and social suffocation, all he seeks is to cultivate his own virtual reality. The appreciation for his speech and the answers he gave at the press conference has been made by the Greek people. No serious citizen adopts the Prime Minister's over-represented complacency, as was done with your celebrations of the so-called end of the memorials. All polls record a 70% to 75% that they think our country still remains at the highest level of the memoranda. After all, yesterday's statements of the top factors of the lenders confirm it. As Klaus Regling says, without reform, debt relief does not apply. No matter what benefits, then, you give the unfavourable climate that has been recorded for the Tsipras - Kammenos government is not going to change. On the other hand, I have lived as a Member of the European Parliament. No matter what benefits we had in the election, no one listened to us. The deterioration of political things has gone its way. The elections, whenever they are held, will seal the end of the most unresolved, incompetent and inadequate government that has been in place since 1974. I'm coming back to the bill, wanting to point out this. As my colleague, who was in the committees during the joint meetings, has made clear, of course, the draft law is positive because he is seeking to resolve the problem of about 4% of the people in the country, i.e. some 400,000 people today lacking access to television coverage for national television stations. In the Laconia Prefecture there are villages that really did not have access to ERT1, ERT2, ERT3, national channels. So imagine what's going on with the private. This problem must be resolved because it is about equality towards Greek citizens and the provision of equal rights for access to information and entertainment. However, this draft law does not solve any real problems. Although it presents all the necessary steps set out by the bodies responsible for carrying out a project, such as the beneficiaries who are privately-owned, permanent residents of the areas identified in the Annex, the process that is being followed, the deadlines and all the rest are unclear and no one knows how they will be implemented. The Ministry entrusts private individuals with its own obligation to cover the entire Greek territory with a television signal. The only essential thing that the Ministry does, in accordance with Article 6 of the draft law, is to grant a small amount of EUR 110 - and even one-off - those who do not have a badge to find and pay for their own service. We are well aware that the logic of benefits is your favorite voting method. But is it the safest and most economical option for this case, and especially for those people who have no television coverage to get EUR 110? We asked you, as a Democratic Participation, during the debate on the bill: How do you certify that beneficiaries will receive the EUR 110 bonus will be contacted with the private provider? So, what are the guarantees of the bill which show us that this project will eventually be carried out? How will you ensure that the project is carried out in full so that the Greek people's money is not lost? How will there be no doubt that the project will have been implemented and will have an effective participation by both companies, or at least by one provider? We have not received a clear answer, Minister. We're waiting for her. Ladies and gentlemen of the Collapse, in Chapter II of the bill of other arrangements you follow your favorite tactics. You are bringing further regulations of a substantive nature without having been consulted. Article 11 is therefore entrusted to the Secretariat-General for Telecommunications and Posts, the oversight, management, maintenance, exploitation and exploitation of metropolitan fibre networks belonging to the LAGs and financed from national and Union resources. Of course, the General Secretariat may have supervisory control. But why should it be transferred to the specific responsibilities of the TAs and the General Secretariat? Why does this thing have to be done? Can't anyone else keep that? Why should we go to local authorities? Article 12 also defines the amount of EUR 1 million as an annual grant by the Hellenic Space Agency from the reserve of the National Telecommunications Commission after a return to the State budget of the planned amount of the committee’s national result and to cover the operational and development needs of the Agency. As we have placed in committee, in the light of the latest revelations on the ELDE from the past by President Krimizis, in Article 12(2) we consider this subsidy to be outrageous. We also consider that it is not appropriate to amend the amount by means of a ministerial decision. Article 13 provides for the possibility of a staff member from the Ministry of Digital Policy with a spouse or a associate serving in the European Union by secondment. But why should this apply only to the employees of this ministry? Aren't there other employees in other ministries with the same problems? Why don't you just generalize it, Minister, and you only bring it for your own Ministry? This provision is photographic, as is photographic and the provision for the amendment you bring, which we will not vote on, contrary to the two amendments of the Ministry of Education, which we shall vote on. Finally, pursuant to Article 15, Article 9 of Law 1798/1951 is repealed, according to which members of the Association of Newspaper Owners may be provided with a special identity, giving them the rights granted to members of the Athens Newspapers' Association. We believe that such a provision may cause some problems to the already existing members of this category. Ladies and gentlemen, we will vote for this bill in principle and reserve the articles in the special debate that will take place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, too. Now Mr. Ilioopoulos has the floor from Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. I wish all Greeks a good season, because they will unfortunately have to go down the street many times to claim self-evident. In other countries people come down on various issues. In Greece you brought together all the Greeks to protest for the self-evident fact that Macedonia is Greek. You see it every day that the Greeks tell you in every way that they will not let you sell our Macedonia. Today the President of Parliament went and made a manifest statement - so I would like to begin - saying: 'We are not giving any language. Do you see any Macedonian speaking in Greece? I am surprised that Mr Voutsis, representing the Greeks, the Greeks - say as you wish - Members of the Greek Parliament. Because you can't have a national conscience and say we don't grant the language because there are no Macedonians. Clearly the Macedonians speak Greek, but there is no Macedonian language belonging to the Gypsies, who are trying to get us what they can. You see all foreign forces are trying in every way...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u10	Are these characterisations for the Greek Parliament?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u11	What are you talking about, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u12	For the ‘liquid...’.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u13	All right, the Skopje.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u14	Does the gentleman in the picture represent you at the rally, too?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u15	What picture, Mr. President? I don't know who you mean.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u16	She's the one who's known.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u17	I was represented by the Greeks who held Greek flags and you were represented by the police repression of the children, the old ones with infinite chemicals that you dropped in the past few days. I was represented by the child who cried from the tear gas and wore the Greek flag on the back. If you say anything about this photograph, Mr President, I am absolutely represented by his grandmother wiped his eyes off. This picture I bring to my mind and my hair rises. I don't know what picture you're talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u18	You know well what I'm saying. You know very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u19	I don't know about any photographs other than the kid crying from tear gas and wearing the Greek flag on the back.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u20	Go ahead, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u21	Mr President, I would like you to tell us what he meant, since you are chairing today, Mr Voutsis. Tell us clearly why he says they're not granted...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u22	Mr. Voutsis said that for those who know Greek.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u23	We don't give language, he says...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u24	Others cannot cover them, those who do not know Greek. Go ahead, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u25	I don't understand what you're saying. Mr. Voutsis said we don't have a language, and the Skopje celebrate because the Macedonian people took as a language. Are there any Macedonian? Is it Macedonian what the Skopje are talking about, Mr President? Have you heard of them? Can you understand them? If you were from northern Greece, if you were Macedonian, could you understand what the Skopje say? Have you heard a Skopje dialogue? Clearly they speak a Slavic language, a receipt of a Slavic language, which has nothing to do with Greeks. And that is why they celebrate that they have forged Macedonian language, as they say they have taken Macedonian nationality, citizenship. Of course, you are in favour of all this and that is why you have brought this agreement to the Greek Parliament. Let's hope the Skopje will save the pretexts, that's where we've arrived, and they'll vote against. We don't expect anything better from you. They may save the Skopje themselves and deny this agreement. We are talking about channels and of course we would also like to catch Greek channels, not Greek-speaking broadcasters throughout Greece, so that the Greeks are properly informed and entertained. But what channels are we talking about today? The channels that from morning till night play unmistakably Turkish serials to sound as we've been imposed by Sultan Erdogan, the Turkish language in every house from morning to night? The channels that have swept through the third political power of our country, and isn't the answer to the muds and lies against the third political force you've been firing us from morning to night? Can we talk about the ERT, which when Nikos Michaloliacos, the leader of the third political force, goes to talk, at that time, the employees, the pieces of the ERT are on strike, to fade the Golden Dawn and Nikos Michaliakos? What channels are we talking about? For the channels that have been in common for so many years throughout Greece that whoever was licensed to have a full-scale station, along with him, was getting a gift and public works? Or don't you all know that in here? Or do you do what you live in another country and that they have not been in front of you, from all the Members of Parliament, these images? In these channels, then, a color worthy of them, the black, not playing in half a million more Greeks. Clearly, of course, we are in favour of these four hundred thousand Greeks with a national government of Golden Dawn being properly informed, properly recreationed and having all the constitutionally entitled to Greek citizens, just like everyone else in the rest of the country. Of course, the JRC has set a raisin on "SKAI". These are the anti-capitalists yours, the Left. From morning to night you play on pimp canals, as you were saying. They have not cut any of you by the so-called 'democratic', the so-called 'constitutional' arch. You have not been excluded, because you are all serving together, whether on the right or on the left - within too many introductorys - their interests. Of course we have a very big difference with you. Our interests do not coincide with those of the Canadian authorities. This is our difference and that of us you will only hear truths and they will not hear half the truth, because they want to manipulate the Greek people. We will be totally opposed to continuing to do so. You said you would abolish the MATs and disarm the Greek Police. Instead, you've equipped it above, you've made it lobster and you've made it beat innocent Greeks, beating old people who hold the Greek flag. Because you hate the Greek flag, because you hate every national, you also have the institutions of the state to defend you. To get Mr. Tsipras out, the folklore, this populous Prime Minister of Greece, who went up to Thessaloniki with so many benefits and brought everything to everyone! Why doesn't he come out and say it? Did he have to go to "Belidium"? He could go to the White Tower and contact Greek citizens immediately after giving them so many things. Why? Why not love a man who gives them so many benefits, so many allowances? It could do so, as could you, Mr President. Everyone can come out and contact them immediately, not behind MAT-sizes, not behind cages. Have you ever seen, Mr President, so many cages prolonged in Thessaloniki make an iron barrier so that the Greek citizen does not express his democratic sympathy to the Prime Minister of the country? We've never seen them before. I will briefly comment on the topical and urgent subjects of major importance, because there are too many things going on. When you were opposition, you wanted to kick the troika back then. After you made it "subjects". You wanted to get her out of the ministries. You took her to Hilton. Now, however, we hear that you will take it, Mr. Minister, from Hilton and take it back to the State General Accountancy Office. You're going to put her back in the Ministries, you guys who would have kicked out the institutions, the troika, as you want to say. They were supposed to leave on August 20th, but they go even deeper into the Greek state. The Prime Minister of the country was proclaiming at the Thessaloniki Fair and, directly, after two days, the cords of the international system came to check on you, to see if you're good kids! In Sweden, of course, the following day the Swede patriots showed the way, said: 'No more!'. "That's all! You have filled Islamics throughout Europe." Europe must remain Christian, remain faithful to the institutions of its homeland, family and religion. That's what every country shows. In the last one, one and a half years, where elections are held, European patriots stand up and are already approaching all countries - such as, a good time, in Greece - 20%. This means that the European people are awakening. You have hit the reflexes of all European patriots with all that you have done with globalisation. You have filled Europe with Islamists and the exchange they give you for this hospitality is to go blown up in schools, go blown up in subway! This is their 'thank you'! It's always them. They want to come and salt Europe. They do not want to live in a Europe as it was. They want to make Europe Africa and Asia. We won't allow them. This is Europe. Here we have other values. This is where we believe in Christianity. This is where we believe in the family. The channels - since the bill is relevant - from morning to night and the family and Christianity run through them, humiliate them. From morning to night, they talk to us about homosexuals, about children's adoptions of homosexual couples. All this is supported, all this is politically correct according to you. For us, it's not, we want the family as we knew it. We've been through the relevant bills. So these channels that promote all these abnormalities of nature, we are not going to tolerate them, accept them, let alone extend them. But also in the substance of the bill, you give 110 euros, an essentially 'grassiki'. And, of course, that goes well - it doesn't seem - because the other one says 'all right, 110 euros is'. But that's not the way it is. It's 110 euros that, if they get together, they make us 24 million euros. And to put them down, why doesn't the state give less money so that they can put transponders everywhere throughout Greece so that these people can serve? And again, not for these channels, but for the next channels, which will be broadcast by national government. ‘DIGEA’ was promised to put three hundred and fifty-six transponders. Finally, with PASOK and New Democracy governments in 2012, he put exactly half of them. They were not interested in serving the Greek public, they were interested in the profit, as each company was interested in. And I'm going to end with a revulsion from yesterday's interview with Tsipras, who said the insurance problem would solve the death of the old people. He was so cynical. He chewed his words a little. He couldn't say the way he was thinking about it, he couldn't tell it the way he was getting out of it. He got his words a little chewed up, but he said it: 'the personal difference in pensions and the survival of the insurance company will come when our fellow people, who are over seventy years old, die'. You are not ashamed, and you are not ashamed, because your ideology and the Left's idealism, which hides infinite evil for the fellowman, that's what he tells you. These teach you so many years in the "universities" of the CNC and in all the party organs that you have all been through. No, we won't be as bad as Tsipras to wish your death. To God! We say that when you have disappeared from the political system, the whole "gang", which has plunged the country over the last forty-five years - because you are the same gang, nothing changes but your names - when you leave the scene, when you are politically finished, then our homeland can be resurrected, resurrected and finally lifted the Golden Dawn of Hellenism.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u26	Because of an exceptional obligation, Mr Papachristopoulos will be given priority because he has to leave. Come on, Mr. Papachristopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Another tangible example of what is going to mean false news and how it reproduces is this abhorrence claimed by the previous speaker, that the Prime Minister meant the natural death of some to be solved. No relationship with each other. Those of us who were present in this speech have another impression. It's a tangible proof of real distortion of reality. Perhaps I am not the most appropriate one to explain this, but I would like to say this: at a time when the objectives can clearly be reached, that is, the surplus is 3.5%, it is normal - that the Prime Minister said - not to have to cut pensions and negotiate this with creditors. This was falsified by the sites and their willing expressions, that the Prime Minister meant the natural extermination of pensioners. I don't want to use acute expressions. I stop here, and I think the Minister will tell you himself. I would like to comment on why I was in Thessaloniki and because there was no order, I was not running from where I lived to go to "Belgium", I passed almost all the gatherings. I went through the anarchists in Egnatia, I had passed before GSEE, and then I had to go down. It would be first news if there were more than fifteen thousand people. There wasn't. It wasn't first news. Some people invoked old pictures. However, they did not come out because they were discovered and the subject was "drinked". The people who were there protesting had been devastated. I respectfully say that some might want to go to this event and I respect it. With what happened, it was impossible for them to go. I think that this story has an end date and some people have already understood it, and that is why they did not'reach it up'. I'm stopping here. I'm coming to the bill. I have lived in close proximity to all the days of this government's efforts to build a new PSE. I was present from the first to the last day. How much rabies! At first there was a good intention. I remind you of the facts. It was when the New Democracy didn't have a Chief, and we respected it. They said: "Children, elect Chief and then go to the PSE." No objections. After the Chief was elected, the line changed and we had a lyric reaction not to become PSE. Can someone answer us for what? So he's reasonable to answer us, why, you guys, you didn't want to be an PSE? Do you want me to remind you of what obstacles you put every day, not all parties, but at least the opposition officer's party? I also want to refresh someone's memory about what happened to the famous Florence Institute. What was that institute saying? "Children, they don't fit more than four to five permits." What did we hear? I have it in front of me, and I have it in front of me, and what the MPs said. I don't want to scratch wounds. What diversions they were saying, what fascism they were saying, what incredible things we heard about selfishness. That's what the Institute of Florence said. Four out of five, he said. What were you talking about? Do You Remember? I have all the names ahead, because I was in committee and I have the flaw in being very diligent and keeping all the notes. Democratisation, etc. Another thing: 'Good as it has happened' - says - 'This competition is how it works'. How would we know the price and how that price was decided? I would like to remind you, for some who have a weak memory, that in 2010 a unanimous decision of the Council of State says: 'Lords, you are illegal. Finish with this story." These people cannot be released without permission for so many decades. Unanimous decision of the Council of State. For us whacks - forgive me the expression - the first thing you have to do is pick an ERR. It couldn't. Who was blocking and why? Are you going to answer us? Who was in the way? We had been informed for twenty thousand years, where Psycharis did not even speak with ministers. He was not accepted to speak with ministers, the one taking loans as he wanted, as many others did. I don't want to scratch wounds. What prevented you from doing what the unanimous decision of the Council of State told you? There was another decision, therefore - we also lived - that annulled the competition, because the competition could not have been made by the Secretariat-General, Mr Cretsos, but had to be made by the PSE. How much more respect can someone show? He respected this decision. We can do it to her, but no one thought that the justice decision should not be applied. Applied. It's off, the contest's off. Some triumphed then. But the government insisted on a thousand obstacles that you put on. The EPP was elected and the president of the EPP was proposed by you. How much more democracy, how much more transparency did we hear about diversions? Last week I was happy to see the Minister bring the draft law forward. He wants virtue and boldness, Calvos said freedom. I say that freedom and democracy want virtue, bold and endurance. I add the word endurance, the zealous endurance. Did that law annulled? Yeah. How did we find out what the price would be? We heard 70,000,000 hits and 76,000. How would we know that? You know what you were saying? 'No need for permits'. I have them here in front of me. Others said they needed twelve, thirteen, fifteen permits. Ares, berries, pine nuts, to say it like that. And the reality came and landed you in what the government said from the beginning. Four to five licenses. An empty's gone. Both of those who got permission, because they are four hundred workers armored with all their work rights, may not be able to find them and they want to cooperate. No objections. Who's justified? Who's the worst government? The guy who took 150 million? Another inaccuracy. He has collected 150 million of the frequency tax, which has been legislated for many years. What prevented you from taking it too? Who prevented you from getting at least this tax? They had to go through 2010, which was legislated, so many years to get the useless government - you don't say it? - The one who does so much damage. They are obligated and you know that they will give EUR 35,000,000 to each one in a decade's depth. No objections. The 3,500,000 euros must be provided soon. If they don't give it, you know it very well, their license is withdrawn. It is simply things that apply throughout the European Union except for a country called Greece. Are there many people who wonder about the word regularity and say what is it that you're telling us? Yeah, that's what we say, regularity. For frequency tax, too, regardless of the price of licences, they pay. Do you know how much the Greek State has lost from this strange tolerance of yours? Half a billion, so we can hear it. And whoever objects to telling us with numbers. Half a billion has been lost. You could have collected it. Why? For you to have directional information, to have the famous false news, like the one we saw recently with the death of the great director, Gabras, like the ones we see from those who humiliated the dean of CEDEFOP. The same people who took them from CEDEFOP and no one explained why they took them and who didn't take any money after 2015, are the same people who fight with rabies this government today. They're the same. They're the same. I do not, however, equalise and welcome the fact that, in the first place, I do not think there should be a Greek Member who disagrees that we should also cover these four hundred thousand. I think there's more of them, because it's not just the rough areas, it's areas like a hill that works and the other one doesn't work. That is where I am not criticising you, and 96% I welcome it. I'm not criticising you about that. But shouldn't it be covered that the remaining 3.8%? Was it or wasn't the DIGEA competition? Was it or wasn't it your crime to close ERT? Yes or no? Tell us! If you have the courage to say: 'Yes, I did, and I had to.' You don't talk, because people will listen to you and listen to you for a long time. But I have some objections and I want to say them. The National Broadcasting Council exists. It'll have to work. I want to remind you of an incident that older people might remember. Bobbie Battista was a famous CNN journalist. Once, then, in an interview he had in the Gulf War of Father Bush, he said a mistake, a false news. He apologized the next day to all the tons. Disappeared from ‘CNN’. He never showed up again. We all wondered how this great journalist doesn't exist. Do we intend, Minister, in this part, to be fair? I say this once again: no censorship. There's a way to make a tough opposition, but not a lie, not inaccurate, not overreacting. Shouldn't the reporter take responsibility for what he says? Not only resignation, not redundancies, nothing happened here, but not even an apology, even fake. I have more than forty false news in front of me lately. I don't have time. There's a lot of them. I want to believe in this step, where after August one of the first bills in the period after the memorials, which no one triumphantly triumphed, because we all know and are landed that a new story begins. It was a small first step, the Prime Minister's announcements. For God's sake! No one said all the problems were solved. I, for example, may not say anything to you - I was pleased to hear that three thousand people will be hired for the 'Help at home' programme. I've been asking for it for decades. It was nice to hear about the four thousand five hundred special school recruitments. Is the word'social state' in your mind? Do you know what it is? That's a solid proof! I shall mention two more examples. What was that thing about children's hunger wages under twenty-five years old? What's the point? Somebody explain it to us. For those you don't know, I'm telling you that the average age of Bill Gates' chef manager is twenty-six years old. Those people were deterring them. You were kicking them out. And it comes - I did not say that it was solved, but there is a small, first step - both for their contributions and, above all, for their wages. Where and where? What are they, by the way? With regard to the collective bargaining you have forgotten, everyone knows that with this story, all employees' wages go up. Yeah, it's a development measure. When the other can't eat, the whole market is sinking. The whole world knows. Finally, I wanted to say that it was very modest for the Prime Minister on the question of pensions. You invested there. I remember Kostis Hatzidakis who was ready to cry in this Chamber when Moscovisi from this Step let it be understood that we are talking about it. "What do you say? Here is in our programme, it's voted." That's what he said. What did you bet to survive on? In the bankruptcy of the Greek citizens? Well, you're wrong, you're investing. It's a big mistake. The Prime Minister - and he does well - and the ministers must respect what they sign up to. Explain that our main target is 3.5%. When the IMF imposed this on us, it wasn't sure we'd catch it. We'll prove we get it. I am right, then, to say from this step forward - I have done so months ago - and let me say that not even half of the EUR retired will be cut off. Put it right in your mind. It was wrong your last dismissal or rather your last one. Because your last one was the Macedonians who were going down to Thessaloniki. You've lost both. I'm sorry about the tension. Thanks for listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, too. Synthrakis has the floor from the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. The main part of the draft law, the first ten articles in the first chapter, relates to provisions regarding the provision of a digital television mark for residents of the regions...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u30	Mr. Symphony, I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u31	Wait a minute, Mr. Synergy. Here you go, Mr. Papachristopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, I have to go to an unpleasant obligation and I would like to ask the President if I can vote now, because I will leave. I have to go to a funeral, which has even become a headline for the "THE PAYMENTS". Do I have that possibility? Can I vote in principle and on articles and leave? I am voting 'yes' in principle, on articles and amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u33	There can be no vote, simply intent. Can't someone else come from your party?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u34	There's no one else. It's just me in the precinct. Costas Zouraris operates. I've replaced him, and I'm glad to replace him.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u35	But it can't be.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u36	My maximum limit is 12.15 ́. The funeral is in Kiato and it's just an hour and twenty-five minutes to get there. That is why I apologise. I never put my personal things on, but it's no different.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u37	See if there's anyone else.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u38	Can the Bureau say at the time of the vote...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u39	Good, good, Mr. Papachristopoulos. Your vote will be taken into account. Go on, Mr. Synhonaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u40	I return to the draft law which the main part of it concerns provisions on the provision of a television digital signal for the permanent residents of the regions, which is currently out of digital television coverage. They are the so-called 'white areas'. The question of whether all residents of the country should have digital television coverage, without exception, and all geographical areas of the island and mainland Greece, there is no one to answer positively. It is something that should already have been done. If this draft law were to serve this purpose, i.e. the implementation of the project by financing and exploiting the infrastructure solely with the responsibility of the State, then the JRC would have no objection to voting in favour of it. The final objective, however, is not that. The Government seeks 'with one forum of two birds'. Under the pretext of obtaining a television signal to the permanent residents of difficult areas, who have until now been out of television coverage, it turns the need for an opportunity for business groups to expand their business, to get their profits in warm state money, coming from hard taxpayers. The lure of this arrangement is a public one-off grant, up to a maximum of EUR 110 per beneficiary for eight years. This is a favorable regulation for private companies by expanding their clientele, in fact by engaging in the implementation of the work of the municipalities and civil service centres, by turning them into partners and processors of the interests of private companies. In our view, this is a choice reflecting the Government's commitment to the European Union strategy and the pursuit of business groups to ensure their competitiveness and unfeasible profitability, the creation of a favourable investment climate to the detriment of the people's interests. For this reason, the JRC will vote'residents' in the draft law. In the meantime, there are several questions about how to ensure more efficient and surely transfer of a television signal to all residents, to all geographical areas of the country, without any limitations and additional charges on the beneficiaries since they leave state responsibility. Let me remind you, apart from digital television - and now that we are talking about it - it is a quite large part of the country's population in several areas and not just 3.8% of the population or the four hundred and ten thousand inhabitants mentioned in the draft law. But what questions do they need? The government in the draft law refers everything to ministerial decisions. Is it sufficient for a single sum of EUR 110 to meet the need of residents for a television signal? We say no. It is a very small part of the total cost of providing a signal from the experience there exists. Secondly, the provision of the one-off amount of EUR 110 has been in force for eight years. Why? How will it ensure the continued and uninterrupted provision of a signal to the beneficiaries? What the draft Constitutional Rights Act says, why should it have a limited duration of eight years and not be continuous and uninterrupted? Thirdly, the suppliers' companies - as far as we know - do not all have the same single package or say otherwise no company has a complete package. Each has a different package of services, promotional programs, and differentiating costs. Who ensures that the beneficiaries do not fall victim to the exploitation of the companies through alleged offers - packages that hide traps. Contracts to a provider are not free packages to change at the request of the customer without consequences. Who protects the residents from companies, which, on the basis of profits, will seek to close contracts that require additional programmes, football, cinema and so forth, thereby increasing costs? Point 5 of Article 5 states that ‘project providers may offer beneficiaries free of charge or for payment of a clearly defined amount of additional or additional services other than services’. What does he actually tell us? It tells us that 110 euros are a single part of the cost of the services that companies are required to provide - from there on, the amount will be paid by the beneficiaries - while at the end of the eight-year period, although not amended by the Minister's decision, the companies will reasonably have secured and bound their customers, so also their profits. In addition, there are many parameters for which the draft law does not mention anything. Why is only the permanent residents of the regions identified in the draft law as beneficiaries because of private relations with the region, as the draft law says, outside television coverage? The Minister's answer didn't cover us that we'll see it in the future. For example, the deputy instructor whose policies have forced him to wander across Greece, for example in the Security Body, the military personnel who are shifting to various parts of the country, how will they have the right to direct access to television receivers and at what cost? There are, of course, also military guards, hospitals, other public spaces. Someone who has a holiday home or a home and visits it in the summer, Christmas or Easter in one of the areas that has no signal, does he not have any private connection with this area? Aren't you entitled to a grant for the provision of a television signal? We say that all these categories of fellow citizens should be included in the beneficiaries. But what about the old facilities, the transponders that have expired their use? What is the new technology to be selected? Who's going to choose her and why? Who is the debtor who has to carry the signal? Who will make the installation of the new machines and their choice? Who's gonna do the maintenance? Who's taking over the installation? Do there have to be specific permits? Who's paying her? In what plot? For all of this - how they will be, by whom, who pays the costs, what is the final cost for the beneficiary - the draft law does not mention anything. If there is any change in what is agreed with the provider, if, for example, the provider goes bankrupt, how will it oblige him to continue providing services to the beneficiaries? What about transporting a signal to particularly remote and problematic areas? For example, the technician from Chania to Gavdos does not reach 50 euros with 70 euros in transport, put your stay, diet, maintenance and a lot of other costs. Unless the companies have the technical workers of melon, melon, uninsured, with unpaid overtime in order to get the companies out of the scratch fly. And in many other areas - at least I in Crete know too many remote regions - it is not possible to reach them or to cover them at the cost of EUR 110. However, these are part of the total cost which, obviously, are not covered by EUR 110 single, nor are companies prepared to cover them. So here's how they ensure certain customers! This is how the needs for information and information become the instrument for the profitability of business groups! This is how the state and their governments serve in the best possible way! Moreover, it is a question: why not open competition and whoever gives the best offer? Obviously, it is done with the proposed framework by satisfying all private providers. The JRC, of course, does not restrict its criticism and disagreement on who is a better provider and who is best to guarantee the work, but on the fact that the urban state and its governments neither want nor cannot guarantee equal, free and objective access for the people to information and information. Article 1, concerning the purposes and general principles of this draft law, is revealing the Government's intentions. He says: "The framework for achieving access to television receivers is governed by the principles of transparency, the safeguarding of healthy and effective competition for the benefit of end-user, equal participation in communication and information." Business interests, which are profit-driven, cannot objectively ensure either equal participation or objectivity in information. What concerns business interests is the exploitation of so-called 'digital fillets'. The obligation to switch to digital broadcasting is based on the decisions of the European Union since 2009 in order to release frequencies, to be allocated to the audiovisual and online monopolies, in order to have a rapid economic recovery, as she says. According to European Union estimates, the use of digital dividends can bring hundreds of billions of euros and that is why, as the relevant European Union report says, its countries must speed up the switchover to digital television and the national authorities must use the digital dividend for the benefit of competition, so that the market can open up to young entrepreneurs and new services, maximising the impact on the economy. In our country, the digital dividend fillet is estimated to reach 50 billion, which, of course, is being plunged away by the businesses that exploit it, gaining high profits. Like the previous governments of the New Democracy and PASOK, today's support for the media-controlled big businessmen. After all, all government moves and decisions are in line with the European Union's demands. The explanatory statement is clear: "The implementation of this project is, among other things, an important step, in line with the European Union's requirements," he says. As took place in 2009, which gradually began the transition from analogue broadcast to digital and was completed in 2014, where it was delivered to the hands of big businessmen and publishers, with the possibility of cutting and sewing information and entertainment to the measures of their interests, thus extending the control of terrestrial digital broadcasting to 100% of the territory. We are, of course, opposed to 'equivalence in information'. It has no real impact on the constitutionally guaranteed right of citizens to communication and information. For how funny the argument for equal information is, I will remind you that in November 2017 you proceeded with the abolition of the postal discount through ELTAs, post offices, handling up to four hundred copies per issue that has been in force for decades for publications, newspapers and magazines, regional and local as well as sectoral. You have led historical newspapers that had uninterrupted chronic ties with the people either to close or suspend or are going to be suspended when, for example, a monthly local newspaper to move four hundred copies should pay 540 euros postal fees. How forbidden for her survival! A specific example is the newspaper "ALYTHIA", the oldest local newspaper of Chania, with a total of sixty-seven years of traffic and thousands of subscribers, not only in Crete. The only period that stopped to be issued is the Judas period, where it was banned as the main informative body of the Communist Party in the region. You rejected the JRC's amendment calling for the return of the post office discount to the provincial press without any justification on the part of the government and you, Minister. We are reintroducing this issue and we invite you to reconsider it, since you say that we have entered the normality of the memorial era, and to proceed directly to the restoration of this injustice. We are returning by saying that there are no equal principles, nor is there any distortion of the digital divide and the inequality in the information and entertainment of those under the control of business groups. At this level too, there are two perceptions, two strategies. The first is the Government, the European Union and the business interests it considers to be communication, information, digital dividends, the range of frequencies as a commodity and, on the other hand, the strategy that the JRC serves and considers public goods and a social right to information and information. That is why, as a JRC, we believe that the way out lies in the socialisation of the main means of production, central planning and labour control. This practically means that there must be a single state communications body that can ensure cheaper, easier, faster and safer access for all citizens to a wide range of instruments and services and integrate broadband into the universal service. Frequency and communications in general are a public asset, as are electronic media. As long as it is in the hands of individuals, it will be a field for speculation and a weapon against the people. In Chapter II and in relation to Article 12, let me say that paragraph 1 of the article on a number of prohibitions to ensure confidentiality of communications is particularly problematic. In capitalism, in our view, protection of the confidentiality of communications is totally pretext. First of all, the legislative framework itself, starting with the Constitution, contains provisions giving the civil state the right - there is no neutral state - to monitor all communication when it considers it necessary. The "terrorist" that allows continuous monitoring and revelations from the bags of the NSA and the Greek Police proves that no kind of protection of the confidentiality of communications from the urban state is provided. The clashes at the offices of the JRC that could not be dealt with by the urban state and the revelations that come to light for general monitoring phenomena - for which you have islanded - as did the recent court ruling that Tsalidis death was murder, prove that the urban state cannot only ensure the confidentiality of telecommunications, but sees its own exclusive right to circumvent it on the basis of the need to protect the class interests it serves. In our view, the number one enemy of workers is this urban state and this provision that you brought and comes to strengthen its repressive character. (b) in conjunction with the general responsibilities which you give the Government to decide the type of equipment the disposal of which is illegal and is being prosecuted. The formalities make the disposal of equipment which is considered to be purely educational throughout the world, such as GNU-RADIO equipment. Besides, the hypocrisy of safeguarding data proves that the collection, processing and censorship of employees' personal data, in which large monopolistic groups and banks do not only fight it, but you do not lose the opportunity to praise it. And I shall end, Mr President, with the Greek Space Agency and the amount of EUR 1 000 000 from the reserve. The JRC's view regarding the establishment of the Hellenic Space Agency is formulated and known. The Government is essentially setting up another office for the sale of rights. We talked about it in the relevant draft law. The only activity of this organisation will be the marketing of data from European programmes and the sale of the country's space rights. It will contribute to further privatisation, marketing space, subjugation of technological, space applications, science and research, the competitiveness of monopolistic groups and their profitability, the militarisation of space and the strengthening of repression against the labour-loverian movement. Therefore, we cannot agree with the grant of a million euros, regardless of whether it is a little or a lot of money, because it has nothing to do with research and people's needs. I reserve the amendments, Mr President, in dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, too. Mr. Psarianos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u42	Thank you very much, Mr President. We have a progressive government that has received an incredible gift from the great. It went up the wave, say as a surfer, indignation, anger, etc., seized power and had the potential to bring some serious improvements in the way the political system operates, the country, the state, the public, the private sector, the labour, justice, education, health, the relations between the state and the church. He had the opportunity to make big changes, the ones that the country needed before he was dictated by a number of tribal lenders who blackmail us and drink us blood in the stove. This government has not, therefore, implemented such a programme or has not tried to see how it is done elsewhere, in other progressive countries. And I don't mean North Korea, Venezuela or Argentina that we would like to be, as we have declared in the country's rulers and not in the cafeteria. If he were trying, he would see how a favoured regime works, a European country, having the curse of being in this damn Europe that is taking advantage of us, pouring us in and blackmailing us, and we did not have the luck of being in any African Union or in the Latin American left or right junta. What could we do? He can think of an average progressive Greek citizen, liberal progressive and almost left and say that "one, two, three, four". Where's he got a good education? Finland. We're popy pasteing, what the ministers say. We take it and we do it. We are, of course, applying it in the light of the specificities of the climate, the country, the people, the state, the history. Where does he care about culture? At any level, in any area. Which country in Europe has the best function of justice? Luxembourg? Take it and do it. Who has the best care of broadcasting? England with the "BBC"? Italy with the "RAIs"? Which country from the European Union? Belgium. Take it and do it. Why do we keep doing experiments and experiments from bad to worse? For culture, we are doing various methods and improvements. Each Minister feels obliged to do some things and changes all the previous ones and makes some other new ones that are totally "hello", if I may express them. The same goes for education. In education, Finland, let us say, often as an example, has changed from 1961 to the present 50 governments on the left, on the right, on the left, on the left, on the left, on the liberal, progressively liberal, centre-left, on the centre-right, and on the right, on the one hand, and on the other. In Greece every minister sits three or four, he feels obliged. The last guy's done three? I'll do four. We're changing, we're taking the exams back, high school, sixth grade, we're doing it two, high school, etc. We're doing a lot of these experiments all the time, and then he comes in and does the next experiments, instead of getting to see how something else works. The same is true of broadcasting. We should see how civilised countries and normal people do it. They're asking the Institute of Vladivostok, Ulan Bator, Quala Lubour to tell them how many licenses they fit in digital frequencies? They put forty days incarcerated in the horns with a ranch, say, and with some skates of interested investors for channels and radio stations? Do they hang on the rings and torture them to say if they're going to behave well to the government, to the government, or not, to see if we're going to give them permission? And they do this for forty days, and then it collapses as a paper tower, and we go back to the top, while we can say five things: we give ten permits, they will give out of 10 million each, we have no auctions for another 40, another 70, and then we get them back and find them with the pastures and all that, Minister. We are giving ten permits and we are taking 15 million of each, and we are moving forward and giving the licences to the parties concerned. They were not fifty, they were not a hundred interested in pan-Hellenic permits. They were two hundred, how many were there? Could have been six, eight, ten, twelve. Give twelve, give thirteen, fit, do. What can the Tananaribian Institute offer our rich concern? We can see how it's done elsewhere and do it. If we like Caracas, see how they do it in Caracas and do it. If we like Pyonyang - I don't know who - to see how it is done, how people, comrades and implement it, but, of course, adapted to the Greek reality and the specificities of the Greek state, which has been a hundred and eighty-five years old, always boiling the strangers for whatever disaster we have seen. We find the strangers and we curse them for the civil war, for the junta, for the Asia Minor disaster, for the Cyprus problem, for the murder of Kapodistrias. It's all the strangers' fault, it's half the others, it's their fault, it's their fault, it's their fault, it's the others, it's the strangers, it's the strangers' fault, it's our fault, it's never our fault. We have tried all the failure recipes - copying foreign failures too - without trying to see who achieved something somewhere and trying not to copy them, but to implement it here. The Minister for Education once replied to me about Finland and about large educational institutions and systems. He told me that there are imperfections and that the systems are suffering there too and that they are not, say, the best. Soon they'll start stealing ideas from us, they'll send spies to see how we do it so that people, Minister of Education, you're listening to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u43	It's not unreasonable what you're saying. It's the only reason you said it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u44	Thank you very much. I think they've already begun. I've seen some spies coming and looking for how we do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u45	We don't have to spy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u46	Researchers, students of education come to see how the Minister of Education does it in Greece and the jack, they put it in Norway.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u47	Do you think Finland has done nothing?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u48	You're doing very well. You know, education here is for students, students and students. It is not for those who exercise it, and for the rights, benefits and pensions and tricks for those who practice a so-called education, which is not even education, and which every six, eight months, fifteen, twenty-four months change it. Again under the urgency procedure it was tabled Monday evening and Tuesday morning that a bill attempting to resolve the problem of digital isolation and exclusion from information and entertainment created by the distorted transition from analogue to digital TV with the current frequency map, because it was not sufficiently taken into account in the interest of citizens. It is a bill that concerns around 4% of the country's population, that is, about four hundred thousand people and, generally speaking, moving in the right direction, trying to solve a real problem, and again addressing this problem in a way of a clientele, with photographic systems and tricks, with choices from the government once again a subsidy policy. It is a bill that could be discussed for two to three months, to draw some conclusions and not Monday we put it in the oven and Tuesday afternoon we take it out and eat it hot.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u49	However, we have made three committees for the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u50	We have made several committees, but it has been months since the previous bill we discussed and from the previous bill we were discussing and did not see things with real and not deforming lenses.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u51	No, no, for this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u52	We have not seen what it is really like and how other civilized countries see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u53	Three meetings!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u54	The purpose of discussion is whether or not it should be for permanent residents or for all the dwellings of these regions, which are electrified, they are paying ENVIA, and finally for the "ERT". As far as the EPP ends, we have to discuss this at some point. There are houses that have no radio, no televisions. There are power stations for water systems in fields, in the "Copaids" of Greece that pay "ERT" and do not have television. They have electricity to water. They have no television, no radio, nothing. There are cars that have television in the car and don't pay because they don't have electricity, they don't have PPC's bill. They have radio in the car and they listen, but they do not pay 'ERT', regardless of whether they hear or see 'ERT' or any other channel, regardless of the system that the 'ERT' is paid by all the country's electricity accounts from any citizen, whether they see or not they see, and they receive advertising. It's kind of unfair competition. Why, because I'm a private channel shoe and I'm an agent of various interests? We must say that the ERT is paid by the citizens, they want not, they see do not see, they do not listen, and it also has advertising. The other channels only have advertising, they're chasing it and they're not paid by anyone. There can't be a number of rosphetological dealings there. There is a question of defining the permanent resident. It is unclear how the permanent resident emerges and why someone who goes home, in his village for five months has no right to such provision. My mother, your aunt, the cousin of the other who goes to Livadia or to Komotini, goes four to five months or every two months, sits a month and flees, because she doesn't have the right and has to be a permanent resident. Who defines residents? Why would the municipalities testify to the permanent residence and the JEPs, as the main residence arises from the tax declaration? Why is this not considered a permanent residence and open windows to be regarded as permanent with the municipality's certification, without making clear what criteria such certification takes place? Why is legislative power to amend the areas of which the inhabitants are beneficiaries? Aren't these areas specific? How many of the areas that today don't have access are left out? You leave open the possibility of integrating new areas with consequent costs that cannot be calculated. There is no report, no calculation of how to measure this. We note that while the duration of the access services provided is eight years, there is a possibility of changing by a ministerial decision. A lot of things are now done by ministerial decision, or by joint ministerial decision, or by personal intervention or modification, or by equilibrium, on the issue of any minister, equilibrium in the management of the matter. Is it not abusive of the type of provision provided, which obliges the provider to continue providing its services, even if its position has changed and may be in liquidation, forced management or bankruptcy? How can that happen? It should also be clarified what exactly costs the public subsidy of EUR 110 is. You don't clarify it. You do not even mention how it will be checked by the competent authorities that the grant to be granted to beneficiaries will be made available for the purpose of the project and not for other purposes. Not in an amendment to the project budget by means of a joint ministerial decision, because this is the way to make it possible again to a minister, any minister, each minister, to be dissatisfied. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] From the General Accounting Report of the State, only the amount of the grant is EUR 24 million, and we do not know what the costs are for the implementation and operation of the information system, for the implementation of the project and for the necessary publicity and information actions for related costs. Is there a study describing the logic of the project? A General Secretariat may have a supervisory control, but Local Government agencies can exploit and make better use of infrastructure than the General Secretariat at local level. This is something that the local government can do and not another General Secretariat or an existing General Secretariat. A high amount of EUR 1 million per year is given, that is, for the Greek Space Agency, without knowing where all this money will go. The notices that are currently being issued to the organisation in question are said to be photographic again. It also emerges from the contexts and the contexts and statements that the doctorate's diploma, let's say, gives five molecules, while the interview gives forty, because it is ours and it will pass. While the four doctorates give four times five, twenty molecules. That doesn't count too much. The interview has much more and more gravity. Here, too, we must say that the Strategic Planning Directorate, as one of the most demanding addresses, should have as senior officials. Therefore, it should be managed by officials with a minimum rating and with a desired extra. I have three more general questions. How do you substantiate - and with 'e' and 'yes' - that the solution through state subsidies to beneficiaries and through them to known companies is the best? Why is the remaining 4% of the territory not covered in the way 96% is already covered? Why are non-residents - countryside, patronage - not covered? Aren't they paying ERT and ENPI? If there are any other areas outside the coverage, or if non-residents join the programme, is there money for implementation? Why didn't DIGEA have to cover the entire territory and especially the sensitive areas close to Turkey and see Turkish, Bulgarian or Albanian or any other television, but not Greek? Will the majority of Greeks be forced to buy back decoders for the new televisions they bought some time ago with enough money for the crisis we are spending, so that they can go to the new digital signal? These are a few questions that need to be answered. I would like to close by saying again that whether Mr Psarianos is Mr Gavroglou or Mr Gavroglou, there is no need to discover the fire, the wheel or the fiber, and the alement and the sedimentary digital technology machines. We can see how others who have done well, and copy or apply the system there that has achieved and is a model. In any European country we can find very good things and get them here and be proud both as Greeks and as Europeans and as modernists and as reformers and as leftist and progressive people and as all. We have to accept that we are Europe and that we want to be more European than we are, rather than licking in Buenos Aires, New York, Bombay, Tokyo and Barbaria, Karakas, Venezuela or Argentina. We also need to stop all of us, all of us, on all sides, showing some strangers who are to blame for what we've done here. All the great disasters that have occurred to us have occurred because we were responsible for them. No one caused them. On the contrary, others helped this country. And without the help of other civilized and friendly neighbouring countries, which are more greek than we are, this country would not have made it through and could have been broken down. This must be realised and we must know and be far from here much more careful about the way we plan on the future of our children, which we have already promised, and we have already charged them. I'll see you at the articles. But we'll vote more no. In principle, we will vote'residents' in the bill. We shall also be voting on the three amendments, which again come in accordance with the procedure of the tropology, which is three, five, twenty, thirty-five, as much as we can and we are wedging amendments to unrelated or semi-biased bills. Thank you very much. Have a good season from the new session that will start after this summer's department!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u55	Mr Cavalellas, a special speaker of the Union of Centres, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u56	Thank you very much, Mr President. In the urgency procedure, we still have a bill which seems first positive, but there are errors, omissions, photographic articles. Hundreds of villages are out of cover and that makes sense. We can never get 100% coverage, so the approach is wrong. In other words, the way we try, by spreading the signal to cover the whole territory, is by nature wrong, because I may have a large building or a hillside, and I deprive myself of the possibility of having a normal reception. People go on, technology goes on, Space now promises undisturbed service provision. We therefore need to follow another route, that of the satellite broadcast of free reception. You will tell me that there is a question of rights here, because we may have free reception in Germany. Here too, there can be a solution when the user has provided a specific code card that the company who wants to spread freely the signal can unlock the specific user's card that is inside the Greek territory and have an excellent download. It is therefore an economic method, but it does not pass through the hands and pockets of these great intermediaries, as is probably the 'DIGEA'. I'm not saying it for sure. I'm researching it. So you can transmit what you want, the so-called of the highest importance, because I saw here in the highest importance of showing something football. Of course sport is good too, it's good football, but it impressed me that in the first themes of the highest importance were some balls, some stadiums, etc. You don't want to bring the Space solution as a solution for 100% of the ground, so you lose the ball. Everyone can transmit through space and don't have control. I mean, he can have a license from Italy and play a Greek program. How will you forbid him? So, Minister, you want to check the channels through an PSE, which will give four to five permits. You were talking about representativeness in the ERC. What prevented you from joining the smaller parties there with a representative, so, for the goodness of having to show that you're democrats? Where is the representation of the Centro Association? You missed SKAI and he got permission. You couldn't avoid it. You called him 'Bothokanalos'. You cannot, because the station had the guarantees and you are pogroming now on a channel which has the official permission of the Greek state. And you are the government, and you are the first to keep and apply it with reverence. Refusing and prohibiting your MPs and your members from appearing on any channel - I am not saying now about 'SCAI' - which is licensed by the Authority that the Greek state has authorised, is a great mistake of yours. It is like the mistake of the New Democracy, which he did not want to recognise as President of the Republic, Mr Sarzetakis. The remarkable previous speaker from ANELs said about four to five channels, based on a report from a university in Italy. He was talking about four channels in the first place. Now there have been five, because the MEGA simply could not be licensed. Twenty-four, thirty-four. Do you know how many national range and high-definition channels Italy has? Twenty-eight national and high-definition channels and a few twenty others. The whole is four hundred - six hundred channels. A satellite, let's say, "Hotbird 13E" has loaded up a thousand two hundred channels and could have more. There is no limitation, as you want to present to check things, nor to the frequency capacity. There is, of course, a restriction, but he touches hundreds of channels. So what do you want? If you had more channels, you'd have more revenue. You could take, say, 50 million each and have ten. You'd have 500 million. We are now talking about an example. But what do you want? You want an ERT that has colourlessness and sees only red on the one hand - left is always seen by the ERT - and a ERT that pays it and the pigs. Understand? In the end, there will be only pigs left to pay ERT, because ERT is worth nothing more. And I'll tell you why it's not worth it. Because it's your crooked livanist. I've never seen such a thing before. Even dictators, Papadopoulos and Pattacos - no one will know about Pattaco - had on the news the communist Carter and his left hand, Mr. Caps. So ERT didn't see any of the protests about our Macedonia. He underestimated these simple people who came out on the street or described them as patriots, extreme right, etc. Some kids ten years old are far-right? In any case, for our Macedonia you see nothing about Ruvikon, because they are your 'children'. You don't want to talk about their disgrace. I've never learned to have any of them arrested. I don't know, he may have been arrested, but you're taking them home by taxi. You have, to say, this pattern of Cuban TV, Maduro, and you will soon evolve and become like this Kim Young Eun, who presenters just cry out his name, with tears many times. The ERT is therefore operating abusively for its purpose. I'll tell you why. It has six seven political shows for two days a year. Should not each Member be present there, as he has a right, seven times a year? ERT takes the money of the entire Greek people. Apart from some Members, which allows them the system, I have not seen anyone present in your broadcasts, your own ERT. Nor do I see parties present there outside the House, as if they had no reason or anything to say. I'm going to sue the managers at the end of the four years because they abused their party position there. So there are two categories of ERT MPs, two speeds. I was invited once by mistake. I don't remember if it was a Daymare and they couldn't find anyone else. It happened and I went and denounced their disgrace. I was asked why, because I said that ERT is a farm of many slow-wages. So they asked me, "Why do you say that?" Because that Monday I went, there were three girls who supposedly painted the one who appeared at the ERT in Agia Paraskevi - and another who entered and talked with them. So I was asked: 'Where do you see that we have a slow payroll here'? So I told them: "The morning I came, it was to be painted by three girls and a quarter came and they talked at seven o'clock in the morning." Of course they didn't call me back. They saw me with half an eye while I was leaving, and they didn't even say hi. You are pluralist, fans of Castle and other tyranns and you do not know from democracy. You apply this on a regular basis. I'm opening the TV, and I'm listening to liquor stores. I'm just shutting down ERT right now. Don't laugh, because that's the way it is. You lack seriousness, you lack a democratic perception. You apply left-wing tactics because the Left, when it took power, tried to impose it in anti-democratic ways while proclaiming democracy. Of course this has been done everywhere, you cannot question it. It's even happening today. So you miss the seriousness and you don't want the housekeeping. Of course, the New Democracy and the PASOK cannot say that they have allowed these decades to pass constructively on the dissemination of the television signal across the territory. We believe that for Greece's total coverage of the 'white areas' we need to look at things with a different approach. We have to give the signal from Space, which can go to every house, whether or not it is in front of the hill, and so we will not have the choice between permanent and occasional residents. What will occasional residents do? Will they go to "eye" at other people's house to see a show they're interested in? Don't they have any rights? Do they have half the rights in relation to the others, because they're half the days there? We have therefore talked about a different approach to dissemination. As far as funding is concerned, we have great objections, because we are calling for European Union funds to be covered. The European Union has. And if it does not have to make available such funds and programmes, we should ask for such a programme. Greece has a disadvantage. It's not a country quite plain, it has many mountains, hills, etc. I do not understand why only the national channels are broadcast in the 'white areas'. The local nature of a channel cannot highlight the problems of a region? How do you perceive decentralization with that logic? Only with the big channels, the cross channels. You even wanted the channels to go to the croissants too. The Communist Party sees it differently. We see it differently. You want the croissants to have channels. The middlemen who try and succeed? To date, many people who did not have the cash from the cruises, who were not shipowners, who had not undertaken to build roads and ports. They did well on television, especially in the province. But these are the ones we exclude from, the editors of the province. I will speak on the articles in my next speech. I have too much to say and I don't have time. I will say attributes that you want to hire on the basis of - let's say - some bonuses of the type “you will get forty units”, you will say “day, I am your best friend” and you will get forty”, “I have two doctoral diplomas”, “five and five make ten, take ten, you, forty, the “friend”. That's ridiculous. These must be deleted, because they expose you to the Greek people, they also expose you to the public. There was no way we could leave it and not call it an abortion. So the need to disseminate the television signal also finds us in agreement, but the way you intend to implement it does not cover 100% of the territory. He's not the most modern. It's not the final solution. We'll get to Space show sometime. Do it now, so that we don't do other things this year and other things after five years and the Greek people get to costs. So we disagree with economics in the way of awarding them. We shall vote 'yes' at first, and in my next speech I will be placed more effectively.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u57	The Minister has the floor, Mr Gavroglou, to present an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. I will talk about two amendments. One has to fill in the vacant and vacant posts of the Heads of Education and Advisory Centres, the so-called JEPS. We are simply proposing a more rational system, instead of there being too many tables per ERC per region, so that if there are any gaps one can go from the regional table to the specific ERCF, under the conditions, obviously, which he wants, etc. The second element of the first amendment relates to the notice that we usually make principles of November to fill gaps in some difficult schools. Many times some assistant teachers don't want to go to schools which are inappropriate, far away, etc. We are doing a second cycle of notices, and that is exactly where we say the schools that are in need. So, they say, they know exactly where they're going. It's not like the first proclamation. We say that if they resign from there and from these schools, then they have no right to run for two years, because that is what is upsetting the system. In particular, we must be very strict on the subject of the second proclamation. The first notice shall not apply. If someone resigns, they obviously have the right to run over the next few years. Because there was a misunderstanding - a misunderstanding - and various sites thought that we were reintroducing a provision that we ourselves had abolished. The second amendment relates to the Minority Gymnasium - Xanthi High School. This is where we literally correct an unorthodox. The high school was founded in 1965 with a ministerial decision and a decision by the prefect then. It does not fall under the provisions of a 1977 law regulating minority schools. Now, why it is not about what it is impossible to understand. Neither did the state force them, nor did they want to do so. This means that there is no legal authorization. For decades it has not worked legally. It's refreshed with various...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u59	Is it private, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u60	In fact, it's private. In 1977, the law regulating minority education, including private, was passed. We therefore say that a committee should, firstly, be set up which will ask for normal authorization. This should involve the Director, the Deputy Director, a Kyp, an engineer from the Public Health Department, and obviously the Director of Secondary Education of Xanthi, in order to obtain the school's normal operating licence, i.e. to be legalized and any interventions in the building should be made. The second thing we are saying is that this should be run, like the corresponding high school in Komotini, by a three-member committee involving elected representatives of the parents and guardians. We are tabling this amendment. We think that a situation which was 'in the air' is rationalized - to use a more popular expression - and I am obviously at your disposal for any clarifications. Let me note that today is the start of the school year at 13.5 thousand schools and kindergartens. According to the information we had just before I came to the House by the regional directors, it is an extremely smooth year. There are twenty thousand alternates in place, the Prime Minister announced the permanent appointments of four and a half thousand teachers, which is a very important principle. It is a regularity that I think not only our government is credited, but also our entire society and, above all, our teachers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u61	The Minister for the Interior has the floor, Mr. Haritsis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to present an amendment, which goes on to a series of regulations concerning two very important, urgent and critical issues: on the one hand, the uninterrupted transfer of primary and secondary school pupils to and from schools and, on the other, the smooth implementation of the programme on the harmonization of working and family life, the financing programme for nursery schools. As far as the first issue, namely the transfer of pupils is concerned, the amendment first provides for the extension by the end of the year, at 31/12-2018, of the possibility of the Committee of the Regions which have launched the tenders - the regions are the contracting authorities - to transfer the pupils to decide on the award of the relevant services to temporary contractors, provided that the tenders have not been completed by signing the contracts in question. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] The implementation of those contracts, which were in force until 30-6-2018 until the end of the year, shall also be extended by a decision of the Economic Committee, in the case of no contractors in the pending tenders, while the transport costs incurred from the start of the school year 2018-2019 until the conclusion of the relevant transport contract shall be legally paid, provided that the regional manager concerned confirms, by means of an act, the execution of the school transport of pupils and, of course, the amount of the expenditure is in accordance with the decision to award the relevant Economic Commission of the Region. Finally, in relation to this issue, the problem that arose in relation to the realisation by the spending regions of the transport of pupils in the first half of 2017 and 2018 is addressed. In some cases the commitments made by the regions were not sufficient to cover the total expenditure required. It is therefore possible to clear and pay these expenditure against the appropriations for the regions in the current financial year. These provisions shall apply retroactively from 30-6-2018. With regard to the second issue, namely the harmonisation programme, in paragraph 2 of the Amendment, it ensures that, for the school year 2018-2019, the payroll and insurance contributions of workers employed in this programme, the harmonisation programme, with fixed-term private-law contracts at the OTAs will be smoothly and unnecessarily paid so that there is no problem with the proper functioning of this very important programme. Finally, I would like to make a comment because, as I have heard from the Ministry of the Interior, these provisions are being voted on in the House with a periodicity over all these years. I think that what needs to be done is to find a lasting solution to these issues. These are issues that are very critical, which are related to children's lives and the lives of thousands of families. We cannot run for the last minute every year to meet these needs. We have just signed a KHS which improves the relevant institutional framework, and by my predecessor at the Ministry of the Interior, Mr Panos Skourletis, significant steps have been taken lately, so that we can have an institutional framework that allows us and tools that will enable us to permanently resolve this issue. Tomorrow we have a meeting with the regional union. I would therefore also call on the regions, which, as contracting authorities, also have the responsibility to implement this very important project, but also the co-responsible ministries, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Transport, to sit together and find a lasting solution to this problem, so that we do not have to come back every time with provisions which have limited time force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u63	I shall now give the floor to the Deputy Minister for Digital Policy, Mr Cretso.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a bill that was very eagerly awaited by hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens in the region. Today we are discussing an initiative that corrects a pathogen of the past which left without a three and a half thousand 'white' signal - the word - regions and at least four hundred and ten thousand citizens. I think they might be more than five hundred thousand. This pathogen we come to correct, finally dealing with the black - without introductorys - of the coexistence of the New Democracy and PASOK to our hundreds of thousands of fellow citizens when switching to the digital signal. Because Mrs Anna Michelle is not here, who should know that the transition to the digital signal does not always bring problems and diseases, and these do not come as a'man from heaven'. Unfortunately, it is a reality that offends us as a state. We are still discussing in 2018 whether residents of remote areas will have access to information and entertainment. We are, of course, discussing it, because, as I said, nothing comes from a historical gap, because it is precisely the transition to the digital signal that has been made by our predecessors in a way that is extremely transparent, inefficient and provocative, something that the Members of the New Democracy and PASOK themselves accept and confess, which since 2015 has really bombed us with constant questions, by pressing for a post-return solution. Requests, appeals, letters even receive from mayors who are not only the government. Ladies and gentlemen, the competition for the network provider proved to be a farce and the switch to the digital signal was extremely problematic. This is not an evaluative placement. It's a lifestyle fact that experiences thousands of our fellow citizens. However, because I have also heard Mrs Asimakopoulou come up against this issue, we must remind everyone that it was a competition with a participant, at the price of the minimum starting price - around EUR 18 million - and indeed, in the terms of a contract notice, we are going to the minimum starting price if there is one candidate. Therefore, as civil servants, they were so interested in safeguarding the public interest. I understand that the Canadians are doing their job, but those who act as officials of the public interest must prove it in practice and not in words and screams and in a convention, of course, binding for fifteen years. It was a contest - supposedly - by auction, no auction. So he gave 'DIGEA' to canalarchs, the right to operate an important network, and indeed - take note of the challenge here - with predictions of sharing business risk and guaranteed profitability. This is a challenge for society, but also for all the entrepreneurs in this country. There has never been any other competition which provides for guaranteed profitability and which relates to a public asset: the spectrum. I say this because we have heard too much jokes, that the spectrum is unlimited, etc. You, Mr. Cavadela, have confused satellite television with terrestrial digital. We'll get you a tutorial sometime to understand it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u65	I'll do it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u66	It was also challenging that ten days after the end of the consultation, the map of frequencies was magically altered. Of the two hundred and seventy-five emission centers that would get us 98% coverage, we went to the fifty-six transmission centers. And yet the New Democracy has not answered why. Why did you do that? Who did you serve? How did you serve the public interest? So the big-timers took the contents, got a network. They have fully checked the broadcasting scenery and the whole sphere of traffic and production of information, without having given them permissions of content. In fact, together with the banks, you also tried to make it easier for DIGEA, the consortium that the first price of payment for the digital signal gave it just in 2017. Because I heard Mrs Anna Michelle celebrated the first digital dividend, I wanted to remind her that it was the country's obligation. Since 2011, the Commission has been begging all governments to do so and they have done nothing. More precisely, they did a lot, i.e. they closed the ERT, closed the Institute of Audiovisual Media, closed the National Audiovisual Archive, took off a map of "pads", changed the Emission Centres in beams, to facilitate the canalarchs in the profitability clause and, of course, split the risk against all those who had to pay what we call AOT, that is, the highest price, that is, the regional channels. So you've done too much in recent years. The most vulgar, however, was that by making a contract with the Greek State, you legally made a "Yiannis is buying, Yiannis drink", from one pocket to the other. And, of course, as a magician in 2013, ERT closes. It was a violent, barbaric, sudden blow to the freedom of print and to the lives of people working there. And don't talk like that again, Mr. Cavadela. You don't have the honour of talking about pigs when you talk about the people who work at the ERT. It's a disgrace to you that thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u67	No, it's not my shame. It's your shame.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u68	It is disgraceful to speak this way for the workers. Anyway, the ERT with its closure is forced then, having not finished the competition for transmitters, and we will see what has happened, and on this subject, to rent services from DIGEA and give about 2.5 million a year, of course, since it opened. We have heard more jokes from Mrs Asmakopoulou today, which I really do not know with what courage she is talking about - political courage I mean, I have nothing personal with her - and she says to us that after three and a half years we have been making relics. What kind of revolts? Mrs. Asmakopoulou isn't here. Who opened the ERT? Who finished the story with the Audiovisual Media Directive in favour of Greek creators? Who established television frequencies with our neighbours to fit more channels, regardless of whether there is any business interest? Seven licences were issued to the ERR, barely five. Who didn't forget to sign for the frequency fee? Were the people of the conflict so busy they couldn't sign? That's forty million! So these are the challenges. We have completely changed the institutional framework for the operation of the media. I say it confidently. What you didn't do 30 years in the field of information and entertainment, we did it. You don't even make a friendly policy to guarantee national rights in the area of digital frequencies and infrastructure. Of course you forgot to charge frequency charges, as you forgot to apply the special television tax, this notorious 20% of the first memorial law, Law No.3845/2010. I'm sorry for my tension. But sometimes I think that those who come to this House should also be a little prepared and know what we are talking about. So that's the past. But I know we have to look forward. I think this bill comes to lay the foundations to overcome the problem of the exclusion of thousands of our fellow citizens from the good of information, entertainment and education. I would also like to say that this bill, the universal television coverage bill, comes very close to the recent PSE decision on the licensing of the five pan-Hellenic television stations. So you will allow me to consider a significant and large circle in the television scenery, but which, of course, does not offend our urban democracy, because it was a landscape that operated illegally and with immunity for decades. I would also like to say that for the first time after thirty years, beyond licensing, we are covering the main problems of citizens' coverage on the digital television signal, apart from the fact that public television works and innovates - particularly in the field of digital radio, hybrid television and currently has the greatest video on Demand channel - we are still trying to attract audiovisual productions and investment from abroad and of course to try to travel from Greece abroad. In this context, therefore, and of course with the success that he has experienced - about a year before we voted for this law, the law has been in place for about four to five months - the country can say so very confidently, has succeeded in entering the map of the most attractive countries in terms of audiovisual production. We will support this even further by providing for this amendment, in its first article, to increase the level of aid for investment projects from 25% to 35%, please, all the eligible costs of production - most countries are between 25% and 40% - and by providing for the ceiling to be abolished to be set at 5 million to date. Finally, something very important, because it will make it easier to deal with liquidity problems, especially for small businesses and independent producers, is that we provide for the possibility of allocating the amount of the subsidy to Greek banks for the provision of loans. Our central objective remains growth. The opening up of the audiovisual industry in Greece is something that has many benefits both for the national economy and for local and regional development. I want to say it, and I'll keep saying it, on TV, in cinema, in animation, in video games employ more than a hundred professional categories. They are sectors that know a constant increase. And we believe that this sector, the audiovisual industry, the creative industry, must have a very central and clear place in Greece's memorial sepsis. It is a question which we want for both economic development and democracy purposes. Of course, increasing opportunities for young people and the creative community. Here require synergies, a demonstration of maturity is required. It's a national case. And we believe that very soon Greece will become a powerful regional player in the field of audiovisual production, instead of a Turkish soap producer, because that is what we have actually become. In the audiovisual sector, too, the third article of the amendment provides for the definition of sporting and cultural events of major importance for society, in accordance with the criteria laid down by the European Union by Directive 13/2010, by means of a Presidential Decree. The adoption of this provision makes it possible to complete another important initiative by the Ministry, which will correct the bad texts of the previous period. The list of events, namely events to be presented by Pay TV, by subscription television, but also by free reception channels, was first completed in a public and transparent manner, in consultation with all interested parties, and has already been sent to the Commission for approval. Finally, the second article of the amendment proposes amendments to the molecularisation criteria for the selection of the most worthy and appropriate officials to be served by the press and communication offices in our embassies abroad, on the basis of the requirements of merit, proportionality, equality and objectivity. Anyone who has disagreed on this, such as Mrs Anna-Michel Asmakopoulou, who defends the Pappa law at this point, because the previous law was Law No.3166/2003 and has given the Secretary-General the full power to define service needs and to send with other criteria the people he wants abroad, can see it. I would like to say, of course, that these changes did not arise in the vacuum, nor did we suddenly come a good day to make these changes. It is something that optimises the way in which people are transferred and seconded to the press and communication offices abroad, which is something that comes from the proposals that have already been tabled by the workers and that is something that goes further and incorporates, if you like, the provisions of Law No.4369/2016 on public administration and the way in which employees are assessed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u69	Minister, you have exceeded time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u70	I know, but Mr. Psariano has spoken for twenty minutes. You'll allow me two minutes to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u71	You had nine minutes. I accidentally gave you five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u72	I'm sorry, an understanding of my inexperience. This is the first time I've been talking to the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u73	That's a good start.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u74	Thank you very much. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I have heard very interesting comments from both Mr Psaryanos and Mr Caranastasis, as to how we define the non-permanent resident. I think there must be an approach to the law's implementation, because there is indeed countryside, we have a high degree of ownership, and this somehow has to be covered. Also very interesting is what has been said, if I am not mistaken, by Mr Karastasis, that the unit of application of the measure should not be just of the household. There may be other collective association spaces. I think Mrs Asmakopoulou has spoken about the CAP. We could talk about schools, etc. Because I've broken the time, I'll stop here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr. Crecho. Have a good time. Mr Minister, Mr Pappa, would you like to take the floor now so that the speakers can start then? They will talk after the MPs. You have more time. You want to unify him?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u76	Yes, Madam President, to unify him.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u77	That's when I'm on the list of speakers. It's three to two. Mr. Papaliou has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u78	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that the switch from analogue to digital television was gradual and resulted in the 96.2% digital television coverage of the country's total population. An uncovered 3.8%, which mainly concerns citizens living in regions with geomorphological specificities, regions which are hardest hit, remote and mountainous from the mainland and the island of Greece. These are the so-called 'white areas'. The citizens of these regions still do not have access to domestic television. This development was the result of the so-called tender for the award of the specific project to the network provider and the selection, essentially, of the direct delegation to the DIGEA, i.e. the Canalarch Consortium. It was before, the ERT's shameful 'black' and the exclusion of the latter from the competition. The signed contract, for a period of 15 years even, left entire areas of the country TV-covered at the mercy of DIGEA, since it allowed it to do so, i.e. to be dissatisfied. The present bill aims to cover these ‘white areas’ of areas not covered by the digital television signal. Until now some of them, the border, were covered by the provision of transponders by the Ministry of Digital Policy. Thus, for the first time in this draft law, the legal framework for achieving television coverage of the entire Greek territory is established, by ensuring access for permanent residents of areas outside television coverage to the programmes of Greek free-range television channels and Greek free-range television stations, which fulfil the conditions of the law. The proposed project shall be implemented through the provision of a public grant of a one-off amount of EUR 110 for once to beneficiary citizens per beneficiary household who freely choose the provider from whom to receive the abovementioned access services to domestic television. This attempts to resolve this issue immediately and definitively and is achieved by cancelling the inequality that this creates between the citizens of the country and large geographical parts thereof. In this context and on the basis of the principles of equal treatment and participation, transparency, the safeguarding of healthy and effective competition for the benefit of the end-user, these citizens are given the opportunity to fully exercise their constitutionally guaranteed right to communication, information, culture, entertainment, through their access to Greek national and regional television programmes. This reduces the digital divide between the citizens of the country and geographical parts thereof, technologically strengthens the region and the citizens who live permanently and are active in it, familiarises beneficiaries with modern digital services and technologies. Ladies and gentlemen, the project beneficiaries are the permanent residents of areas outside television coverage. It should be noted that a permanent resident of a particular area is characterised by the citizen who has his principal and permanent establishment in such a way that this place becomes the fixed centre of his general life relations. Certification of permanent residence shall be carried out by the municipal authority. However, it must be pointed out here - and the State Secretary responsible pointed out this - that there is an important issue and an important gap in the issue of residents. Especially for the villages and settlements of the Arcadia Prefecture, from which I come, the issue of permanent residents must not be dealt with closely. In these villages there are eight, nine and ten months long, especially pensioners, and not only, all three - four months of winter, from December to March, they leave for Athens or other urban centers. It's what they say "Pasha in the village and Christmas in the city". To this end, provision must be made for them to be covered by television as residents. A second comment is that in the annex to this draft law of the villages and settlements outside television coverage there are not many villages and settlements, at least, of the Arcadia Prefecture. These are villages of mountain tumor, of the Municipalities of Northern Kynouria, of Gortynia, villages of the former Dimos Iraia, Dimitrisana, Kontovazana, Trikolons, Tropices, as well as Megalopolis, villages of the former Falisia, Gortini and Megalopolis. In consultation with the municipal authorities, this omission must be lifted - without delay and without delay - by a Ministerial decision authorising the Minister with this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is the link between a chain of legislative intervention aimed at the practical application of the principles of democracy, equal treatment, transparency and the service of the public interest. His vote coincides with the licence for ten years for five national TV stations under the ERR under Law 4339/2015. After decades of television lawlessness and arbitrariness, more than once after the rabies war of the canalarchs and their allies political forces, the New Democracy and the PASOK, the television scene is regulated, gaining legitimacy. The licensed television stations must meet the requirements of the law, pay the price, in this case, of EUR 35 million for the use of the public frequency item, employ four hundred employees, meet the technical specifications for their facilities, display the ninety-hour news pages, emissions for culture, European-foreign programme quotas. This is, I repeat, a victory for democracy, equal treatment, transparency and the service of the public interest. This does not mean that the subject of television stations and their programmes is being stopped here. And this is imposed by their social mission. Control of compliance with the legality and constitutional requirements of Article 15 of the Constitution, i.e. the principle of objective and equal information, ensuring the quality of the programmes, must be constantly confirmed. The interests behind the channels are strong and, as is apparent from their ongoing attitude - propaganda orgy, the promotion of continuously take news, etc. - They don't put it down. They look forward to the re-establishment of immunity, arbitraryness, lawlessness, interlocutory. But the guards are aware and in this case guards are the great social majority of the Greek people, which will not allow it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u79	Mr Davakis, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, the way the government once again legislates is the classic relationship between Parliament and the legislative initiative. What kind of relationship? That while the Opposition, the New Democracy, wants or in principle agrees with the aim, the way, the means, as described by the articles and the general appearance of this bill, make us resort to a decent'residence' because you do not comply. My colleague Mrs Asimakoulou rightly said that you are breaking open doors with regard to your way and trying to convince us of your intended purpose of open doors because the great popular party of the New Democracy, which does not need a training for constitutional checks, the citizen's right to information, for all that is simple and basic, resists the timely, hastily delayed, rash, and misdesigned solution that you bring with this bill. There are the 'white areas' as they appear at our place of Members of the Greek region, as Mr Arcadia said. No one disagrees that these people have the same rights to access, information, in any case to watch TV. I am also a personal witness, and I have the experience of the fair complaints that all the regions of my country, Laconia, in particular the area of Etulus, the area of the municipality of East Mani, for example with a strong tourist attraction with respect for the environment, which unfortunately does not have a television signal. All the villages in the area of Otulou do not have a television signal - I do not cut you glaukas in Athens - as happens in many areas of the Municipality of Eastern Mani, Laconia and the Greek region in general. So you come in this way to give a solution and a good prospect of giving a signal to these regions. But I have to tell you five questions that arise from the mere study of this legislation. First question: why is this long delay in taking measures to extend the digital terrestrial transmission network? The best and most lasting solution is - as we all know, the technicians - the ground stations. We don't have ground stations. Already since you have been building up for the geographical gaps in the final map, you have had the time to do so. It would therefore be expected that one of your first actions would be to regulate the frequency maps and to promote the construction of digital broadcasting centres or even additional coverage stations in the ‘white areas’, in order to extend the digital signal geographically, at least in the areas that do not exist. On the contrary, the draft ministerial decision on the revision of frequency maps was posted on the Ministry's page at the end of August of this year, with more than three years of delay and with an obvious aim to complete the deposit of the draft law that you have brought us. The extension of the terrestrial emission stations is also provided for in the current draft law in Article 9(1), with the sole difference that after the adoption of the draft law the costs instead of the ‘DIGEA’ will be borne by the ERT, as referred to in Article 5(3). In other words, with the bill we hold in our hands, ERT will bear the cost of providing the private stations to the antennas of those beneficiaries who choose to resolve the terrestrial broadcast, thereby making a peculiar sponsorship for private television. A second question that goes on with all intelligent people, which has already been mentioned, is this: why is public subsidies limited to permanent residents within the 'white areas'? What today means 'permanent residents' in the Greek region, when the distances are short, when there are the double-hauled people, when there is the one who declares a permanent residence in Athens, but more time now passes to his village, the retired, the military one, who gets transferred? Isn't he entitled to a coverage service being able to watch TV? The policeman, the educator, the teacher, all those people who do not mention the place where they work, where they are professionally active as a place of permanent residence, but for whom you are not provided for in this bill, are not entitled? The third question concerns regional channels that are not part of the platform of a provider. Article 5, paragraph 2, effectively excludes regional channels that have not already obtained access to providers by distorting television competition at local level. What about this? He doesn't answer the bill. Fourthly, what guarantees are there that the provision of a television product via the Internet can provide sufficient support for the extension of the television signal to the entire range of 'white areas'? The bill may formally allow beneficiaries to receive the television product via the Internet, but in practical terms this choice, Minister, does not exist for a very large part of the households located in difficult or remote areas. In other words, and taking into account forecasts for terrestrial broadcasting stations, the practical result of this law will be to turn citizens solely on satellite dishes as the most readily available solution. A fifth question is what is going on with areas in archaeological zones? It cannot be in a village, which, for example, is located in an area under the perspective of the Archaeological Service, where dishes are placed. Has the Ministry of Culture been questioned? There are - as you well know - archaeological sites, traditional settlements which have special protection from the Archaeological Service. What about the TV dishes in these areas? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. In conclusion, I would like to say again what I started with, that these five questions - loopholes in the bill, unforeseen in the bill, demonstrate the sloppiness with which the government legislates, despite the uncertainties of the past. Some of them - I will agree - said Mr Cretsos earlier. But that seems to anyone who studies it and unravels it. So the question we have to deal with is what is the best, most lasting and most reliable way of extending the television signal of all free access channels to all residents of all geographical areas. I'm afraid this bill is a semimeter, which doesn't solve the problem. Many regions of the Greek region, much of them, are part of the 'white areas'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, too. Mr Igoumenides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, a great woman of Hellenism, Alice Hiotopoulos - Magatopoulou, the first dean woman in our country, with a huge unselfish contribution to the fight for human rights, a woman in which our country owes much, has left a few days ago. No matter how much I watched, only ERT talked about her life. Only the ERT put forward the statements made by the President of Parliament and the Prime Minister on her offer. Only the ERT incorporated an interview in its programme in 1982 into its memory. Surely in Alice Margakopoulou, combining unique science, solid passion and rare racing, they deserve much more, but certainly even this example I mentioned today, is an indication because we need ERT today, because we need a public television in the service of the citizen, because today we need a public television in defending the dignity and the honour of this place, because it has the value of entering a class in an anti-democratic television scene that has been dominated for decades. Ladies and gentlemen, with the draft law which we will shortly be voting on, in my opinion, we are restoring an injustice, we are fulfilling our constitutional obligation to equalise the citizens of the whole territory in the area of access to Greek digital television products in full scope. Today, we are legally ensuring that permanent residents of areas outside television coverage are accessed to Greek television stations. Currently, in these circumstances, the necessary funding, EUR 25 million, one from the EBRD and 24 from the state budget is guaranteed by either the Public Investment Programme or the EBRD reserves. At the same time, the vote of the bill comes at an important juncture. It comes at a time when the five definitive - now - licences, with public income, with a guaranteed minimum number of workers, whose working rights are also secured. A loose end, in other words, that has been squeezing for decades, at last, is being solved. For those who so far have been misled, I think that what the Minister said to the committees, since the beginning of 2015, has been collected from the fees of using frequencies and taxes of EUR 148 million. With a phrase for whoever does or does not understand something, today the canal owners put their hand in the pocket. I would like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that today's bill is the first since the end of the programmes, the first after the end of the financial adjustment. Thus, even symbolically, another era is inaugurated, where the restoration of injustices will be at the heart of it. In the debate before us both in the committees and here today, however, some questions have been raised which remain unanswered, at least by the opposition parties, the officer and not just. Why didn't you, ladies, collect the frequency tax? Switchy calculations are talking about half a billion. Why not just did you not want to, but you reacted with a strong, persistent, lyricous, way of setting up the National Broadcasting Council? Why didn't you want - you don't need to tell us - television licenses? He said, the previous speaker, that no one disagrees, everyone really would want there to be no 'white areas' in Greece. Good. Then why did you accept the contest - a lazy 'DIGEA'? Why did you accept her parody - action in the Greek area? Why the "black" to the ERT? Finally, why is this whole rabies attack on the Minister for Digital Policy and, through his face, the rabies attack on the government for what it does? I think the answer is simple and one. What distinguishes us from the policy of the conservative party is not whether we want the 'white' or not regions or how many areas of Greece we want to be 'white'. I think, ladies and gentlemen, and I close with this, Madam President, that this draft law concludes the effort of the government so that, at the end of the day, yes, it is cut or, if you want the most challenging, even the foundations are laid to cut off the umbilical cord of the interdependence of media people with the people of political power. That is what you have essentially tolerated, and that is why you accepted all these 'why' I asked before. That's what distinguishes us from you! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Now the Minister has the floor to follow the parliamentary representatives. I'll give you eighteen minutes, Mr. Pappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Madam President, the day has come when we debate the first bill following the country's exit from the programmes. And it is, I think, crucial and important that this bill, this law, goes to close a moratorium wound, to correct a reality that was shaped precisely because the country was in the Memorandum regime, because the political system was caught in a very weak state, because very strong interests were able to press our democracy on the neck and at a price degrading the network of digital television antennas and, of course, to perpetuate the status of non-authorisation. So our initiative is to give citizens the right to have access to the television signal, obviously not, to the business plan of the individual who has undertaken to develop the network. There are four hundred thousand people, sixty thousand households, ladies and gentlemen. It is, of course, a little ruthless to discuss new technologies, technological peaks, high-speed connections, go up to Thessaloniki for more than a hundred and twenty new-born businesses, robotic laboratories, young children, who have no envy, I would say to you that they are jealous of corresponding efforts abroad, and we in the Greek Parliament have to discuss how our fellow citizens in difficult areas will gain access to conventional technologies, which are mature. I would like to say that there is an opportunity to vote for this bill by an enlarged majority. And that's what I want to say. Of course, it will take a long time to be able to converge in how we see the television and the media past. There are too many fundamental differences here, I think, but there is a very persistent reality. A licensing procedure has been completed, which should make everyone think again and possibly revise some of the extremes they have chosen to use against us when we spoke of gods and demons, and what the repeated decisions of the Council of State have been recorded. We are therefore talking about three and a half thousand settlements, and about 3.8% of the total population. And this bill is a third step in normalising the television landscape. What television scene did we pick up? Public service broadcasting, without a programme, with a reward - I would remind you - EUR 4.25. It was 4,25 euros! And the criticism we were accepting when we opened the ERT was that the economic plan with 3 euros does not come out, which we wanted to put the reward fee. And now we hear grumbling and protests. You think you can work on ERT in political controversy. Evidently, some would not like ERT to have the rights of half the football teams from Superleague, the First National and to have the opportunity for serious spectacles. Evidently, some people notice it differently. He was, however, the public broadcaster, the first to inform the Greek people when we had global events. I remember attributes in the last Western hits in Syria that if ERT had not been, what the Greek citizens would have learned, they would have learned it through a single-minute connection of a private channel at eight o'clock in the morning. And when I say connection, I don't mean with Syria, with the place where the incident happened, but with the next room, with the studio. That would be the briefing. ERT was on a regular program and news stream at three and a half in the morning. And this good is priceless and has a cost. And we have all decided together as a democratic state to do so. The public can't get into the business plan's balance, especially when it comes to such big events. Can you imagine? Mr. Igoumenides made a reference to how some have been treated and some have not been treated in forgiveness, Mr. Margakopoulou. There are thousands of such examples. So I would say that you will have to rethink it and rethink it in Civicism, because you say that you will go the rewarding end to 1,5 euros. This means that the ERT will not be able to invest in, nor will it be able to offer Greek citizens free of charge, which, unfortunately, have been deprived of by some political choices. And I'm talking about the amazing and most popular sport all over the world, football. And so the football teams know, too, that the fans know. I don't understand what we're getting here asking for the change from this government for the advertising tax. It was criticized that we would reduce it. What happened in 2010-2014? Why were not 250 million to 300 million from the advertising tax, which was voted on? What hands did they see or find the pen and pen too heavy to sign the charge? What phones got up? Are we ever gonna find out about this? And we're really coming here to move the finger to this government? They must have been, ladies and gentlemen, the first signatures made by the Prime Minister, the allocation of the advertising tax, of 150 million in the public fund. The Independent Public Revenue Authority gave it to us the day before yesterday. This money was not collected and will now be collected by 170 million from licences and 120 million from the reduced advertising tax. They're asking us why we cut him down. Any of you guys think we have some kind of monopoly, some kind of channel tax mania? Nothing like that. Of course, there is also room for decent pay and space for investments in audiovisual production. And we also have the right tools. The Undersecretary said it before, Lefteris Cretso. Seventeen mythosplasia productions have already been launched for this year. "belly" Greek television had zero mythology. And the world was seeing Turkish and repetitions. So how do we close everything so easily? The ERT, of course, has taken the steps, completed the competition for the supply of new transmitters, and from 1-1-2019 no one will need to carry her the signal. And that is very important, not just for economic reasons, because it will save the EUR 1.6 million a year, but also for reasons of self-evidentness, I would say. The public service broadcaster must be able to carry its signal throughout the territory. We have certainly made dozens of trips throughout the country. You know that too, you know that, and I am sure that, like me and you, you will be caught by the citizens' sleeve, and that is why we have received dozens of questions from Members of all groups about when this great need will be met. There are some objections to how action is to be taken, how it will be developed, how the problems are to be overcome. Excuse me very much, but action is an action that has been successfully implemented in Thrace and the East Aegean, in the Arquis, in Leipzig, in Agathonisi, in Ehinos, in those areas where the state considered that it had no obligation to give citizens the television signal. We asked ourselves why we don't prejudge other technological alternatives. The bill is according to the formula and the letter of technology neutral. There can be a choice. It is obvious that with this freedom given by the citizen, depending on the existing infrastructures, he will choose the path that will make him much faster to have the television signal. We know them very well about the problems of connectivity and why they had been delayed and the projects which are currently accelerating. Therefore, the cost of equipment is covered for eight years. There is no question of non-transmission of an licensed station because the so-called must carry and must give is legislated, i.e. the network provider is obliged to transmit it to the licensed signal and the content provider is obliged to give its content to the network provider to carry it. There is nothing to do with the commercial relationship, agreement or discrepancy that a network provider can have with an licensed content provider in the case. It is also a matter for the citizens of Europe to have access to television products with public money and subsidies. I am, of course, sorry to hear these answers again and again - because these answers have been given, ladies and gentlemen - that the previous government had launched a solution to the problem. Okay, at some point I think we should discuss things in terms of logic. Again and again you come back and say that you had a program ready - written on the knee, you will allow me to tell you, not to tell the napkin - which - oh of the miracle! - deposited it January 23, 2015. In other words, while Samaras was talking to the Constitution, he made his central election, the agencies worked and submitted a programme. And, obviously, he responded because there was no way he could be financed, which is what the competent authorities said later. Look at you, ladies and gentlemen, I think the country has entered a new phase. It is also clear from the announcements made by the Prime Minister in Thessaloniki, from the fact that the memorials are over and there is the financial space for the necessary corrections and improvements and changes to be made. I would say to you that we must all try to shift the debate a little and lower the tone, because I understand that we will find it very difficult for us to agree on the past, but we must a bit for the future to discuss programmes. I was expecting to hear here from those who bailed against the government, saying that it is the worst government in all times, which brought the worst memorial, it has destroyed the country - which had been rescued when it had unemployment of 27% and now that it has 19.1% is damaged - I would really expect to hear in one - one of the measures that will become the law of the state with the budget, if there is agreement or disagreement. And let me tell you something, why does there have to be a little big heart in politics? Get us. Here, exhaust all possible characterizations. You can't be quiet about the rest. To reduce or not reduce the ENPIA, which you brought without an order? That is what we cannot now say half the words. Should insurance contributions be reduced or not reduced for self-employed persons? You've made whole movements. You've cursed Katrugalo hundreds of times. This concerns, in particular, colleagues from the Change Movement, where I would expect the exchange of views at the level of the programmes to take place. Because I know that with the New Democracy there is really a chaos programme and that does not miss a chance to remind us of it. He comes, of course, as a right when he doesn't use make news. Trump says he said six times Skopje Macedonia. He has recognized them since 1992, if I'm not mistaken, under the constitutional name. This has done the wrong thing on the Internet and on the social media. We travelled, he says, with the government aircraft for Thessaloniki. With a special chartered train we went. This has also been made an argument for controversy. I'm really surprised. I think these remind me of the press's arguments that Flambury was driving that speedboat to Aegina that had become the accident and, of course, the poor grandfather who has seen himself since 2011 present each year as a protester who made a protest yesterday. At this level, the controversy is made and made by people who will also dedicate your ballots. We will welcome it because they will enrich our political dialogue, I think, and confrontation. Look, the New Democracy cannot come here and see itself as justified either in the course of the programmes or in the issue of licences or, of course, in the issue of the 'Macedonian'. What is your position for the "Macedonian"? Elections will be held in a year. Will you claim a vote to cancel the deal? Will you claim a vote to cancel the licensed television stations? Will you claim a vote to go back on a credit line? I think this is absolutely certain, because your programme is impossible for the majority of the people to be accepted in conditions of normality. What are you talking about? You come along and pour out an insurance solution which has collapsed miserably where it was implemented. The state is withdrawn from insurance and adds two pillars - the third pillar does not need to do anything. And what's he doing? It makes the second, the ancillary pillar and him private. 50% of retired people in Chile must continue to work with this nice system that Pinochet applied. You will allow me to say that I deeply believe that the relativeisation of the Pinochet dictatorship was appropriate. As it is appropriate to take up this Step here and compare this government with dictatorships. This, unfortunately, is a feasibility, which is a strategy for the extreme right wing of the New Democracy, which is precisely what it wants in the eyes and the hearts of the world to relativise dictatorships. I am very sorry, but I think people have realised that there are two completely different strategies here. The slogan of EVKA is "all together stronger", the slogan of your own insurance is "the life-saving one". Our motto for digital policy is "Tomorrow, today for everyone", while your own policies left the "black" people who could not see a television signal. There are all possibilities for political dialogue to improve, upgrade and become on the basis of political arguments. I would say that there is a positive basis for decompression from the existence of programmes. The country has come out of the memos. So each party can spread its program in front of the Greek people. You have a commitment to justify everything you have done by 2014. This will be followed by this reality and the programme programmes will, of course, be considered with the democratic progressive left-wing party and the people will decide, as has been stated in the past, that they will continue this recovery course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u85	Thank you. The circle of parliamentary representatives is now beginning. Mr. Xydakis, I will give the floor first to Mr. Javara, who has asked for him, and then you follow him. Mr. Javarra, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u86	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Minister, before I mention you, I will make a reference to the Prime Minister's speech today in the European Parliament. Indeed, it is perhaps one of the darkest moments in the history of the appearances of Greek Prime Ministers in international organisations to appear Prime Minister of the country and to transfer to the European Parliament the inner-party rivalries, rather than the party rivalries that are soaring inside. The happiest picture today appeared in the European Parliament, not so much because the Prime Minister's speech did not give him the interest of many Members, but mainly because he found the opportunity, in order to retreat to what he was listening to and as Prime Minister, to try to turn against Mr Mitsotakis. This is not a serious policy, this is not a national policy and, above all, to come to you, Minister, this is not a policy that continues an attempt by the Samara Government to reach then, which you are accusing us of, in a clear statement that it really had to present an economic stabilisation and development and had indeed led the country to a clear exit from the memoranda. I have noted the fact that you have made very careful use of the word 'programme' and the word'memorandum'. Indeed, the law you bring is the first law after the end of the rescue program, the programme, if you like, of a financial facility, but on 20 August the end of the memoranda was not, and you know it very well. Because if you had bothered to read this MOU, as you say in Greek, you would see that the consequences and obligations you have undertaken with the Memorandum have not yet come to an end. What has come to an end is the obligation for the partners to finance us at a cheap rate. At last, then, we must stop this whole story deliberately confusing the information. And I use the word very selectively, and I will explain it to you later. Why are you doing nothing else in this Chamber, but where you are given a step, even through the ERT you have said, to confuse the use of information in a way that is bad and dangerous? I now have had the opportunity to speak to you about the distinction between a memorandum and a programme. There's something else. Minister, do you not know that on 20 February your government, with Prime Minister Tsipras and Minister of Finance, Mr Varoufakis, signed a declaration that the first proposal for this declaration says that 'we recognize the great efforts made by the Samara Government to get the country out of the crisis'? Do you not also know that the first paragraph of what you signed, also in August 2015, refers to exactly the same facts and recognises precisely the great and substantial contribution that the Government of New Democracy, the Government of Samaras and Venizelos had, to being able to get out of the sufferings of the economic crisis? So why do you come here today and instead of talking about this evil the legislation you bring, start here and resign us, as if nothing else matters to you and value, than to be able to move after 23 July 2018? Because everyone, Minister, knows that after that night of July 23, 2018, there is no government in Greece. There is no government that has real democratic legitimacy, which has moral legitimacy, when the country's Prime Minister himself, after a tragic event, from a tragedy literally burned by almost a hundred people, appears on TV channels and is acting as an actor, a role which you, in any event, are, after all, judged not to be worthy of a democratically elected Prime Minister. But there's something else. You referred to the ERT. Indeed, ERT is a channel using taxpayers' money to make broadcasts and no one, if you wish, today against ERT for the fact that it is public television. We are against ERT to the extent and to the extent that it is now a state television, which is only propaganda. And because I do not want to be unfair to the people who work at ERT, many of whom I honor them, many times I am among those Members who accept their proposals and appear at ERT, because I do consider it my duty as a Member of the Greek Parliament, to be privileged to go on a public television, on a television financed by the Greek people's money. But there is a limit, Minister. Unfortunately, yesterday afternoon I happened to watch an update. A show, in which some profound intellectuals wanted to convince those who heard them that New Democracy is identified by the dictatorship of Pinochet. And I ask you, Minister:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u87	The congressman told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u88	I'll explain to you about my congressman. Our honourable Member, Mr Karagunis, who is a remarkable Member and a lawmaker, has indeed said something that has been misunderstood and you know it very well, because now I will explain what I have told you about the deliberate confusion that is being cultivated by the misuse of inaccurate information. From the point of view of ERT yesterday talking about the full matching of Pinochet with New Democracy, to the point where we sit down and talk about what the New Democracy's offer is to create a public insurance system, there is a long distance. Why is there a distance? It is precisely because he does not respect the person trying to identify the New Democracy or to relate the New Democracy to Pinochet, that is to say, to the party that restored democracy in Greece, the party that opened a new historic democracy page after the Night of the Colonels in Greece, that this was New Democracy and Constantine Karamanlis. He wasn't a left man. This is where I'll fix you. We do not identify your party, which is indeed a elected democratic party, with dictatorships. We don't. And personally, I from the Step of the House, plead with you as representatives of the ideology of the state of state. We're the liberal party, and you're the prisoners. It is precisely because of this statism, which has prevailed with your encouragement, encouragement, claim, mania - if you like - of post-population, there have been in this place and pathogens. In this place there was a superfood state, which, unfortunately, was ineffective, because you - urban as you say - have never treated it as anything but a mechanism for redistributing incomes. Incomes acquired by those who creatively produced in this place, to give them to you as allowances where you want. That's why we're indebted to you, Minister. On the contrary, you do not make any distinction to these very delicate concepts, to this particular information, and you are trying through the propaganda that you have put into many of the ERT's programmes to create this kind of confusion in a people who have now decided on both your quality and your value as a government. But there's something else. This morning the Minister of Education, Mr. Gavroglou, made an announcement to the PCA of the Saints Anargyroe. Speaking to the students, he said that from time to time, lessons will be started at 9 a.m. and in this way "we will be sleeping a little more." He was indeed applauded by the children. This is our difference, Minister. Here it seems that you are the party that, as his vision, has to install throughout society "the ghost of great sleep". That's what you want to do. You want to "sleep" all Greeks and that's why you use vague words, information and concepts in the most confusing, more vague and more general form. That's our difference. We are the party of freedom and justice. We are the expression of liberalism, condemning any form of dictatorships, whether it is Pinochet or any other 'patterul'. We have no reason to get into these kinds of problems, which really confuse you many times. At a time when you want to appear today that you are a government that has a communist - as you said the other day - Prime Minister, but you are in the worst pain that can be experienced for such a Prime Minister. He has to take measures, which he does not believe, because he is not in line with his ideology. These are open market and free economy measures. They are measures of respect - unfortunately you do not always achieve it - the liberal institutions. That is why it is true what Herodotus once said about Plato: "It is a painful suffering for those in this humanity, many who have thought nothing to hold on." So you're falling apart. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You'll give me two minutes, Madam President. And if you want, I'll tell you another reason that proves why, instead of accurately using words and information, you prefer to limit language education support, as education does not inform education forms. Education is not information, education is social significance. You have, indeed, a very great intolerance to the fundamental social meanings that make up and keep this place within the course of his history united socially. Do you know why? That's what it looks like. I told you, Mr. Gavroglou is in the vision of great sleep. This is also apparent from a last decision to abolish Latin, that is to say, to abolish one of the two pillars, which is based on the entire system of the Western world, from which the eternal and unchangeable truths have emerged, which really give us the right today to say - and to you of course - that we are a free world, a civilized world. And that is not a little - and I shall conclude, Madam President - because, with regard to this ERT, which I described earlier, the information uses it artificially to draw political conclusions which do not apply, it is the following: one of the greatest democratic texts in the history of culture has been abolished, for example. It is the first reason he expressed on November 7, 63 BC. Ciceros in the Senate against Sergios Lefkius Katilina, this conspiracy, that is, who was then planning to take over power, murder senators and murder him himself, who was then Ciceros for the year '63. In this speech, there is a periodic phrase, the one you know about it, even though you may think that Latin is pointless work, as Mr Gavroglou believes, or is a lesson that is being taught to practice the student in papalia rather than incorporate it into the social meanings on which the modern world has been built. In this respect, therefore, there is this monumental phrase of Cicero: 'O tempora, o mores'. That's exactly what I'm dedicating to you and the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u89	You didn't say anything about the bill, but it's okay. The Minister has the floor to support an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Madam President. It is an amendment, a proposed provision, which relates to the Special Audit Committee of the Special Management of ERT Anonymity Company, which was abolished in 2013. The proposed provision allows the Committee to submit, in addition to the final conclusion and interim reports during the audit to the relevant Ministers, the Minister for Economic and Digital Policy. In this way, the effectiveness and transparency of the operation and work of this special committee shall be strengthened. This is therefore a necessary amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u91	Thank you. Please, Mr Theocharopoulos, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u92	Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today the Prime Minister from Strasbourg presented his government's success story to the European Parliament. And I'll explain what the problem is, because we've been talking about this many times here and inside. But when you go to the European Parliament, you also present the problems and the great difficulties your country has in order to be able to negotiate effectively. How are you going to negotiate effectively from now on, when you say everything is going well in the workplace, that you have reduced unemployment, that there is no problem? You are undermining the negotiation itself, especially where there are ears in the European Parliament, especially where there are political forces to listen. The second is that of course you do not speak with one logic in which you do not understand that you represent the whole country. You don't break the periods, you don't speak accusing political forces. The Prime Minister spoke of all the troubles of the country that came from 2010 to 2014 and by magic they solved the three years of your governance and completely forgot about the years 2004-2009, as if there were no two deficits in the country and the whole crisis, as if the memoranda were not here somehow in 2010, they did not come from a management in 2004-2009 and from a state-of-the-art. And, Mr. Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, there was also that five-year rule, especially in the two years 2007-2009, which greatly increased public spending and deficits. All of this was not there, because what the Prime Minister cared about today is how he would charge the forces of counter-population responsibility to the European Parliament, to which he should, however, be speaking as the country's representative. So he does not realize that there is no continuity of the state in this way. A second issue, before going on with what you said, Mr Minister, is the beginning of the school year. Wish us a good and creative year for all the students. Let's just say they need incisions at all levels of education, brave changes, so that she can perform her role. It's not right. As much as you want to present the self-evident as reform, there are serious problems in both primary and secondary education. We need to bend all political forces and national understanding - because it is a matter of national understanding - and not of populism, because it is about populism, when this morning indeed the Minister of Education, Mr.Gavroglou, has only told the students, is 'I will make you sleep more than an hour and come to class at nine in the morning'. Of course, he didn't say what he was doing with public services, with the people he works and sends his kids to school. Does the government intend to carry the hours everywhere? No, of course not. This is another announcement in the context of mocking ears without a plan without a plan. Unfortunately, this is how your Government moves at all levels. And I come to some of you mentioned today, Minister. Indeed, we need to have a programme for the debate. And because you spoke of the Change Movement as well and said that it must be programmed, we are constantly calling for a programme debate at all levels, on all issues - I would say - on one - the issues to discuss. Let us see some of you raised: you raised the issue of taxation. Is taxation unfair or not? It is. There must be brave changes? Yes! Didn't you say that you would abolish the ENVY and we were telling you how to move on to these changes, why do you need a plan with the partners? Now you're saying you're going to reduce HISBIA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u93	You voted for it, too. Didn't you vote for it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u94	I'll answer you. Now you're saying you're gonna cut him down. But last year, when the anti-population forces told you that we were going to reduce HNVIA and that it was intended to reduce HNVIA, Mr. Tsipras came out and said that it was populism.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u95	But will you vote for the reduction now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u96	You, your government, talked about the previous period only for dismantling. And because you referred to the movements, the "I don't pay" movement, I imagine that you were the ones who embraced it and Mr. Haritsis who just sat behind you. Talk the same way. And because you mention what the Change Movement does, I tell you that we are planning opposition. We haven't made a sterile opposition, even today in your bill. But can I tell you something else? We voted, when you brought in here the refund of some of the money that you took at that time to pensioners. We have passed the progressive legislation, the abolition of the compulsory requirement in the sharia, the cohabitation pact and all that Mr Tsipras referred to today in the European Parliament. He talked about his government. What government? After your partner, the ANELs, voted against all of this with their racist positions. We voted for them. And today you call and say what the Change Movement will vote and what is not. Who voted for all these instruments? I shall then speak on the subject of the permits you have referred to. Ladies and gentlemen, in the wake of the heavy statements made by the Prime Minister, with whom he once again wanted to highlight a virtual reality of success, we are discussing a bill that is in a positive direction today. We are voting for it at first reading, Minister. We don't exercise a sterile opposition, just like I said just before. But it also shows the negative features of the government's legislative work, in which we are opposition and in which we want to get answers. We are not surprised, of course, by the delays, the lack of timescales, the fragmentation, the dependency of implementing the arrangements on the adoption of many ministerial decisions, which we all know are delayed, even if they are issued - and, many times, their adoption - is not progressing - that the amendment of even recent laws by the government which strengthens the general lack of integrated drafting. These are practices that really represent the government. This government has essentially failed in all areas. This is a step forward. It has made some changes, but they do not constitute reforms. Unless we continue to abuse the term'reforms'. It is not reform, nor deregulation, nor simple regulations. The Government is baptising the voluntary policy on the recycling of poverty, expanding the under-represented and flexible forms of employment and employment insecurity, and at the same time calls on the other forces to respond to these changes in labour deregulation. In order to make it clear, in order to speak programmely, we want to reintroduce the acquis communautaire to work at this time, to be able to proceed with the negotiations with the European Union on the reintroduction of the acquis communautaire and, at the same time, to speak clearly, to say that at present there are wages of EUR 300 and 400. This reduces unemployment from 27% to 20% in figures. That's what we need to solve. These are not sustainable jobs. In order to bring the world back to our country, a healthy productive model of growth and a private economy of no state-owned, producing new jobs must be created. That's the only way we're gonna get out of the crisis, only that's how the markets can trust us, only that's how we're gonna get over today's dead ends. Mr Tsipras, of course, knows that he will not be in the government in the coming years to keep the promises. So it really doesn't cost him anything. And I'll tell you why I'm talking about impulse and an attempt to create confusion among the citizens? Because it goes to PPC and announces measures not for the next year, but measures for the next four years, which can cost EUR 3.5 billion, but concern four years and not only, for example, about 800 million, which is the cost of the measures of the year. This is how he tries to make fun of citizens again. He could do this if we had a two-month election period, but it has nothing to do with the IGC, in which he should actually say what he's going to do this year. As I mentioned at the beginning of my speech, the bill is in a positive direction. However, several open issues and several questions remain as to the completeness of the bill and the timing of its implementation. Of course, Mr Pappa, we cannot share your happiness in voting for a first 'Memorandum of Memorandum of Understanding', as you have been baptizing it in committees today. All that has ended is the loan contract. The measures and supervision are here. It's actually here. Since yesterday there is a check on the realities and future plans of your Government. Before I move on to some more specific issues, I would like to focus on another point. Minister, you welcome the new phase of television and the decision of the National Broadcasting Council, which proclaimed five licensees. Let me remind you that when we told you that it was unconstitutional to define without the competence of the National Broadcasting Council and that it was completely unconstitutional, you did not hear anyone. You proceeded with a process which was obviously unconstitutional. You said the Opposition should rethink it on everything that has been done since the recurring decisions of the S.H.I.E. One of the decisions of the S.H.E. is that you could not proceed without the National Broadcasting Council, as we told you at the time. Do I have to go on? Let me say that the night of the decision of the Council of State, the then competent Government representative denounced the Council of State and all its decisions in a turmoil that occurred that night. You may have forgotten, but we haven't. We've taken specific initiatives. I'm talking about us, the Democratic Reconciliation. I am not talking about other anti-politics forces that have not helped at the time to set up a National Broadcasting Council. You made a failed interconnection proposal again with the five years 2004-2009, Byron Polydora. We told you to drop her. You withdrew it. We made other suggestions. It was then set up on our own initiative, despite the New Democracy's initial refusal, the PSE. Our attitude finally led to the decommissioning. We wanted to take order in an anarchist broadcasting landscape, and that is what we tried to do from the start, but with the necessary seriousness and responsibility. We want there to be a television scene that is regulated by justice and by the decisions of the Council of State and by the PSE to perform its role. One more thing, because we're talking about ERT: You know, Minister, that I'm one of those executives who resigned from the government, they left the chair of power the day ERT closed and entered the black and you know very well that I know this whole route. In fact, in the next period, the antipopulation forces went to Agia Paraskevi, when it did not function in the way it was working. I want to tell you something. Do you now welcome the operation of the ERT? Do you think it works well? Do you think he doesn't have the previous diseases of the political system? Should we not make an independent genuine public broadcasting, which will not only be of interest to her to reproduce government propaganda, whatever it may be? Have we achieved anything in this change? Nothing at all. This is where a reform is needed. There was no such reform. In particular, with regard to the bill, in the short time I have, I will say that it is clear that granting this one-off amount is - you will allow me - a proof of the subsidised policy which the government is diligently maintaining. It remains the general question: why is it possible to separate the method followed between the regions and the rest of the territory and why has the open competition not been selected? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You told us that there could be no greater transparency than giving the citizen the opportunity to choose the provider of his choice. So the method used in the rest of the territory wasn't so transparent? Is that what you're telling us? With regard to the delegation of the General Secretariat for Telecommunications and Posts of the supervision, management, maintenance, exploitation and exploitation of the metropolitan fibre networks, which are owned by the LAGs and financed by national and/or Union resources, one wonders what evidence shows that the LAGs were ineffective in the management of the networks in order to pass this competence today to the Secretariat-General for Telecommunications and Post. Is it not a question of effectiveness, but of will and will for the government alone? The General Secretariat could be limited to supervision. The great and time-consuming demand for the Left is decentralisation and transfer of resources and responsibilities. Not even a new competence has you transferred to self-government, because 'I am conferring powers' means 'I give and I do not have absolute control'. Not only do you not transfer, but you also remove existing responsibilities. The annual grant of 1 million euros by the Greek Space Agency from the reserve of the National Committee for Telecommunications and Posts, which will be able to be modified by a ministerial decision, is also a problem. Why is that? I suppose that upwards will be changed, as, as you say, Minister, the budget in committees is pitiful and it cannot be a serious space policy with this EUR 1 million budget per year. Probably so. But shouldn't you, because of the well-known circumstances, build priorities? Have we covered all our earthly needs, so that we can make available such funds for space? The main concern also arises in reducing the qualifications of the candidates for Heads of the Press and Communication Offices. On the one hand, we are talking about a position of high standard and essential quality and on the other, you are reducing the required qualifications. It's called equilibrium downwards. Ladies and gentlemen, in the last few months we have actually witnessed the government's route from the Zappionian figure in the communication show of Ithaca. He was missing the decor of Kammenos, but it was practically the same. This is the greatest proof of the fact that the crisis is here, it is deep, it is not only economic, it is mainly social and cultural, and the real exit from the crisis is not an easy case, because it requires not only political change - it is not enough - but it also needs ruptures with established attitudes and behaviours, the ruptures that this government has invoked to take power and not only did it, but it has maintained and broadened the attitudes it condemned. But political change and national understanding are the only way to overcome today's deadlocks. It must be done not today, not now, but yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u97	Thank you. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA Mr Xydakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u98	Thank you very much, Madam President, and I would also like to thank the colleagues who have presented today at the 1st Summer Session and my fellow Parliamentary Representatives, among other things, for the comments and questions they have put to the Chamber and to me personally. We should continue this dialogue. Mr Theocharopoulos and Mr Javaras had some objections about the Prime Minister's presence today in the Council of Europe before Members. I did not quite understand Mr Javarra's objections, because they show an ignorance of the political situation in Europe at the moment. Alexis Tsipras, of course, speaks primarily as Prime Minister of a country affected by the crisis before the European Parliamentary Representatives of the European peoples. It speaks of this long adventure and of how it tries to move back to the formal end of the Memorandum of Conduct put to us by the European Partners. There is also this interest, this contradiction, the fundamental conflict at the heart of the European Union, where the company, Europe's partnership can also be held in prison. Greece, Portugal, Ireland, Cyprus. People hurt, Mr. Javarra. They didn't enjoy it. However, the Greek Prime Minister also happens to be the leader of the Greek Left and perhaps the most anticipated in power of the European Left. I would remind you that in Europe, left-wing governments exist only in Greece and Portugal. There is the great coalition, the ghost of the great SPD, the largest left party in the 19th and 20th century, which is dragged behind by Mrs Merkel. Mrs Merkel drags behind the AfD. Mr. Javarra, you're losing the big picture. At the moment, the great anguish in the democratic world, in democratic Europe, in social democracy, in the centre-left, in the left-wing democratic Europe, in the Republican Conservative Europe is the anguish about the rise of neo-fascism. Where are you going with this? Do you understand that? Tsipras speaks on behalf of the democratic left, democratic Europe vis-à-vis the Kurts, Orban, neo-fascists who go up to Sweden, neo-fascists who perish in the Netherlands, Austria, Italy and the neo-fascists who are indictees and candidates for convicts in Greece. Put this on your account. Put it too, Mr Theocharopoulos, because you represent the party of the Democratic Left in the end rather than the party of the political neoliberal 'governance', nothing, bankers and technocrats to govern the countries without political legitimacy. Consider this because it is at stake. And today, Mr. Tsipras' political speech can also have personal features, as it was a kind of personal justice, because it was Europe's proverb in 2015 and now it is a leader who lifted his people up on his back and talks with other European leaders and Prime Ministers. How many of those who were in January 2015 are now in the European Council of leaders? Yunker, who recognized Tsipras, is on his way out. Renchy who supported him disappeared to Italy. There's been a lot of things. However, in Mr Tsipras' speech today, I would like you to keep this. It's September 11th. Tsipras made a reminder to Salvador Alende, the great personality of the socialist fantasy of the great defeated who leave a victory. Your colleague reminded Pinochet of the man who was throwing people off the helicopters.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u99	What does that have to do with anything? Come on!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u100	Ignorant? A spoonful?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u101	Get serious now!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u102	It all counts in politics.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u103	What does this have to do with it? Stop it! Stop it! That's how much you've been slobbling about?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u104	Mr. Javarra, tell your colleague that. I didn't interrupt you. Be more worldly. Madam President, protect me why the world's Mr. Javaras is interrupting me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u105	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u106	There's no need for protection here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u107	You said something else about dictatorship and liberalism. The left hand delivery to SYRIZA and Renewal Left is a tradition that emerges from the conflict with stalinism, from the conflict with the state. He was born in '68, along with the Soviet invasion in Prague. It is born of a conflict about the national and European nature of communism. He is born together with the movements of Eurocommunism. It is born with the great ideas, the great fantasies that have not been implemented, but have fertilized European thought, political thought. He's born with the great ideas of Enrico Bernlinguer, Lucio Magri, Luciana Castellina. We were together in Syros the day before yesterday and we were talking about these issues. These are the traditions of the Greek refreshing left and with them they blocked the Greek political life and the Greek political thought. You know that. But what you probably don't know or get away from you, escapes you, is that the tradition of barbaric clientism and barbaric deprivation is the tradition of the right-wing regime, not just from the years of the Middle War in conflict with Venizelos modernisation, but in post-war, in the post-war state. They are the vulgarities of former donors who became members of the EPE. The "Papadopoulous" from Kilkis and Drama. Here they were denounced by both the central parliamentarians and the EDPS. It is the vulgarity of all the working-life of the state and the democratic state by a party-state. Giannakopoulos and Alekos Sakelarios had neither the SAD nor the Left when they wrote "Mavroyaluro". The parties to the ruling NRA had their minds in mind. And in the years of post-population, with the mania of the state of state, they accused Constantine Karamanlis and Anastassis Papaleguras of stalling the companies of Andrea, one side behind the other. So when you start talking about confiscations you should look in the mirror of your own resignation. And after looking at the mirror of the state of state, the clienthood and the laborious abuse of the democratic state by the parties and the guardians with the manures that took votes in the cafes of mountain villages, go see also in the mirrors of the family rule, the nepotism of the second and third generation, the underpopulations and baronets taken by the poppy rings to Poppa and the electoral clients. And see also the tradition of the pigeons and neo-fascists who are embroiled not only in the fringes now, but also in the heart of your own party. Our party, the left-wing party, is the party of freedom, community and free-thinking. He has paid blood both from the totalitarianisms of Stalinism and from the totalitarianisms of so-called 'liberal strife winners'. Lessons of freedom racing are not going to be on the left and on the refreshing left! I thank you for the reasons you gave me to put a few things in place.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u108	Thank you. Now Mr. Panayotarus has the floor since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Madam President. As in 2001 there was the terrorist attack on the Twin Towers in America, and it was the occasion of a war that was supposed to be in the Western world against Islamic terrorism. But rather all this was hypocritical because in the course we saw that Islamists and jihadists were not on the ground, but they were fighting all those who persecuted them, and in particular certain states, such as Iraq, Libya, Syria, Iran and others, who did not let every jihadist, every Islamist. And why do we say that? Because these days in Syria, in Idlib, there has been a huge battle, a great attack by those who are really fighting the Islamics and the jihadists and who Greece is learning, we can see it - and it seems from the statements of its officials for many years now - that it is not on the side of those who will crush the Islamics, but basically it is on the side of those who support them. In this case we see with various pretexts the United States, NATO and the rest of the Western world, which has been irreversibly affected by the Islamics, with them, and Greece, with the frying "ELL", involved in difficult, fertile waters. The same hypocrisy, of course, is seen by your government. How much melted "Nike" and "Timberland" you had consumed, melted in the marches to and from the American Embassy when you called "people's killers, Americans"! And when the Police and the MATs made a wall and prevented you from approaching the Embassy, you named them as "pats, pigs, murderers" and used various other worldly surnames. And of all this, you have reached the point of turning into the most unsuccessful policies, I stress, 'partners' of your pimps, who now have new names: the United States, the European Union, Germany, Turkey. And when we say "successful partners" we mean that you don't even collect anything about everything you give and the horns, the pimp gives them elsewhere: the Skopje, the Turks and elsewhere. We have seen your geopolitical movements, sad, indifferences, when you deported some Russians, you say, diplomats, because they have done what they have done in the interior of the country, while we see the Ambassador of the United States going around everywhere on Greek territory, making statements, giving directions, paralysis or anything else that is not considered to be interference in the interior of the country. We saw for the second time not giving a visa to the Metropolitan of St. Petersburg, who wanted to go to Mount Athos. We have seen your incredible concessions, which will be your end, to the skopje, which you have given everything, land and water to the Skopje, just because your new political pimps have told you. You will continue to do this because the side effects on the scop, where Albanians are involved, will continue with the various issues and conflicts we have with the Albanians. You will take down the northern continental issue, and from everything that shows, you are about to give, to grant many rights to the Albanians, to the Chambians and to those who have been hosting our country for decades. As for the Turks, we see what is happening in Thrace with the mushrooms, with the recognition of the substance of the Turkish language, with the fact that they perpetuate as much as before from the Turkish Consulate of Komotini, which should have been closed yesterday. All of this shows your endurance and even without any consideration. So, as you were telling them, as Mr Tsipras had said in an interview in Mytilini in 2008, I will testify for the Minutes - to disarm them. You called for the disarmament of the police and the abolition of the MATs. From this point you have come to have them and them along with the 6th Fleet, with the drones, with various aircraft, guarding you at the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki from the actions, from the "love" acts of the entire Greek people, especially Northern Greece, for what you have done so far on the so-called scorpion issue and protecting you from the events of "love". [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Here we cannot comment on what Mr Voutsis said, "There is no Macedonian language. What is your problem?’ There is no Macedonian language, just as there is no Thracian language, as there is no mainland language. There are local dialects and idioms throughout Greece. Macedonian language does not exist on the other side of the border, because it is quite simply what the Skopjes are talking about, who want to rob everything from history, our tradition and not only our tradition, but also territorially - because it is the next step - it is Slavic and only Slavic and they recognize it. It was an unfortunate statement and extremely anti-national of the President of Parliament. It was unfortunate, too, that Prime Minister Tsipras' statement, who said Macedonia was geographically identified. That's butter on the bread of our neighbors. It is something they have been using for decades and through it they have been trying to achieve all the rest. Unfortunately, your ideological anti-national complex does not let you think either of national, rational, geopolitical or geostrategic. At a given moment, the Skopje are in absolute need of Greece and you are giving them the ok without any consideration to join NATO or for other reasons. You could have solved this question by imposing a name that would not have affected the history and interests of our country at all, but you do not do that because you do not already own it. Since you do not have patriotism and consciousness - internationalists are, after all, advertising it - you are not interested in all of this. Many protested in Thessaloniki the other day and described them as far-right, fascists, trumpets. From what everyone saw - not of course from ERT, but from anywhere else - except those who might have put photographs of five years, decades or anything else, they were elderly, elderly, families, children, priests. So, so far, they have not actually come out on the streets after three and a half memorials to protest about the cuts in pensions, their wages, for HNPH, for whatever else, but they have come out on national issues, what you, or your American patronage, have not predicted in your design, nor anyone else, because - we repeat - as internationalists, you do not understand it. We heard a lot of good statements, but it was fun to make a statement from a SYRIZA official of Mr. Trigazis. Mr Trigazis said: "We have no problem with all Americans. There are also American workers." They're the ones you brought to make the different deals! We're filing it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Remember a 2014 line, when your co-pilot, Mr. Kammenos, tweeted and protested why some trolleymen prevented him from entering the DUT. We put this in the Minutes too. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We arrive at the Prime Minister at the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki. There was a lot of trouble, delay, inhalations by tons of chemicals you spilled for those who were inside the ICU. It was what you once built, that you wanted to ban, abolish or anything else. We saw an impulse, which had no end. Of course, in their overwhelming majority of all that you say, you will return your dues to military, judiciary and others, they are court judgments of the C.E. More specifically, which you are simply obliged to return. No matter how many of us chew, even they have perceived your desperate attempt to present some things that will happen anyway, as works and days of your government. You are all talking about it, saying it is the first bill after we left the memorials and you kept talking about leaving the memorials, but there are the laws and what you have voted on in previous years, the commission and control for more than ninety-and-a-half years of this country, or until the payment of more than seventy percent of the debt, which is not finished. We'll always have the pimps over our head. The permanent NSM auditors for the debt will now be permanently installed. Perhaps this will come and cheaper than going and paying for the various 'HILTON's. All of this, but also the permanent custody, but they say. We heard things about the insurance and the Prime Minister and other members of your Government, with what was said the other day, the unfortunate statement, which makes you the joy of every necropsy, about the life expectancy at seventy, as if you were right, after seventy, the elderly will die, so if we do something bacaalistic calculations, the insurance will fall short. Of course, in addition to this tragic thing you said, clearly and unequivocally, it is also the fact that you do not understand the failure of your system, because there will be another seventy and worst of all, that there will be no twenty and thirty to feed the insurance system, very simply because most of them left abroad and will not be here anymore, because there will be no growth and there will be no jobs with your demographic collapse and neither will the new Greeks who want to bring this to our home. For the banks, which we have heard things, the Prime Minister's statement says not how we will facilitate them artificially, but how the banks will facilitate private initiative. We have two comments to make: As we have read and you will also read it, the National Bank will finance - it says - the new buyers of the IPCC. So they have no money and the National Bank will give them the recapitalized money from the Greek people. Nice private initiative! It reminds me of Koskottas who bought the Bank of Crete with no money and went after paying for the Bank's money. Nice business deals! Of course, here too, we can see how nice the banks work and the new loans to the new Republic, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy! In 2016 you pinched another 25m euros and added them to the other 225m euros phase that he wears to the Greek people along with the other 200m of PASOK. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Allow me, Madam President, to use my dentistry as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u110	Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u111	At the same time, Mr Georgiadis said there had to be a haircut, things had to be done to eliminate these EUR 225 million. On the contrary, Golden Dawn, despite the fact that we have no funding, we have absolutely nothing, we owe no one, we have no loans and we are a third political force. You are bragging about unemployment at 19%, but you are thoroughly forgetting the fact that half-time is now tending to become the vast majority of all those working, the fact that unemployment is not counting on the long-term unemployed and the fact that some four hundred thousands of Greek citizens have left - were unemployed here - and now they are not accounted for. Well, as far as development is concerned, we will be tabling the proposals of the Golden Dawn which, Mr Papapas, you will not hear this evening from the IGC where Mr Michaliokos will make his speech, because it seems once again that ERT, which is paid by all Greek citizens, will not play the speech of Mr Michaliakos, with various pretexts and various excuses. As for the New Democracy, Mr. Mitsotakis will go to IDH and he will promise with rocks. It says "we will reduce you, when and wherever." We have heard Mr Javarra say that it is the private initiative party. Yes, with the hundreds of thousands of assignments he made over the years or the competitions you have made to sell out the property of the Greek people and competitions with only one interest, as if we were North Korea. Nice private initiative, gentlemen of the New Democracy, whether it is about the Greek, whether it is about 'COSCO', whether it is about 'FRAPPORT', whether it is about trains or anything else! And don't forget, as you speak of your private initiative, your best investors, the micronomists, who with the PSI you sent them to the unscrupulous, the grave, you humiliated them. You said you were the party of justice. Remember, of course, the nice Justice Party you were with the "Panathenamics" phoned or Samaras calling "Panathenamics" to send to prison the Members of the Golden Dawn, or Babi himself who took the Chief of the Primary for Mr. Michaloniakos in no way and not all of this. Not to say about the "Macedonian" where you wish today's majority will pass it and not to fall this hot potato into your hands, because then you're done. For the bill, our rapporteur said what he was going to say. I shall end with what Mr Tsipras said this morning in the European Parliament, where he has expressed the alarm, neo-fascism, racism, xenophobia, nationalism and everything else. All these gentlemen in Europe can no longer see that you, together with the New Democracy, - because you are the two sides of the same failed, lost currency - the Europe of bankers, stateless people, NGOs and loan sharks ends. The Europe of the peoples and homes is coming! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u112	The last speaker is Mr Karathanasopoulos, Parliamentary Representative from the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Madam President. Finally, he rises curly in this Chamber and you will rise to a helmet because the more you will look like New Democracy and SYRIZA in particular - the more you will shout. And if this assessment of the JRC is excessive, let us look at these and not talk in general terms. First of all, there are no specific differences, but there are also more general differences in the logic and tactics of the government in the television scenery, for example. What did the government do about the TV scenery? A rescheduling of the "pitta" to support specific business groups might be necessary in order to create a more favourable environment, to facilitate partnerships between business groups and, of course, to form a state ERT which will be a livanist of each government and today's and tomorrow's. From this point of view, we have a remodelling and redistribution of the pie in the television scenery, but also on the other hand, since the competition for licences has gone ahead, support for television companies, and even support in an unprecedented way. Didn't you reduce the advertising tax from 20% to 5%? What does that mean, practically? That you'll give them back multiples in the decade of what they'll give you for licenses. If this isn't reinforcement from the back door of the canalarchs, whom you yelled at before, then what else can it be considered? Like also the subsidies that you have in this amendment for audiovisual productions, which are even greater subsidies. Of course, we are not talking about artists and creators, but about companies that exploit the work of authors and artists, they are subsidised. In other words, you are subsidising and supporting the production companies and not, of course, the creators and artists. Of course, this bill does nothing but be the cheese on the facelight, the 110 euros. And what's the lens? The customers he prepares for the four hundred or five hundred thousand, those who are today excluded from being able to watch television. You prepare them as a client for the providers that will proceed in the next period. So these are your strategic choices, how you actually support business interests. The next day, announced by the Prime Minister and in an official manner by the Thessaloniki International Exhibition, does not change for workers and people from the previous day. For example, the memorials may have been finished, but the memorials are burdening the Greek people and the workers. All the Memorandum Laws apply. No rival, anti-grass Memorial Law has changed. The privileged anti-grassroots measures, for the new reduction in pensions, for the new duty-free reduction and above all in force, remain the bloody primary surpluses until at least 2060, which are exactly the mark of the anti-grass attack that will escalate, as well as enhanced supervision of whether the government fulfils the objectives and commitments. After all, Mr Regling's statement yesterday leaves no doubt about it. What did the Prime Minister stress in the IGC - and not only in the IGC - but also today in the European Parliament? That we will continue and respect the commitments and agreements that we have made towards lenders, the European Union, the International Monetary Fund and the others. These reforms, capitalist restructurings, in essence, do nothing but create what the Prime Minister stressed at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition: an even more favourable environment for business groups. What does it mean even more favourable business environment? That the competitiveness of Greek businesses should be shielded. How do you shield her? With tax exemptions, reductions in business taxation and, in a challenging and scandalous way, by overcompensation - you say - of budgetary revenue. Who pays this surplus? The workers, the pensioners, the populace. And you're redistributing from the least poor, for the benefit of the rich, for the benefit of the capitalists, through this process. Such a classic, deeply anti-popular policy makes, through the subsidies, the increased subsidies you give to entrepreneurs and their investment projects - the amendment to which I referred before there is no question - through the creation and development of new fields of action for large capital and for overcompensated capital, which is, through privatisations, where you are, of course, selling very cheaply, precisely to ensure and shield profitability. The main factor, however, is to shield the competitiveness of business groups from the increase in the exploitation of workers. What the Prime Minister says about the recovery of work is an 'empty shirt' and a huge mockery for the working class itself. Why are they an 'empty shirt'? Because you have maintained and maintained the whole anti-Semitism that New Democracy has shaped with PASOK - all of you have changed nothing - which has shaped working jungle conditions, has further strengthened employers' arbitrage and terrorism in the workplace. And where all of this doesn't hit the labour movement, there's the ax of justice. Any strike or almost every strike is declared illegal and abusive. And not only have you maintained this specific anti-legislative legal framework, but you have strengthened it further. How did you strengthen it? You have supported it, firstly, through the reactionary overturns in the insurance system, where on substance you have abolished the social character of insurance, and secondly, through the major obstacles you put in the declaration of the strike. So here's how you shield business groups even more! And now, when you have done your own, you have adopted Brutsi, which is the abstraction of the anti-virtual laws, - there is no more anti-virtual measure than Brutsi - what do you say? You say that the minimum wage will be determined by government decision. So the negotiation, which comes between workers and employers, which is the result of the hard struggle, class and racing of workers to determine the minimum wage, throw it into the basket of unusable workers. The government will, in particular, determine the minimum wage. What will these criteria be? Firstly, ensuring competitiveness, so capitalist profitability and, secondly, level of unemployment. The higher unemployment, the lower wages, as if wages were to blame for the unemployed, thus acquitting employers, who are basically their own choice to close down businesses and move them elsewhere to win. In this way, in essence, you are slandering the labour movement when it calls for wage increases. So whatever adjustments you make to the minimum wage from 1-1-2019 - you have already rushed to state, not to scare employers, that you will simultaneously reduce insurance contributions for young workers, 50% and 100% for two years - on the one hand, they are supposed to give, but on the other they will get more. It is a direct support for business action. The same is true of sectoral contracts. The famous expansion of sectoral contracts, when the vast majority of sectors have sectoral contracts. Why doesn't he? Because it is the creation of the legislative framework, which you leave it intact and when employers do not come to the debates. Secondly, when it is at the disposal of employers, if the employers deposited a record, to show 50% plus one. Because if it doesn't have 50% plus one, it doesn't extend. On the other hand, however, it is well known that any sectoral contracts exist - with a leading example of tourism, where there is a sectoral contract and only applies to a few hotels - what is it? They do not cover all those, who are seasonal, opportunityal workers in the flexible form of work. There are fourteen different employment contracts in tourism. It is the work of flexibility in the labour market and every one of their imaginations is wrathful. So neither the few workers nor those employed in different flexible forms of employment, nor the contract staff, nor much more, the hired workers, which all these categories are a very large part of the workforce. Nor are they covered by the sectoral contract. When, for example, 50% of young workers are some employees and are paid EUR 378 a month, they are mixed. That's the reality they're experiencing. From this point of view, therefore, it is clear that with the attack, which you are making against the working class, you also want to shield the competitiveness of business groups. The only way for capitalist development, and for armoring, is to have a prerequisite. What is the one and only, essential prerequisite? A cheap, flexible, disposable workforce without rights. To be clear, any improvement in the position of the working class, any recovery of losses will not come from any good mood of the government, whatever government, but will come only through their own struggle, from the escalation of the struggles, from the strengthening of the class orientation, focusing on the real opponent. Because, as I said at the beginning, the more you look like each other, the more you yell and you fight. On the one hand, New Democracy is making all its hatred against the working class, against the rights of workers, against the demands of the working class. It follows, of course, the PASOK on this downhill. What does he want to do? It wants, of course, in conjunction with your own propaganda to reduce the demands of the working class, to call on the workers and the folk layers to suit the various crumbs, not to claim, not to demand. That's why you're slandering the labour movement. Secondly, it's a convenient controversy for you. And the designations of junta, etc. Good they do you and they give you features, which you don't have. Like, for example, that you're communists. If that's possible! You have been interrupted by communism for decades. In fact, it was a conscious choice to interrupt with communism. At first you became a Euro-Communist party - supposedly - to confuse the world, but slandering the Soviet Union and the communist movement. And when this was overturned, you did not hesitate to shove symbols, ideals and visions and to throw them in the basket of unusable. In fact, to support the various imperialists. And today this support is returning to the wealthy, becoming signifiers of the Americans and NATO in the region. I am talking about the Tsipras Government, which even called Trump, the President of the United States, 'devilly good'. And from this point of view, they are slandering with this criticism of communists and the communist movement and the JRC, which is the real opponent. In fact, today your government spokesman, to give once again credentials, what did he do? It has again brought the European Union's reactionary theory of two extremes, speaking of integrations. There he became the hunt for you to become excellent from the bourgeoisie class and the various representatives of the imperialist organizations, that is to say, to remake the most imperialist theory "more than two extremes". In this respect, then, conflict is convenient, not only for them, but also because they force you to bring reactionary reforms more quickly. The Parliamentary spokesman for PASOK, KINAL, as today, Mr Theocharopoulos, said to return to the labour market the European acquis. Will you tell us what the European acquis is? Are the Schroeder measures in the early 2000s? Is it the measures your friend McCron is taking today in France? Is the counter-measures in Italy or the Netherlands? This is what you copy and apply here in Greece. This is the European acquis, job insecurity and cheap workers. In this respect, Mr Tsipras' speech today did not surprise us in the European Parliament. It was a monumental speech of acquittal of the European Union and its lupus alliance. Indeed, it has come to slander every criticism and every voice against the European Union, smacking the criticism of the Communists with the extreme right-wing groups and the 'grubpuscula', which are also choices of the system itself, to use them at the right time. In this respect, therefore, it is clear, ladies and gentlemen, and I thank you for the time you have given me - that the people are not going to see a white day if they are not going to get locked up by the millstones of the system, if they do not want to manipulate this policy and the interests of capital, which they make every day more and more black. And from this point of view, he must organize his struggle, collide with the real opponent, trust and support the JRC. Of course, for the bill much more detailed and complete our rapporteur spoke of both the principle and the articles and the amendments. And we shall also be voting in favour of it. We shall vote'residences' in the first place. In the articles, too, we will be placed in particular.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u114	Thank you. Does any of the boys want to take a second time? Nobody.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u115	Madam President, I ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u116	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u117	I have a simple legal improvement. At the end of the title of the draft law, the words ‘and other provisions’ are added.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information is adjourned: 'Access to permanent residents of areas outside television coverage at Greek free-range television stations and other provisions'. Questioned by the Department: Can the bill be accepted in principle?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u119	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u120	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u121	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u122	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u123	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u124	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u125	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u126	The ANELs have made the statement that they are voting in the 'HAI' principle. Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information: ‘Access to permanent residents of areas outside television coverage at Greek free television channels and other provisions’ was accepted in principle by a majority. We are entering the motion for a resolution. The ANELs have stated that they are also voting for the bill on the articles. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 1 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u127	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u128	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u129	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u130	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u131	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u132	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u133	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u134	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u135	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u136	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u137	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u138	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u139	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u140	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u141	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u142	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u143	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u144	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u145	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u146	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u147	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u148	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u149	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u150	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u151	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u152	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u153	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u154	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u155	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u156	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u157	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u158	Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 5 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u159	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u160	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u161	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u162	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u163	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u164	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u165	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u166	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u167	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u168	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u169	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u170	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u171	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u172	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u173	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u174	Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 7 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u175	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u176	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u177	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u178	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u179	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u180	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u181	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u182	Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 8 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u183	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u184	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u185	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u186	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u187	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u188	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u189	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u190	Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u191	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u192	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u193	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u194	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u195	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u196	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u197	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u198	Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 10 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u199	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u200	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u201	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u202	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u203	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u204	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u205	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u206	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u207	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u208	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u209	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u210	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u211	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u212	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u213	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u214	Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 12 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u215	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u216	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u217	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u218	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u219	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u220	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u221	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u222	Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 13 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u223	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u224	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u225	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u226	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u227	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u228	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u229	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u230	Article 13 has therefore been accepted as majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 14 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u231	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u232	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u233	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u234	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u235	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u236	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u237	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u238	Article 14 has therefore been accepted as majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 15 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u239	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u240	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u241	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u242	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u243	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u244	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u245	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u246	Article 15 was therefore accepted as being majority. The ANELs have stated that they are voting 'NEI' and in all amendments. Will the section be asked: is the amendment accepted under a general number 1737 and a special number 45 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u247	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u248	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u249	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u250	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u251	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u252	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u253	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u254	Therefore, the amendment under general number 1737 and a special 45 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Questions to the Department: Can the amendment be accepted under a general number 1738 and a special number 46 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u255	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u256	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u257	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u258	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u259	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u260	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u261	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u262	Therefore, the amendment under general number 1738 and a special 46 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Questions to the Department: Can the amendment be accepted under a general number 1739 and a special number 47 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u263	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u264	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u265	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u266	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u267	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u268	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u269	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u270	Therefore, the amendment under general number 1739 and a special 47 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Asked by the Department: Can the amendment be accepted under a general number of 1740 and a special number 48 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u271	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u272	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u273	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u274	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u275	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u276	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u277	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u278	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1740 and a special 48 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Will the section be asked: is the amendment accepted under a general number 1741 and a special number 49 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u279	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u280	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u281	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u282	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u283	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u284	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u285	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u286	Therefore, the amendment under general number 1741 and a special 49 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Questioned by the Department: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u287	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u288	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u289	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u290	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u291	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u292	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u293	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u294	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information: ‘Access to permanent residents of areas outside television coverage at Greek free television channels and other provisions’ was accepted in principle and on the articles. Questioned by the Department: Can the bill be accepted in the whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u295	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u296	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u297	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u298	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u299	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u300	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u301	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u302	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information: ‘Access to permanent residents of areas outside television coverage at Greek free television channels and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u303	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the Chamber to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u304	The Department therefore granted the requested authorisation. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S1-commons.u305	With the consent of the Department at 15.07. the meeting is closed for Tuesday, 11 September 2018 at 18.00, on the subject of the work of the Department: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
