ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS We will begin with the first with number 1617/8-5-2018, a topical question of the second-cycle question of the Aetolokarnania Coalition of the Radical Left, Maria Triantafyllou, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The need to finance ICT equipment (information and communication technologies) in the education and laboratory equipment of the ESDP and IEK through the NRW 2014-2020 in the schools with responsibility of the Regional Government of Western Greece". The Deputy Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs will answer Mr. Dimitrios Baxvanakis. Mrs Triantafyllo has the floor for two minutes to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Good evening, everyone. Minister, the issue we are discussing today, namely that the Region of Western Greece has not been included in the list of funding and planning of laboratory equipment for schools, has dealt with the educational community of all three counties. Announcements have been received from ELME and Achaia and Elias. The Regional Council has dealt with the question - and rightly there have been reactions and protests, because it is the only region left out. All other regions of the country have been included in the breakdown, funding and programming table for school laboratory equipment and some regions have already completed the tenders. These school units have received the equipment, while some are even more ahead of a state of contract and consultation. It is worth noting here that the school units in the region of Western Greece have about a decade to renew their equipment. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll see you in the dentext in general about technological education and the role and the need for this equipment, etc. Because, as the regional director answered in his question, he fits, he says, gloomy about the question at the Ministry, I ask the Ministry today: Why, first of all, is this the only region outside this planning, this programme? Who has not complied with the procedure and who is responsible? And on this point of responsibility, Minister, I would like to receive a very specific answer because, in my opinion, it is extremely tiring and extremely dangerous for anyone not to take responsibility for all the problems and for the particular problem we are discussing now and for a number of issues that arise, such as, for example, the floods, where there is a ball in my mind. We don't deserve that. We must answer specifically who is responsible and say in the second part what is going to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u4	Fellow, as you said, about two months ago, the Ministry of Education, and in particular the NSRP's final structure announced the funding programme for the equipment of the schools workshops, whether they relate to digital equipment for all levels, whether it relates to equipment for ESDP laboratories, professional high school schools. The amount of the budget for the guarantees was therefore more than EUR 68 million. Unfortunately, as you said, and you are right, the Region of Western Greece was absent from this list. The responsibility - I want to be clear - belongs to the region. The final structure of our Ministry, namely the Department of Material Infrastructure, submitted its proposal for the Region of Western Greece, as it submitted for all the regions of the country, the final date that the Management Authority of the Region of Western Greece had set in its relevant call, i.e. on 5 September 2016. Unfortunately, however, the system was closed, unknown when. I repeat, therefore, that the competent department of the Ministry has submitted its proposal to us in good time. Unfortunately, however, the system of the region of Western Greece was closed. But I do not want to stay in this technical detail. I would like us to move on to the debate on the responsibility of all those who exercise public authority. And when I say public authority, I mean public responsibility. So those of us who are responsible for a job, because the Greek people have given us this responsibility, we must have a concern. For formal or non-formal reasons the proposal could not be tabled, although it was submitted on the relevant dates. We should all be concerned about the fact that a region is absent from the relevant list. We should be concerned long before the relevant information from the Ministry of Education is made public. We should all have - not just in the region of Western Greece, but I say 'all of us' - worry when we see that something is wrong. For some reasons the proposal has not been tabled, it does not appear that it exists at all. We have the assurance that the Regional Education Department, our Ministry's competent department in western Greece, was in constant contact with the relevant Management Authority of the Region. So I say, even though for formal reasons it was not possible or did not respond to the system or any other reason why you say, when we have all seen that something was wrong, as our services were concerned, I think the services in the region of Western Greece should have done. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] It seemed they weren't worried. Of course, we will be given the opportunity to say that things have been corrected today. The situation has been restored. The schools of Western Greece will not be left out of funding and equipment, but the relative frustration has been and one year is lost, which is over one year old. We're counting on that. It is our burden on all of us, each with the responsibility that lies with him.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Triantafel, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, I have received the answer: there is responsibility, particularly in the region, but you tell me that it is shared with everyone. First of all, in my opinion, they are not formal reasons. We cannot call for formal reasons that a programme has not worked, etc. Because you said quite rightly when something's not working, we have to cure it. And we must not heal it when regional consultants see it backwards - and they do well to see - ELME, teachers - that is their job - the trade unionists, all of our MPs, etc. I talked about responsibility. And I'm not talking about a typical responsibility, so it's all from now on. Of course, it's important that there's gonna be a cure. For I have to tell you, Minister, that the image of both the PSAs and, in general, the picture of laboratory equipment in schools, at least I am able to know - I am a Member of this House - is really very bad. I don't want to say anything else. I must tell you that the questions raised by all teachers and students and parents are racing. We cannot also talk about productive reconstruction. We cannot talk about upgrading technological education when we cannot do simple and self-evident. And that is a huge issue. It is important that you have spoken of specific responsibilities. But again, if we can't do the self-evident thing, we have a huge problem. Let me say one more thing. Look, we're teachers. You, in fact, have served technological education for many years. Generally speaking, the history of technological education in our country is a story of struggles and claims between the world of work, mainly, and a minority that wanted other things. We must say that public education in general has been severely affected, as has technical education in our country. And he's still having blows. In what sense? The educational history of our country, unfortunately, is an endless series of harmonisations with other European countries, with these famously imported good practices and education and society in general. You know very well that a lot of Greek people's money has been spent in these famous comparative studies that codify concrete measures, concrete reforms, which Greek education should take every time. And basically, in my view, what are they doing? They literally degrade the educational measures from the substance which is what the country's historical, cultural and political conditions are. Why am I saying all this? I know you understand me. So once there has been such a dismantling of public education over the past few years, it is now incomprehensible - we say again - that we do not have a simple job to do. This is where I want to be absolute. In any case, I would like to say this - because I know that you have met the district manager and there is actually a cure - to tell us a few things about this. There is a particular study that has been carried out, which says it takes about EUR 4 million to meet the needs - and these are real, not plastic - in relation to the equipment for the regional schools. I would therefore really like to hear your answer. I am, above all, interested in giving an essential solution, at least on this issue. I know that there is a huge range of problems across all public education and technical education. It is another-class issue to talk about goals and how to move forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. My dear colleague, I think it is unnecessary to mention the extreme need to strengthen laboratory equipment at all levels of education, but in particular, as you said, the need to modernise laboratory equipment in vocational training, multi-substantiated vocational training. The whole educational world knows what situation our government has found, a situation not only zero but on negative ground. The educational world knows what problems we have been asked to face, what injustices in the past we have been called upon to restore and restore them. And we've set up vocational training on her feet. It was therefore a great surprise for us and for the speaking much more, because it comes from Western Greece, that it was the only region that was not included in the list of funds for laboratory equipment. Apart from being generally concerned, we have also taken political initiatives. We contacted the Region of Western Greece. The speaker contacted the regional director directly, while the Regional Education Director of Western Greece has already sent a letter to the regional director and to the three regional directors, pointing out the fact and sending them an update of the needs for modernising the laboratory equipment of schools in western Greece. The amount of needs, with the choices made by our Regional Directorate, amounts to about 4.20,000 euros. I had a meeting with the Director of the Ministry last month and we agreed that additional resources would be found for these needs and that a sum of 4,000 euros was actually found and that immediately the next fortnight will be reopened by the Management Authority of the Region of Western Greece, where the final NSRF structure of our Ministry will submit the proposal as notified by the Regional Education Director of Western Greece. I talked about your responsibilities in my prototype. I repeat that what honors political people, men and women, is responsibility. As far as we are concerned as a political leadership of the Ministry of Education, I say that, after informing us about the relative shortage, we have mobilised ourselves as political leadership, but also our Regional Director of Western Greece, and I think that within a short period of two months we have managed, by ensuring that the Region of Western Greece is co-operated, to restore this injustice. Because it is injustice and the players in the region, ELME and the regional authorities are absolutely right. I also know on the regional council that the concerns have been expressed. They were right to protest. For our part, we are pleased to hear that these fair protests have taken place and that the Region of Western Greece will not ultimately be excluded from the need to modernise our schools' workshops, which, as you have rightly said, have over ten years to accept aid and even to strengthen that level. I mean, by closing that this move is taking place in time of memoranda and that we must not forget. I would like to say that in these difficult times too, we can choose that the fewer resources available to our country, either from the state budget or from European funds, are directed to where social needs exist. And our government, and with this move, confirms that the education sector is considered as a direct social priority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to announce a few requests for permission for absence. MEP Evangelos Meimarakis asks for permission from a short-day absence abroad for the period from 17 May to 21 May 2018 for family reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u10	The House therefore approved the requested permission. MEP George Kasapidis requests permission from a five-day absence abroad for his transition to Cyprus from 11 May to 15 May 2018. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u11	The House therefore approved the requested permission. The Member, George Stylos, shall request permission from a short-day absence for a European Union country from 14 May to 17 May 2018 for personal reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u12	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Vice-Chairman of the Greek Parliament and Deputy of the Union of Centres Mr Marios Georgiadis is requesting permission from a few days' absence from 23 May to 25 May 2018 for personal reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u13	The House therefore approved the requested permission. The Member of the New Republic, Mr. Notis Metarakis, is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad from 24 May to 27 May. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u14	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, before entering the question, let me announce the questions that will not be discussed. The first, with number 1616/8-5-2018, top-stage question by MP Prevezis of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Konstantinos Barkas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Urgent needs for the staffing of the Health Centres of Parga, Kavala and Philippida of Prevezis" will not be discussed due to an obstruction of the honourable Member. The second under No. 1613/7-5-2018 topical question by the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament, Emmanuel Konsolas, to the Minister of Tourism, on the subject: "Enlargement of Tourism Education", will not be discussed due to the absence of the relevant Minister, Helena Kodura, abroad. The fifth under No. 1592/4-5-2018 topical question for the first cycle of MP in Thessaloniki, Mr. Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Read further clarifications on the irreversible Armed Forces", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the relevant Minister, Mr. Panos Kammenos, on the grounds of the official visit of the Romanian Minister to the Ministry of National Defence. The second question under number 1612/7-5-2018, the first question of the President of the Republic of Piraeus, Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Tractical conclusion to a traffic accident in Aegina -50 minutes waited for the ambulance", will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Pavlos Polakis. Cause: workload. The third, with number 1622/8-5-2018, topical question of the F' Vice President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. George Lambroulis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "For the successors of the eight-month competition for the two Larissa Hospitals, it will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Paul Polakis. Cause: workload. The first question with number 4226/9-3-2018 question of the cycle of petitions and questions by MP Laconia of New Democracy Mr Athanasios Davakis to the Minister of Health, concerning the dispatch of two ambulances to the EKAV Molaon and the support of medical, nursing and administrative staff of the Prefecture Health Units of Laconia, will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr Paul Polakis. Cause: workload. The eighth Question No 1518-17-2018, 2nd-cycle question from the Vice-President of the Parliament and Mr Piraeus II, the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance, concerning the problems of four million borrowers, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister, Mr. Euklidis Tsakalotos. Cause: workload. The fourth under number 1557/26-2018, a topical question for the second cycle of MP in Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Conservation of the beneficial provisions of Law No.4368/2016", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthos. The fifth under No. 1546/24-2018 topical question by the Member of Parliament, Achaias, New Democracy, Jason Fotilla, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Disclosures about CEDEFOP that expose the head of the Ministry of Health", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthos. The second question with number 3727/23-2-2018 of the circle of petitions and questions by MP Larisa of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "It is worrying to raise the cases of measles", will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Minister of Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthos. The sixth question under number 1538/23-4-2018, the second question of the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Christou Papa to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "The need for an increase in military service", will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Deputy Minister of National Defence Mr. Fotis Kouvelis. The seventh ninth No. 1539/23-2018 topical question by the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Pappas to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "About the participation of military teams in a party course of the KKE", will not be discussed as a result of a blockade by the Deputy Minister of National Defence Mr. Fotis Kouvelis. The third, with number 1588/3-5-2018, top-circuit question of the Piraeus I of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Nikolaos Kouzilos to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "About the future of the Greek Defence Industry", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of National Defence Mr. Fotis Kouvelis. The fourth question under number 1618/8-5-2018, the first question by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister of Education, Research and Religion, on "Problems of the Department of Architecture of the University of Patras", will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the relevant Minister Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou. Cause: workload. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate on this point has been concluded.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY The question, pursuant to Rule 134(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, of the Member of the New Democracy, Mr South Mitarakis, will be discussed with the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject of: 'Reports concerning the request by the ELGA to the European Commission on the compensation of Chi mastic producers'. The reason is the honourable Member of the Chios Prefecture of New Democracy Mr. Panagiotis Mitatakis for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u16	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2012 there were extensive fires in Chios, where some 100 thousand acres were burned. Thousands of fifty-three original damage statements were submitted at that time. More recently, in 2016 damage from the fire on the island was more limited. Forty thousand acres were burned, according to a statement by the Ministry itself in response he gave us in September 2017. The Minister, Mr Apostlelos, then visiting Chios, assured that the government would try to move the compensation more quickly than in the past. Since then, two years have passed and mastic producers have not been paid, despite what is being systematically heard, but neither has the final CIF of these allowances been issued. I submitted this question two months ago and, incidentally, Minister, today is a day of commemoration of Saint Isidoros, the protector of mastic producers. I hope that this day will give us enlightenment and find a solution for people to be paid, because today we are being watched by Chios, Elata, Pirgi, Mesta, Olympus, villages that are based on mastic production. Ladies and gentlemen, for about a year, in July 2017, ELGA called on mastic producers to apply for compensation from the State Aid Programme. However, very quickly, mastic producers found that the conditions for determining the beneficiaries were quite restrictive, much worse than the scheme applicable to the 2012 compensation, as they did not receive special attention on the characteristics of mastic production, which is characterised by small properties, long distances from the permanent residence and, above all, has many non-professional farmers. As a result, most mastic producers were left out of compensation. The Government has also made the State Aid Regulation and the subsequent original FCH and the ELGA programme without special attention to mastic, despite what is said by the SYRIZA officials when they met the Mastic producers' Union. Funny? Ignorant? Incompetent? You have to tell us, Minister, why, while you showed so much sensitivity to mastic when you were in opposition, when you became government and you, as you say, had all the tools in your hands, you completely forgotten it. In July 2017, I asked you a question as to what you intend to do about masturbation and enlargement of the basis of the beneficiaries. You replied to me in September 2017 under Protocol 659: ‘It is noted that no specific request was made to the European Union for Chios on account of the limited area cultivated in that fire, as well as the requests made in comparison with the 2012 fire’. More recently, in January 2018, the SYRIZA MP in Chios transferred to the mastic producers the assurance of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food that he is in consultation with the Commission, contrary to what your previous answer says, in order to widen the basis of the beneficiaries. So I also asked you a question and a request for documents, asking in particular whether you have made a request to the European Union on the basis of the beneficiaries of compensation, especially for Chios' mastic producers, as you said in public. At the same time, the head of the New Democracy MEP, Mr Kefaloyannis, put the same question to the competent European Commissioner. In his reply of 6 April, Mr. Hogan makes no reference to a special procedure and negotiation on mastic, pointing out that in 2016 Greece introduced a general State aid scheme to compensate for the damage caused by natural disasters. In your reply, on 5 March 2018, you say that the procedure for setting more favourable terms and conditions has already been initiated, but despite the application for the lodging of documents, you did not provide any relevant document proving this or mentioning any reason why depositing these requested documents, partly or all, was impossible. This makes the answer as a whole inadequate and, in view of the above, I have tabled the question we are debating today on the basis of Rule 134 of the Rules of Procedure. Let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen, what SYRIZA said to the Hiotas about the fires in 2012. As a opposition, he had shown much greater sensitivity - from the safe, of course - when invoking the Samara government for incompetence and anesthesia. You then accused the government of not submitting a request for the activation of the European Solidarity Fund. Did you activate it? Did you submit a specific request for the activation of the European Solidarity Fund for mastic producers? You must testify to us. You, as Head of the Agricultural Policy Sector, have constantly visited the island - and we thank you - but only to do micropolitics on burnt trees then. In your question in December 2013, you said that at the time of the Sanctions Committee the compensations were subject to many restrictive conditions and left out a large number of mastic producers. As I'll show you very specifically in the next minute, your C.T.A. is much worse. To compare the two cases: is there currently a special provision for mastic producers? With the 2017 CYPD, there is no. With KYA in 2013, there was a special Annex II to the invitation of ELGA and Article 5 of the CYA, which set specific, more favourable conditions for mastic producers of Chios, due to the specificity of the product's cultivation. In 2013 we included the beneficiaries over seventy years, which you do not include. For farmers who are not primarily professional farmers, the income limit in 2013 was EUR 22,500. You downloaded it at EUR 7,500, so too many mastic producers are excluded. I'll finish the comparison to the extent of the fire. In addition, according to the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Commission has decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. You did it twenty and ten. You double the damage limit to cover it. Ladies and gentlemen, not only the fire has proved to be destructive, but also the public administration. These are your words, Minister. You said it in your interview in Chios in August 2012, just one month after the fire and just two months after the Samara government's attempt to stabilise the country and remove the danger of Grexit. I'll give it back to you today. You've been in government for three years already. Two years have passed since the fire caused much less destruction and you still can't find the process, despite many words - we're tired of words! - to compensate masturbators. I am therefore waiting, ladies and gentlemen, for the Minister to answer us: Firstly, has there been a special negotiation in the European Union on mastic? Who did it in what process? You should deposit the documents. Secondly, what are the results of this negotiation? What special did you ensure for mastic producers, based on the product’s specificity, as was the case in the 2012 CSA? Thirdly, when are you going to issue the new modified MSF for the compensation of mastic producers? At last, what stage of signatures is he in? Fourthly, will there be a new invitation from the ELGA to the mastic producers? How long will the whole process finally be delayed until people are paid? Fifth, when will people be paid, in any case, with or without a new CCT? Are we going to finish this odyssey? And, sixthly, will the new amended NCA also apply to potential new natural disasters, or should all this supposed negotiation take place every time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr Colleague, and respect for time. Minister, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u18	First of all, Mr President, I would like to ask you this: Before you come here to sit down, have you been informed by the institutions of the island whether what you said before responds to reality? Let me tell you that a few days ago, at the Regional Conference organised by SYRIZA for the northern Aegean, I visited Chios for one day and discussed all this. What I, at least, acquired from local society in general, but especially from mastic actors, was in a completely different direction and I will explain to you below. But I really want to thank you for the opportunity you give me to speak more generally about what we have done in general on mastic farming issues. But let me begin by pointing out one mistake of yours. You are calling for a specific document from the ELGA to the European Commission to correct - an amendment to a ministerial decision. So I inform you that - I, if I knew, I would say to you, there is no point in this document - we are not sending this document to the European Commission. ELGA justifies what we want to rectify to the Ministry, the Ministry on its own side will consult the financial services and, of course, the KEMKE will send this document, which will mention all the amendments we want. But I still thank you again, because we want to have a debate on mastic farming issues in the region. Mr. Comrade, you know it, and you said it a moment ago, that from the first 24 hours, when the fire of 2016 occurred, the Minister for Rural Development and Food was there and indeed the information you mentioned was evidence that we gave you on that day about the size of the fire. And, of course, I went to know about the problems and at the same time coordinate the assessment procedures on the agricultural crops of the island. And, as you remember, a similar broad meeting was held with the representatives of the island in Athens shortly after, on August 4th, that is, not ten days after the incident. And, of course, I would like to remind you that we have had not only in mastic farming, but also in vegetable capital, and in animal populations more extensively damaged. These damages were completed and the administrative checks on the supporting documents provided by the producers affected to the ELGA were carried out in accordance with the State Aid Regulation. And you know that there was no other possibility than the CSCE procedure to cover these damages. Therefore, the concrete damage was included in the Programme of State Aid for Fires 2014-2016, the implementation of which was entrusted to ELGA by a joint Ministerial Decision, published after all the proceedings at the beginning of June 2017. ELGA, by means of a communication, has called on all mastic producers to submit applications for aid, providing the necessary supporting documents in a month, for the whole - I repeat - of the losses of the period 2014-2016. However, because, in particular, the fires in 2016 in mastic trees have caused damage to the local economy and because of the particular nature of the programme and to the completion of the administrative control, we have launched a procedure to establish as favourable terms and conditions as possible for all the affected mastic producers to be judged to be aid beneficiaries. That was our main objective when we gathered these elements. Therefore, ELGA submitted a question to the competent department of the Ministry of Rural Development to amend the original joint Ministerial Decision setting out all the conditions for the damage and asked for it to be supplemented by two more additions, with the ultimate objective of expanding the number of beneficiaries of mastic producers. It also aims, firstly, to set the age limit for seventy-five years instead of the seventy years provided for in the relevant regulation, and secondly to set a maximum of EUR 15 000 for non-primary producers instead of EUR 7 500 for the relevant regulation. We asked, in other words, for the aid to be more than doubled, for the possibility of incorporating the heterogeneous mastic producers. We notified this request that came from the ELGA. Don't forget to testify to you, Mr. Metarakis, so you can have it in your file. It's important. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister, Evangelos Apostolos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] ELGA submitted this document, we sent it to the General Secretariat of Economic Policy, KEMKE. I would again remind you that the European Commission's competence to notify such requests belongs to the JRC. It's not our responsibility. It has been forwarded and we have the corresponding response from the European Commission, which basically accepts what we have called for in terms of the EUR 15 000 threshold instead of the EUR 7 500. He does not accept the request to go to seventy-five years. We insist with a new request that we reach seventy-five years. And do you know how many mastic producers are excluded? There are two of them, which we will fight for, so that they can join. Because in the previous letter we sent up seventeen more of the beneficiaries, who were excluded from the previous letter. I also present this document to you, to fill in your file, to keep you fully informed. [[At this point, the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Evangelos Apostolos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] On this basis, the relevant joint ministerial decision, which is in the signature process, has already been drawn up. It's a matter of days. From there on, as you can see, these will be done, of course, after this process relating to the findings has been completed, as it should be, since the relevant State aid regulation is also provided for. That is what we at least think it does not exist. However, you have declared it to be a maximum parliamentary control procedure. On this occasion, since I have had meetings with mastic producers, I would like to refer to other issues, particularly those relating to mastic farming. The Chios Mastic Association is currently implementing a programme to promote masturbation in many third countries, and the response is worthwhile. In order to maintain this traditional culture of Chios, producers are granted financial aid through the support programme for the small islands of the Aegean Sea, totalling EUR 1,5 million annually, i.e. EUR 11,5 per kilo of pure mastics. Furthermore, mastic farming also benefits the additional measures - incentives for small farms in the small island regions of EUR 70 million, which are applied for the first time, as well as the specific programme of aid, amounting to EUR 24 million, the so-called 'Special Islands of the Aegean Sea' programme, which is implemented each year to stimulate the agri-food sector in particular in two areas, in which it relates to strengthening the transport of raw materials from mainland Greece to the small islands and in strengthening local agricultural production and traditional exports from the smaller islands. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that this programme, in the framework of the mid-term review process, which will take place in the autumn in the Common Agricultural Policy, known as Omnibus, will increase to EUR 40 million. In addition, we also promote institutional arrangements for mastic farming. A provision has been included in the draft law on the association of rural areas which will be discussed in the next few days in the House concerning the conversion of the 'union' into 'needed cooperative'. Within the days the bill comes to the House. It has been a request for years of the Mastic producer association. So, Mr President, with what I have said to you, honestly, what, at least on the part of mastic producers, I think will come out is this: this effort we are doing to support this product, help it as much as you can and do not attempt through opportunities, uncertainties and such procedures to find yourself against the efforts that local society actually supports.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Minister. My colleague, Mrs Fotini Arabaji, has the floor for six minutes. All other parliamentary representatives have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u20	Mr. President, do I have a second?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u21	You have, the others don't.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in reading the relevant documents of Mr Mitterraki's timely question about the problem facing the destroyed masturbators of Chios, I am really wondering why the world of primary production should first protest by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. For the policies of drowning taxation? For policies on the evacuation of insurance contributions which are, in common and repeated confession of producers, a second unfavourable tax? To evacuate the cost of production? For the unprecedented slow and undevelopmental absorption of the Rural Development Programme? Should I not complain about such examples of interrelationships, false promises - will you allow me to say even mockery - of producers who have suffered such great catastrophes, which have a major impact on their crops and survival, particularly in the remote and island regions of our country, and which are, Minister, the dominant source of agricultural income? Such an example is that of Chios' masturbators with the great disasters suffered in 2016 by the fire, imprisonment and false promises of destruction compensation in a crop of the country's emblematic product, mastic, which is, of course, the dominant "brand name" of the island, a unique Greek product of protected designation of origin, a product whose know-how is a recognized element of UNESCO's intangible cultural heritage, a product that contributes decisively to the economy of the island and its overall natural tourist development. This is a product that 75% of its production is exported according to the data of the Exporters Association of Northern Greece, a product that contributes to the national economy of EUR 9.3 million. I, Minister, listening to you with great care, fail to understand exactly what has happened with all these statements and protests, because I read that on 8 September 2017, in reply to the honourable Member of the New Democracy, Mr Mitarakis, you have ruled out a possibility of widening the base of mastic producers by saying that this is not possible because of the limited area cultivated by the fire, as well as the applications submitted compared to the fire in 2012. Mr Metarakis, Member of the European Parliament, has reiterated this, and said on 19 January that he had your assurance that there is consultation with the Commission in order to widen this basis. Mr. Kurebes, the President of ELGA, is coming out, and says that since July 2017 there has been a rapid repayment of the losses, through the relevant CAR that had been signed. It also stated that the European Commission should approve enlargement issues, which is obviously a time-consuming process. You are returning on 5 March 2018 and you say that a more favourable procedure has already been launched and that the delay that has arisen in the competent services, the appropriate ministries or the services of the European Union is considered reasonable. I want you to tell us, Minister, very trustworthy, what is it finally? In any case, mastic producers remain unpaid. Of course, for now no extension of the basis of beneficiaries has been achieved and it has not been officially declared if it is claimed. What you told us today remains to be seen in the relevant documents you have submitted. This is the case despite the fact that the State aid scheme to compensate for losses has already been approved by the European Commission in October 2016. Of course, you are taking on board all the damage caused by state financial aid, i.e. the Greek taxpayer, Mr Minister, which will be attributed when and as they are attributed to Greek mastic producers, at the moment - and this is the major - that you leave unexploited, ponding, neglected measures of the Rural Development Programme designed precisely to deal with such adverse events. I am referring, Minister, to measure 5.2 and to the forgotten measure 17 of the initial planning of the Rural Development Programme. If you had activated, Minister, measure 5.2, of a total of EUR 40 million, would cover expenditure of up to 100% on reconstituting plant production potential affected by natural disasters or catastrophic events, such as fires, could already have found funds for new plantations of mastic trees, for the restoration of infrastructure and ultimately for the management of production potential. He reminded you, Minister, with all his politeness, Commissioner Hogan, on 6-14-2018, in reply to our MEP Mr Kefaliannis. It says attributes: ‘The current version of the Greek Agricultural Development Programme provides support for investments aimed at restoring the agricultural production potential affected, which may include planting new mastic trees, but does not provide support for risk management measures’. What does Mr. Hogan say to you very kindly, Minister? It tells you to activate measure 5 for recovery and that of course you cannot make support for loss of income. Why can't you do it? Because measure 17 with the EUR 200 million provided by New Democracy in the 2014-2020 CFP file you threw it out. Why did you throw it out? Because you have not been in a process so long to do the elementary proportionate studies to activate this measure. Of course this is a sign of an overall anti-development approach you have, unfortunately, implemented in the Rural Development Programme three and a half years now, Minister. The whole development arm of the programme is really inappropriate, whether frozen - innovation, cooperation, agricultural consultants - or extensions - better groups and producer organisations, processing and marketing - but certainly not in the real economy, certainly not in the demanded rural investment. Mr. President, have I exceeded my time?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u23	My colleague, you have your dentistry as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u24	In conclusion, I would say that Chios' mastic producers were not the only victim of this management failure. I will remind the Saronic fishermen very quickly, Mr Minister, who still have the ban on fishing in the Saronic region, unfortunately do not have any energy on your part to activate the funds to restore their income. I'll come back to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Nikolaos SYRIZA has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u27	Please keep in mind your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u28	I'll talk from here. I don't see time, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u29	There's no screen for time. I think it is difficult for speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u30	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u31	We can't coordinate. I would ask that we have a tolerance for everyone, because it is really difficult.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u32	There's tolerance anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u33	We understand about how much time is. It's not a matter. I, Mr President-in-Office, would like to be truly a listener and viewer of this sitting, with the question asked by Mr Metarakis, in order to understand very well that this whole story, this question, was made clear for communication only because, in essence, the questions you put, Mr Mitarakis, have not only been answered but have been answered to an exaggerated degree. In other words, you have tried to prove that there are many fewer people who will benefit from mastic producers, which is indeed a brand - and we have not come here to expose mastic producers and mastic products - for Chios, we remember it very well and we support it. Well, they don't need these producers from our good words. They have won over time and have raised their local production on a global scale.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u34	It's good to remember.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u35	I think you have been disproved, Mr Mitarakis, of the evidence you have brought, because: Firstly, you said that few mastic producers were included in the original programme, while the original document of the ELGA speaks of 66.6% of the applicants' acceptance. The majority was therefore accepted. And those who were not accepted in the 2014-2015-2016 Fire Aid Programme, which is the programme of the ELGA, are the ones who were not entitled to the regulation, namely those who were over seventy years old and non-professionals by main farmer. The effort made by the ELGA and the Ministry to broaden the criteria has indeed found a response to the European Commission. At the moment, and the replies given and the documents, which were tabled by the Minister - who I am passing away, have always been close to the mastic producers and at the very first moment to them - prove that the battle to broaden the criteria has been won and won. And so, mastic producers will be able to take what they own, get compensation from the fire, which, unfortunately, hit the island of Chios again. We'll be with them. And I think the Ministry is doing its best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr. Colleague. My colleague from the Democratic Assent, Mr. Michael Jellonis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. This question in relation to the compensation from the 2016 fire of mastic producers is a sample of how the Ministry of Agriculture faces the rural world. And I was surprised to hear that this question, he says, was made for communication reasons. Are they communication reasons when we have 2018, they closed two years, and mastic producers do not yet know what they will get and when they will get, beyond all the procedures that we hear here and red tape? However, dealing with the agricultural world and with the primary sector is not surprising to us as regards the non-pay-back of mastic producers yet. It is all the same throughout the primary sector: Substantial policies, with taxation and insurance, depreciation in the primary sector, disinvestment and dissolution of it to the extent that it no longer helps anyone to grow. I won't ask you, Minister, about livestock farming. You know that very well and you must finally take some measures for farmers by commentator and observer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u38	Let's say the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u39	If you want, we have to have a specific debate on this issue. We've asked questions. Unfortunately, you are not coming to the House. We are given the opportunity, however, today to judge what happened in 2012 and what happened in 2016, which then SYRIZA as Opposition in 2012, taking advantage of the anguish at the time of the islands, gave everything to everyone. In 2012, in fact, we had a fire very disastrous in Chios' mastic trees, as well as in olive crops and pastures. However, measures to restore the losses and continue production activities in August 2012 were immediately taken. I would remind you of this, Minister, in order to understand where you are, not much more so as to stop being mocked as SYRIZA government and as a SYRIZA party. Because what comes from the 2016 fire question in Chios we also live in other regions. I will mention my own region, the Serres Region, where producers from the floods of 2015 still do not know where the matter is. Will they be paid, Minister? You came down and told them they'd be paid. So what happened in 2012? They were treated, as I said, directly with the rapid recording of the losses by the ELGA, by transporting feed for animals destroyed by pastures, up to sugar for apies. In 2013, a direct programme was submitted to the European Union and approved in a record time for such cases in the European Union for payments from the ESAs to infrastructure damage to permanent plant capital and income loss, and in which an appropriation of 12 million was provided for the restoration of damaged mastic trees and olive trees. And I'm asking, Minister: within a year - it's been two years - do you have anything to say about how much money will be paid for the mastic producers' damage in 2016? No, unfortunately you don't. For the first time, and then we managed to compensate non-professional farmers with a minimum of EUR 15 000. Today you're trying to reach 15,000. And to close, I would like to ask you, Minister, in relation to this damage, when did ELGA complete the assessment of damage to the Chios fire of 2016? You said 'instantly'. Estimates haven't been given yet. In 2017, a mandate was given. "It's over," he says. Where is he? Why don't the producers take them? What were the immediate relief measures for farmers and beekeepers since the 2016 fire? As I pointed out, they had been taken in 2012. You say that the programme has been submitted to the European Union. And if it has been approved, what is the amount that mastic producers are entitled to? What is finally happening with the non-professional peasant farmers and to what extent will they be compensated and what amount? I would also like to ask: After the procedure has been completed, then tell us what the amount of compensation approved for this damage is. As you can see, Minister, lies have short feet. You are supervising lies about the 2012 fire and you are mocking the world of 2016 today. But the Minister says, but the Minister also writes, but they answer the local MP who asks questions. A comedy on the ashes, unfortunately, and the damage of Chios' mastic producers and the overall damage of farmers throughout Greece. The twin of unreliable SYRIZA - ANEL burned in his lies and excesses. It is time for a new government to take over the fates of the country and the elections requested by the President of the Change Movement, Mrs Gennamas, are more than ever necessary to be made immediately. Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u40	Mr Antony Gregos, from the People's Association - Golden Dawn, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. Chios, the island of mastic, has been hit in the last decade by catastrophic fires in 2012 and 2016. The tragic record of the 2012 fire was the destruction of an eighty thousand mastic trees. Should we ask ourselves what happened to these arsonists? Has anyone been caught? Not, of course, and it was heard that there might also be some Turks who of course have specific interests. In 2016, about thirty-five thousand mastic trees were destroyed and occupied around forty thousand acres of forest and rural area, according to the data of the Ministry. We visited the island twice, both years and recorded the disasters. We have tabled relevant questions too. We must point out here that the time taken to restore the yield of mastic may exceed seven years or more. This is something we are talking about to show on the one hand the size of the damage to mastic producers and, on the other, the size of the ecological catastrophe. The question arises from the incorrect functioning of compensation mechanisms carried out through the ELGA. It is reasonable and rightly discussed today. The blockade, which we have seen and denounced through parliamentary scrutiny, regarding the payment of the compensation required to the producers affected and damaged in the agricultural sector, is a chronic phenomenon and it is not just about today's issue. The State generally fails to function directly and in order to carry out the procedures for compensation payments, it is necessary to close a dazzling bureaucratic sequence. The well-known saying "when the state has to collect, it is a very easy thing, on the contrary, when it owes its citizens, it makes their lives a bureaucratic hell". And this is where the competent authorities should focus, in our view. In the abolition of bureaucratic claws, which are clearly operating against the average producer and thus against local economies. In a second phase, the Minister must tell us today, almost two years after the disaster, what the process of defining the most favourable terms and conditions is for potential beneficiaries of State aid. What are these more favourable terms and conditions? The role of the Commission in securing funds from the European Union's funds is well known. We are therefore all aware that the state mechanism must operate in order to make the funds available. Furthermore, it is noteworthy that the same Ministry of Rural Development and Food, as the relevant authority, points out that, for Chios' mastic producers, the aid will be paid after the damage has been recovered from producers who have suffered the damage. In particular, it is important to mention that Chios mastic is a product of protected designation of origin, which further proves the need for the regular disclosure of the findings required for the payment of the compensation, as well as the commercial importance of the unique product in the world. Unfortunately, however, we do not believe that this will be the case, given that the ELGA has issued a notice to extend the submission of the relevant documents until 15 May 2018. It is therefore important to take the measures and take the necessary steps immediately and not to set up micro-political games at the expense of the affected citizens. Chios is a wonderful island with many natural beauty, beaches, medieval villages and mainly with very welcoming people. Like other islands, it has fallen victim to the invasion of thousands of illegal immigrants, but also to the economic measures imposed by the governments of the Memorandum. With the production of the only mastic in the world and the seafarers, whose fund you have dismantled, the island of Chios is entitled to and requires the treatment that must be taken, as a breath from Turkey. And since we are talking about Chios and Turkey, I hear that an embargo on Turkish products has also begun. Compatriots should be aware that every euro that they leave in Turkey through tourism becomes weapons and bullets, and that is why they should rethink it and visit the neighbouring country, because for us there is no Greek-Turkish friendship. Those who talk about good neighborhood relationships and strange friendships, rather the interest of the Turks is served. We are close to the people of Chios and Lesvos and all the islands, and we will soon be visiting them, not of course with accompanying MATs or with closed stores. The Prime Minister's lies end, such as the lies of clean exit and economic development, and supposedly for the end of the memorandum no longer believes them. The answer will be given by the Greek people - whenever the elections take place - and it will be cruel and punishable. We will always be next to the inhabitants of the islands, especially in these sensitive areas and fight with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. I would like to make a statement to this House: The Vice-President of the Government - Minister of Economy and Development, the Minister of Home Affairs, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Economic, Rural Development and Food, Infrastructure and Transport, the Deputy Ministers of Finance, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, as well as the Deputy Ministers of Economy and Development, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity and Economics have today submitted 14-5-2018 draft law entitled 'Modification of Law 3190/1955 on Limited Liability Companies and other provisions'. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. For three minutes, Mr. Nicholas Moraitis of the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Today we have a controversy between government, police officer and other urban parties. This is a controversy over hypocrisy, which is far from the demands and problems of the affected, which does not offer the slightest relief to those who have been damaged by the major fires on the island of Chios in 2016, damage to mastic trees and other crops and forest lands. The argument is whether the government has submitted a special request to the European Commission for compensation, which is indeed a matter. But is that the main issue? We are not surprised that the government did not send a request for compensation to those affected in the so-called Solidarity Fund. It is the government, like the parties in Europe, as inextricably bound up with Euro-Union policy, which you are all co-decision on and implemented with great devotion. That is why the government obviously did not send the request, because it does not want to disturb them any further. You're fighting for the individual, for the proceedings. But in fact, you're not talking about it. None of you get out of this because the European Union's funds, which come from squeezing the people, are plucking these funds out of the European Commission's monopolies. Gentlemen, what you did not do, did so by the European Parliamentary Group in the JRC on 22-9-2016, which tabled a question to the European Commission, which we are tabling in the Minutes together with the answer. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Moraitis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This question related to the affected areas, such as the districts of Lithium, Vessa, Elata, Mestos, Olympians and Pyrgos, where the fire, as we said, burned mastic trees and other crops. The estimates made mentioned 90% damage to mastic trees, especially in the villages of Vessa and Lithi. Now listen to the committee's answer, which you are all diligently hiding. ‘The mobilisation of the European Union Solidarity Fund for the destruction referred to by honourable Members depends, in essence, on two conditions, which must be met: first, the total direct damage must exceed 1,5 of the regional Gross Domestic Product in the case of the Northern Aegean Region, to which Chios belongs. This means that the damage must exceed EUR 38,2 million." You're all hiding that. And he goes on to say: "Help from the Solidarity Fund can be used for emergency and rehabilitation actions and preventive measures, but not for the compensation of affected and private individuals, because they are ineligible". They're not eligible, gentlemen. That's the point. Why are you mocking the wounded? You're playing with their pain. You are not talking, however, about the robbery ELGA, which, although it nicks - literally - poor farms, does not compensate too many damages and diseases, as is the case with the fires, said by the Minister that it will go to PSEA, a time-consuming process that gives crumbs, though and when. All of this is because you serve the policy that serves capital gains. No matter how you shout, the tragic consequences of this policy are not hidden, from this system, which, as a criterion of production, has the profits of capital rather than the fulfilment of the working people's needs. In this rotten system, necessary anti-nuclear, anti-Semitism, anti-military protection and armour are not priorities for governments, regions, municipalities. Why? Because they certainly don't leave profits in the major construction groups. The workers, the poor populaces, who are faced with these phenomena and are the biggest victims of these natural disasters, while all the scientific and technological potential and preventive measures are available, must take the case in their hands. In conclusion, I would like to say that for the JRC the first issue is the prevention of fires, since we are at the beginning of the anti-missile period. This requires spatial planning, infrastructure, equipment, adequate funding. There is a need for popular organised intervention and action to prevent policy intensification of the land and forest trade, the struggle to make land and forest social property, to form a source of wealth for our people and not for monopolies.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u44	Thank you. Mr Lazarides has the floor from the Independent Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. I have listened carefully to all colleagues and the Minister. I have listened to the views of the opposition, which expressed its question, and expressed the accusations of delay, compensation, etc. And I listened very carefully to the Minister's replies. Indeed, if you look at it cut in 2016-2018, it notes that there are delays. I have, however, listened with great attention to the Minister's replies, which have given the signal that he is making a quality effort in order to restore the affected, not simply torn apart, that is to say, to become a bat in terms of restoration, which we have used to all the previous years. We see that he has brought up, for example - I have listened very carefully to his reply - from seventy to seventy-five years. And I heard that, Minister, that it is for two farmers. Indeed, it is to the government's credit that he is trying, even of these people, not to be unfair, to be restored to them as well. Also, it is important that the income limit from 7,500 went to 15,000. We can't ignore these things. But listening to someone more carefully to the positions of counter-population, he says that in all of this, which they said, elections must be held, etc., that's it. So the answer was given to why we are here today: To create impressions and to cover the discomfort of counterpopulation, because it sees that in about a month and a half the country comes out of the memorials thanks to this government and sees that every day it loses further pieces of its opposition and finds itself in complete discomfort. He was talking about a fourth memorial. He sees that not only do we have a fourth Memorandum, but we come out of the memoranda on which the Governments of Anti-Population have put us. In any case, we should go back to agricultural matters. Let us not forget - and we must point this out for the citizens who are listening to us, but also for those who forget - that this government has arranged loose ends since 2008. We said that, in the period 2016-2018, it seems, if we look at it, that there is a delay. Is this government taking care of loose ends since 2008 a little while? Imagine what previous governments had done. But precisely because they faced agriculture in this way, they shrank it to 3%. You know, when we entered the European Union agriculture, I have said it many times and I will keep saying it, it was 23% in 1981. And instead of bringing it up and qualitatively and quantitatively thanks to the funds that have entered all these years in the country, we shrank it to 30% and from 10.8 billion in 1981, it came down to 5 to 5.5 billion in 2014. So the previous governments should be apologised here, not to ask this government to apologise. In any case, that is what I have to say and thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, George Mavrotas, has the floor from the river.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. I must say that I would be much more in my waters if we were to discuss the very good course of the Chios Naval Polo Group in the Championship, which is already on the first quadrant and goes on with claims after many years, Mr Mitarakis. As the polo has been the national sport in Chios for decades, so mastic has been the national product for centuries. I was here, and I was visiting the premises of the Chios Mastic producers Association in November, and I saw closely how a local comparative advantage is exploited, but also what opportunities it still has. But let's go to the mastic, the mastic trees and the specific question. According to the Minister’s reply to the question from 15-1-2018 by Mr Mitaraki about Chios island and the damage suffered by mastic trees from the fires in 2016 with a serious impact on local society, due to the specificity and uniqueness of the product, the process of setting more favourable terms and conditions has already been initiated with regard to the potential beneficiaries of aid to support the production of that particular product, this process, etc. I think that this paragraph needs clarification. What exactly do you mean by 'possible beneficiaries'? Some of them were said before. We would like some further clarifications. The extent of compensation has been set at forty thousand acres under ministerial decision No 182/2017 and the question is whether we are claiming better conditions for the beneficiaries of the forty thousand acres or whether there is an increase in the acres and therefore of the beneficiaries, or whether this has to do with the age limits, etc., which you said, Minister. As the product and the corresponding market is unique, there is no actual mastic and mastic trees, it could possibly claim more favourable aid conditions than those laid down in the State Aid Regulation, as competition is not affected. It's a product unique. The question therefore is what specific initiatives have been taken and at what level are the consultations between the Ministry, the Special Office for State Aid and the European Union in this direction. Also, in accordance with the legislation in force, the aid will be paid after the damage has been recovered, in which case the question arises whether there is a horizontal planning to remedy the damage by the affected mastic producers immediately so that the time limits provided for in the institutional framework, i.e. 31-8-2020 and 31-12-2020 respectively, are not exhausted. Finally, I would like to remind you of the always timely phrase of the Egyptian Hippocrates, who has argued that it is 'good to prevent it from being cured'. Instead of discussing the extent of compensation, the extension of beneficiaries and other relief measures for injured persons, we should have a debate and, above all, act, Minister, as they have the main responsibility and responsibility, the preventive measures that could prevent or at least limit in the future a similar extent of disasters, since we are also entering the anti-nuclear period, as well as measures to prevent further deterioration of the affected areas and to facilitate their return to the precursor of the fires. And a good basis is, I think, the study "Eco-revenue of the 2016 fires in Chios", published in October 2016 by the "WWF Greece". The use - and I close with this, Mr President - of comparative advantages, local and national - is always vital to the development of the country and its regions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Metatakis has the floor for five minutes for his dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u49	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the documents tabled by the Minister today are impressive. Let's take a look at the dates. On 25 January 2018, I put a question and an application for a document. The Minister responds to me inadequately on 5 March. Two days later, on 7 March, in my letter to Parliament, due to the inadequate answer, I would ask that today's debate be held in the form of a question. On the day after the question, on 8 March 2018, Mr Apostleu sent the letter - it is his letter - to the European Commission. So my question isn't communal. It's extremely effective. It forced you the next day finally to send a letter to the European Commission on the issue of the age limit and on the issue of the income limit for non-professional farmers. And the European Commission tells you that 'you're asking me about the level of income is a national matter'. I remind you the Samaritan government had the limit at 22,500. You downloaded it at 7,500. And now that you have asked to take it to 15,000, you have been told that there is no problem, it is a national matter. And on the issue of age, for some types of compensation you already have the right to do so. So you lost two years and you finally didn't do anything. And you didn't answer me. Does anyone understand in this Chamber, ladies and gentlemen, when will the new HR come out, which should have already come out? That's what you told us. Anyone understand, ladies and gentlemen, when people will be paid in the villages? Does anyone understand why the government has made more unfavourable conditions for the compensation of mastic producers? Did anyone understand, ladies and gentlemen, in this Chamber, why, contrary to the previous 2013 CY 2013, there was no specific chapter for mastic producers due to the specific production conditions prevailing on the island? No answer. We haven't heard. All we have learned today is that thankfully this question has been asked, so that you may be forced to move the file. You were right about two things today, Mr Minister, but I would like to acknowledge them to you. You said, firstly, that you recently came to Chios at the SYRIZA development conference. Indeed, they are party figurines, they are not government conferences, they are simply government paying the bill to get SYRIZA officials to run an election campaign. So it was such a SYRIZA development conference. If you want me to show you the messages I have received from the Presidents of the villages of mastics for their opinion of your visit, where they have not received any reply, I can show them to you. They certainly weren't satisfied, but they were completely concerned and furious with what you promised them and didn't do. It's just, you know, they were a little polite, and that might have messed you up. The kindness of the Hippies that characterizes us! Also, Minister, you did not say an apology to your predecessors, for what you said when you were in charge of the SYRIZA agricultural sector as an official opposition, when you came to say that it was not just a fire but also a public administration that was disastrous. I'm guessing now you don't tell your executives at the Ministry, who are trying in adverse conditions to meet needs. But I hope that in your dentext you will leave the politics, leave the genealogies and say in particular "the same FYROM will come out, on this date, this process will be done and, until then, the people will be paid". This is what they expect to hear in the cafeterias and not in general political thoughts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Evangelos Apostolos has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u51	First of all, Mr Mitaraki, I really do not want to blame you for lying, but it is unprecedented the falsification you are doing. You got the European Commission's answer to your letter one day - it says - after asking my question, that is, your European Commission did your honour one day later...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u52	No, you sent the letter one day later. Read your dates!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u53	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u54	Do you know how to read?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u55	Let go of me!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u56	You're falsifying my words.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u57	I'm not falsifying your words. One day later when...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u58	Minister, a little more calm.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u59	Mr President, the effort is obvious...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u60	They're getting on the internet. He's falsifying my words.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u61	Mr. Metarakis, don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u62	Listen, I gave you the letter from the ELGA you requested and the letter from the ELGA is from April. That is what you asked me at the outset, and that is what the KEMKE followed, too, to reach the European Commission. And the European Commission answers one day after you and thought that I turned earth and heaven, so that I could answer you the next day. Please. Secondly, why are you saying that we held a development conference and especially for Chios? You were there that day.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u63	I wasn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u64	Did you, at least, see in your move that the Minister for Rural Development was there, that there are reactions? I say to you that unanimously, together with the bodies, we have decided to create more favourable conditions. That's what we talked to them about. When we had fires in 2014 and 2015 that were paid under the 2013 regulation and changed the regulation in 2016, will we not take advantage of the possibility that it gives us? That is why we have tried - and we have done so - and we have increased the beneficiaries, enabling them to calculate income twice as much as what was previously available and we are finally making an effort to integrate a very large proportion. Somewhere you are confused between ELGA, State Economic Aid and Solidarity Fund. Let's get this straight. There's no way. Mr Moraite said so. So, did you see what's going on with the Solidarity Fund? Unfortunately, this is the regulation which says: 'If you do not have 1.5% of the region's GDP, you cannot go to that fund'. I wish we could have been at 0.5% and get in. But that is the regulation. What can we do? We can't question him. When our relationship with the common agricultural policy is a relationship that we all defend, at least in the European course of the country, that is not. It is not possible for the ELGA, because these damages are not covered by insurance risks. So what do we got? We have the state financial aid which, through a process of stabilization and after the approval of the European Commission and if there are any possibilities in the state budget, are paid. I want to ask the Qualified Opposition. How many years were state financial aid granted to you? Please give me an example, which is under three years' time. So they all had such a length. That's what they needed. So what did we say in this case and in consultation with the operators? We have said, as far as possible, to exhaust the possibilities of the 2016 regulation to include more and that is what we have already decided. So we come, and right now we have the findings and the processing begins. We will certainly try, in a much shorter time than the payments have already been - because that is what happens - to satisfy the specific circumstances. It has been said why we do not use measure 5.2. Measure 5.2 is fixed. We are talking here, basically, about the loss of production. That's what was interested in and interested in mastic producers. From there on, the assessment of plant capital - schinos, mastics - is a plant that we leave when it burns and the next one and when it comes to see whether it will react and if it does, it will have to sprout - it is technocratic processes that we have to serve. Otherwise, it can't be. So we can't haunt. You specifically referred to measure 17. Well done. Looks like your mood. You know that measure 17 is essentially private. So, in other words, you want the private sector to enter into the process of guaranteeing agricultural production. That's our difference. There we, no, will not apply this measure. And since we have been able to use this money in other programmes, in other measures, of course we will. It's a matter of ideology, a matter of perception. Mr. Metarakis, don't make the mistake we made again today. Honestly, especially because I've known you for years, despite the different perceptions we have, I appreciated your presence. But trying to make use of the fact that a piece of paper has not come to you to change it to a question, I think the result of the debate shows what local society has achieved.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Arabatzi has the floor for her denunciation, and then the Minister, if she wishes, has a little comment. Here, my colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I was amazed to hear both the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative and, of course, the Independent Greeks say that this question of my colleague was made for communication. So obviously, ladies and gentlemen, I understand that you are aware of the anguish of the damaged producers. And instead of giving clear answers to when they will finally get their legal allowances - they do nothing more, you do nothing to them - you come here and say with great enthusiasm - to allow me to express it - that it is done for communication reasons. And I will say that even if it were to be done for communication reasons, my colleague has done very well because, on the basis of these communication reasons, the Minister did speed up his action. Minister, the documents here are clear. On 7 March the honourable Member considered that it should be re-evaluated on the subject and on the 8th of the month - here are the documents - you sent the document. You have obviously been mobilised - because otherwise you will take on this evil coincidence of dates - to make the so-called broadening of the criteria for which all the debate is taking place here and, of course, the payment and recovery. You said, Minister, about measure 5.2. He responds to you, Minister, - let me not say it correctly - the Commissioner himself says that it is a restoration of the agricultural production potential that has been affected, which may include planting new mastic trees, that is to say, restoring the productive, plant capital that is absolutely necessary to reconstitute the crops and continue the activity of these people. Now for measure 17, Minister, I would like with all due respect to tell you, to see a little better what potential it gives to measure 17. And instead of hiding behind ideological intelligence, it would be better to run the proportionate studies. I do not know, however, what you have done and what you have been doing in the analogy studies that have been needed because of incarpia. Because there too, you will not have activated them, and the ELGA regulation will be passed to restore insomnia. Your certainty of doing the proportionate studies leads to a compensation for the affected ones who are affected and reaffected. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, with your tolerance I shall say a word. The administrative inadequacy of this government and how re-examined you are in the European forums and at the level of activation of Community funds and in the case of the case of the submission of files, is, unfortunately, experienced by the country's agri-foodstuffs world on a daily basis. But you're not just there rehearsing, Minister. You are also familiar with crisis situations such as market crises and I am referring very briefly to the crisis in the sheep and goat sector, Minister. I have listened to you during the speech by my colleague, saying: 'Tell us and suggestions.' So if you would like proposals, Minister, I would ask you not to invoke two or three blocks to discuss the question and to come to Thursday's topical question, tell us about the sheep and goat sector which is at risk and which is really being threatened with collapse. And because, Minister, fate has brought them to you to handle the very important new common agricultural policy for 2020, and because I was surprised to see how reassuring you were in the press release following the Commission's new multiannual financial framework, I would ask you from this step, Minister, to organise information to the Committee on Production and Trade and to tell us how your Government finally places a 23% reduction in inflationary trends for the second pillar, 13% on subsidies and, of course, all the increased obligations imposed on the new delivery model, the new deal. With these considerations I will, in fact, await the convening of the committee's meeting, because what is said at European level is very serious, goes beyond time and, of course, politically as a government and will have to deal with them in the next few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor for a little comment. However, do not extend to the questions of Mrs Arabadzis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u68	I'll be brief, Mr. President, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u69	That makes sense, Minister. I am sorry, but you realise that we will not have another debate on this subject. Help me already!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u70	I will be brief, Mr President. But as regards the fact that the Qualification of the Committee on Agriculture and Trade is calling for the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I think it is a common view that whenever there is a subject, there is always information. The proposals put forward by the Government are specific. What I understood was that there was a unanimous approach, at least in terms of the parties in favour of the European process. There was also a meeting with Members' delegations from all parties and there was the same place. Of course, the proposal that was, in fact, from the standpoint of the President of the Commission, Mr Juncker, which relates more generally to the Cohesion Fund and also to the Commissioner for Budgets, is an answer which has open issues, because we cannot, in particular, identify the consequences of the second pillar and of the direct payments. That is why we are working on it at this time and we want this part to become more specific. And be sure we'll let you know. We have already taken a first approach against the reduction and the CAP in the framework of the Cohesion Fund, as well as the full assimilation and convening of direct payments. We've been through this and I'll see you around. Besides, you know it. It's not a matter. You just want communication to show something. You know what our positions are. But I'll see you in the committee. As for the other part, please do not put the milk sector in crisis. In fact, you're worsening the situation with your behavior. And I'll explain why I'm telling you. For example, you and your Chief had the day before yesterday a meeting with the farmers, with whom we are making a great effort, along with the cheese farmers, so that we can make an interprofessional one. These are the ones I had met last day and we had co-decided to make the meeting at the Ministry, to see what we would do about the inter-professional, because it is necessary. If there is no inter-professional, there is no room to deal with many problems. They had a meeting with your Chief, who said to them: "I'll make you interprofessional." And what happens when you don't come? What if you don't come? Will they wait for you to become their interprofessional? What's your status? The next day they write to me, one day before everyone's meeting, that we will not come, citing no practical reasons.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u71	All right, Minister, finish it up. But don't go from mastic to milk now. Don't change the subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u72	So do not lead the industry to conduct that does not help him during this critical period.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u73	They're happy, too, like mastic producers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u74	Why haven't you introduced her so long, Minister? Is that our fault?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u75	Thank you very much, everyone. The debate on Question No 22/8-3-2018 is closed on the subject: ‘Requests for a request from the ELGA to the European Commission for the compensation of Chios mastic producers’. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-14-S1-commons.u76	With the consent of Parliament at the time of 19.45, the meeting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday 15 May 2018 at 11.00, on the subject of Parliament's work, legislative work: only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Migration Policy: "Adaptation of Greek legislation to the provisions of Directive 2013/33/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on the requirements for the reception of applicants for international protection (recast, L180/96/29.6.2013) and other provisions - Amendment of Law No.4251/2014 (A 1980) on the adaptation of Greek legislation to Directive 2014/66/EU of 15 May 2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals under intra-corporate transfer - Amendment of asylum procedures and other provisions", in accordance with the agenda distributed.
