ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: According to Parliament's approval from 14-3-2018, the minutes of its PZ meeting, of Wednesday 14 March 2018, with regard to the vote on the whole draft law: ‘Incorporation into the Greek legislation of Directive 2014/104/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 November 2014 on certain rules governing compensation actions under national law for infringements of the provisions of competition law of the Member States and of the European Union and other provisions’.]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Friday 16 March 2018: A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question raised by Mr Georgios Vlachos at No 1313/13-2018 from the Member of the Republic of Attica to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The right of establishment of arbitrary buildings in in indivisible property". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Migration Policy, on the subject: "Episodes and conflicts in the port of Patras between migrants and Greek authorities". 3. The Question No 1282/9-3-2018 by H' Vice-President of Parliament and MEP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy concerning the "installation" of thousands of tourist ships prepared by the Turks in the Aegean Sea in the summer. 4. The 1261/6-3-2018 topical question by MP Evros of the New Democracy, Anastasios Prize to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "Sustainableity of the Factory of the Greek Sugar Industry of Orestia". 5. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Nikolaos Igoumenidis to the Minister of Economy and Development on "Financing the water supply networks of Heraklion". 6. PASOK - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Economy and Development, dated 1230/5-32018, on the subject: "The need to regulate housing loans in a Swiss franc" is urgent. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question by No 1080/13-2-2018 of the New Democracy MP, Andreas Katsaniotis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: “The corrosion of saints and effects on coastal areas of Achaea”. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question, under number 1139/92/13-11-2017, was asked and applied for the submission of documents by MP II of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister for Migration Policy, on the subject: “An unjustified delay in the drafting and publication of the quarterly Reports of the Appeals Authority against the decisions of the Asylum Office.” Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS First of all, let me inform you of the timely questions that are being deleted. The sixth question under number 1306/13-3-2018, topical question for the second parliamentary party of Greece, Mr Diamonds Manolakos, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on "Protection and Safety Measures for the Life and Health of Workers in the Shipbuilding Area", will not be discussed due to the absence of the Minister abroad. The eighth Question No 1307/13-3-2018 by Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity concerning the workers at the 'Europe' distribution agency will not be discussed due to the absence of the Minister abroad. The ninth under number 88/13-3-2018 a topical question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Union workers - Rural Partnership Trikala" (ESAF)", will not be discussed due to the absence of the Minister abroad. The first question under number 128512-3-2018 of the first cycle of the Member of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Georgios Palliou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "South bypassing Mytilini", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The first question with number 1834/5-12-2017 question of the petitions by MP II, New Democracy, Konstantinos Hatzidakis, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Criminal transport: Taxees pay more for worse services", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister. The second under number 1311/13-2018, the first question of the Athens Parliamentary I, Mr. Olga Kefaloyannis, to the Minister of Home Affairs, on the subject: "Excellence of crime in Athens", will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Deputy Minister. The first question under number 1286/12-2018 of the Second Cycle of the MP Chania of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Antonios Balomenakis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Capture of gaps in the Fire Corps by participants of the 2011 competition, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister. The twelfth under No 1229/5-3-2018 topical question by the Independent MP II of Athens (State) Panagoulis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Criminality and all manner of attacks by underworld people and fork rebels", will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister. The thirteenth, with number 1149/26-2-2018, topical question by MP II Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Ragos to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The unprecedented attack on the A.T. took place on a para-state website. Cesarean’, it will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister. The fourteenth under number 1159/27-2-2018 topical question of the second question of Parliamentary Kilkis of the New Democracy Mr. Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgiodas to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Problems in the functioning of the Department of Border Guard (T.A.F.)" It will not be discussed by the Deputy Minister of State's imprisonment. The sixteenth, under number 1151/26-2-2018, a topical question by the MP Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Questions regarding the case of an agent based on the revelations of P. Kammenos", will not be discussed due to the impediment of Mr. Deputy Minister. The fifth question under number 1287/12-2018, the second question of the Parliamentary Carditsa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Chrysula Katsavria - Siropoulou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "The upgrading of the Centre for Genetic Resources of Karditsa", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The seventh question under number 1288/12-2018 of the Parliamentary Carditsa Coalition, Mr. Panayotas Vranjas, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "The functioning of veterinary services, the management of zoonoses and their effects on livestock farming", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister. The fifteenth, under number 1150/26-2-2018, topical question by MEP I of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Anthony Gregos to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "About the Greek National Minority of Skopje", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Nicholas Kotzias. The seventeenth under No 926/26-1-2018 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on "Do you trust Matthew Nimic as a special Ombudsman of the United Nations on the Skopje question?", will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Ioannis Amanatidis. There is a letter from the Secretary of the Government on the grounds of absence. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting from the top Western theory is thirty one student and the next and two teachers from the 7th High School of Chania. Welcome to the House. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We are starting the debate with the fifth under No 1273/8-3-2018, a topical question for the first cycle of the MP in Thessaloniki, Mr. Aristides Fokas, Minister for Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Control of the sentence procedure against PAOK". Mr Georgios Vasiliadis will reply to the current question by the State Secretary for Sports. Mr. Fokas, you have the floor to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u2	Good morning, Minister. I was at the PAOK game with Olympiacos in Toumba. What the thirty thousand people have seen did not see - it seems - neither the system nor the systemic channels of Athens. A Tuba "Church". A very important game. You've seen pictures of Karaiskaki, from Philadelphia before, from Tuba. A Tuba "Church". A little cardboard, a roll of paper fell in the racing space. That's all. A roll of cash-paper paper. Seeing the video, Minister, we see that the roll is unfolding and as it falls - it is the law of physics - it almost stops on the shoulder of the coach. Coach falls down and shows he's got something very serious. Then it does not allow the doctor in the field to examine him, while in similar cases he falls upon someone wounded by the doctor to examine him, see if it is serious to solve it. He has been for 15 minutes. There are also surnamed testimony that they see the Olympiacos doctor pushing on the lips the Olympiacos coach, as they go to the locker room and the coach tells him "not here, let's go in". Outside, while the roll fell on the shoulder, it had left and right wounds. I guess they were wrong at first and he says "not from here, from the other hand, he dropped the roll". I would also like to say that five minutes before the primary ruling of the case appeared an additional report by Aretopoulos, a purely legal text, definitely not by the arbitrator. It's in complete contrast with the matching sheet.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u3	But be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u4	Wait a minute, Mr. President. PAOK asked for postponement so that he could see this text that came and overthrow the whole process and no postponement was given. Also, in the Court of Appeal Judge Scoteris says the Disciplinary Code is funny. I don't mention it, the judge mentions it. It also says that the regulations are not good and that they should be improved. There was no, Minister, stop the race. Olympiacos and his players refused to go out in the field.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Colleague, I won't let you give up. Shut up. The rest in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u6	That is what the regulation says, which states that anyone who refuses to go out in the field is being demolished. I also have a few questions, Minister. Why wasn't Olympiacos demolished? What about moral perpetrators? The referee in this race didn't do his job well. I'll come back to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Foka, I will stop you. We're not doing this right now. You've taken twice as much time as protology. Today there are ten topical questions. I won't leave any derogations. Hang up now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u8	I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u9	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u10	Mr President, I feel kind of weird. I am actually being analysed by a case-file, and I am asking myself, Mr President, whether I am here as a judge or not. Mr. Fokas, as you know, the Greek Football Federation and Greek football are governed by its own regulatory framework of penalties. What we did with this government here was to introduce regular judges as a guarantee of impartiality in sporting justice. That's first. Secondly, we introduced harmonisation of the regulatory framework of the Hellenic Football Federation with that of UEFA. That was last summer. Obviously there are gaps and contradictions - I would say - in certain provisions and this is one of the requirements of the Greek Government so that we can continue the championship now given the interruption. Mr Focas, I cannot understand what we are talking about when we have - as in the real world - these procedures and the security differences. This debate, whether Garthia was injured or not, on how it was done, whether or not the doctor took him in, is a debate which will either be held in the disciplinary bodies, on the basis of reports, which will also take decisions or take place in the cafés, not in Parliament. In any case, if we get into the process of commenting on decisions, I'll tell you that the original decision was saying that. The probationary? Don't go to that logic, Mr. Fakas. It's wrong, Mr. Fokas. It's wrong. There are specific bodies, there are specific rules and on the basis of rules, the institutions are working. This country, in order for it to become a normal country, should have structures and let the organs do their job without affecting them, without falling over to eat them, without anthropophasis. I live on the part of the political world, because if this debate is being held in Parliament, what does it require me to have of younger children, who are not as wise as - in theory - we are? I can't get into the point of this case. Now, as for what you are asking me and obviously in dentistry you will develop, why Olympiacos has not been demolished, and so on, I would remind you that the Minister, the Minister at every ministry, is responsible for building the regulatory framework. It does not degrade, although in the past we have seen and degrade and upload groups, when on one night they increased the teams of a class or reduced them in the customer logic that was at the moment. Well, let's calm down. Anyway, we've been through another day since last Sunday. Everyone understands that Grexit's ripples are over the head of the Greek football game and are influenced by the state's mistakes or uncertainties, but because the people who deal with football, football players, are not interested in it and instead of us as a political system in general, to bring them before their responsibilities, we sit and comment on court decisions. Excuse me, Mr. Fokas. I disagree.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u11	The rest in your dentistry. Mr. Fokas, even though you have covered part of the dentistry, I put it to you all, three minutes, but they will be observed. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. It's all happened since PAOK got a head in the championship. Listen to me, because you don't even control the judges - Mrs. Scooter did not make the right decision, she was taken on the foot - you don't even control the arbitrators. The next match came, Tumba opened Sunday morning, the race took place with the AEK and we had another parade of the system against the PAOK team. The match was started normally, on a court that didn't even drop the roll, nor the card, and on the nineties the goal is coming, for three to four minutes everyone celebrates, because PAOK has come a breath of the championship now and the referee is coming, canceling the goal under pressure, goes into the field and finally comes to us at 11.05' to tell us that the score counts, when the players of the AEK refused to come out in the field.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u13	What can I tell you? Does the goal count or not? For God's sake, that is!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u14	You will answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u15	The regulation, Minister, what does it say? He says it's a downgrade to Olympiacos and AEK, who refused to go out in the field. In 2016, at the PAOK semifinal in the cup, Ivan Savvidis decided to take the team and leave. He did his scarf. He took the team and left. The regulation at the time said less than three. Then you, with trembling, changed the regulation and made it a demolition. I demand that the law be implemented. Do we, Minister, do we not want pure football? Ivan Savvidis has come to Greece to invest millions, he has bought SKAP through the hands of the Turk, invested in "Macedonia Pallis", he has offered jobs, helped football, wants a football to be purely a hundred percent, played in the field alone. We've done defeat without complaining about it, but we've never seen it before. I would like you to answer whether you are going to check the'surgeons' referees - both'surgeons' referees - because it is not possible for a goal to enter the ninety, go to show centers, celebrate the whole world and then three or four minutes later take the decision back, enter the locker room and then two hours later say that the AEK counts and refuses to fight. What are you going to do with the "surgeons" referees? With the team actors, what are you going to do? You know that that's where too much money is going. It's the Champions League, directly entering the groups. They're taking tens of millions. Should the Judges not be inspected beyond the arbitrators? It is not possible, Minister, that the best team in the Greek championship - and this is, in general, not my own wording - is the best team in the field not to take the doble and so hunted by the system.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u16	Keep going for a second, so you can finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u17	We want to clear up so we can dig up soccer. We are on your side, but they must become real moves, because we have seen the championship interrupt sometimes. What about the parrot, Minister? What about the criminal organization? What about them? Nothing at all. And now interrupt the championship so that PAOK doesn't get the "doble". Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, the space of this House is the area of free movement of ideas. It's not the area of free movement of water. Minister, you have the floor, with the same temper as in your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u19	Mr. Foka, you tell me to check on the judges. Judges are not controlled or controlled by the Government in parliamentary civil democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u20	Can't we judge the decision?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u21	They're checked by their own bodies. If they do their job well, they will be judged, their terms will be renewed. If they don't do their job properly, they won't renew their terms, they'll have their disciplinary powers. That's how it works, whether we like it or we don't like it. You are addressing a government which has been broken several times by the judicial system. But that's how the system works. From there on, as far as the referees are concerned, you're putting me in a very difficult position, Mr. Fokas. Am I a referee? I'll whistle in? If you want, we should decide at some point to stop these things and to appoint the President every Sunday four - five of us to go whistle. What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u22	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u23	Look out, Mr. Fokas. Because it is a little far from being a café - because if we start here analyzing phases, offside and penalty, people will laugh at us - I have to tell you this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u24	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u25	Mr. Focas, nothing is written in the Minutes. Do not interrupt the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u26	Mr. Fokas, we have some rules. Even in the arbitration, which began in the system rot, some serious steps were taken, not enough - that's why FIFA has now listened to us and brought us three foreign chiefs to stop this dispute within the U.S., among the large groups - which will take time to return to the part of the arbitration. I say this about whether the arbitrations are good or not. Because it takes time, which is why we invest on Video Assistant Referee and when the federation should run it. So don't get in the process. We need to discuss the institutions here. If there are gaps - which exist - the federation must cover them. Because we are not sufficient in the federation's promises, in the groups' promises, we are asking for commitments. That's why the interruption took place. I'm telling you, don't mock your ears. You're telling me about Mr. Savvidis. He really invested. Did anyone say that Mr. Savvidis has not invested? Does it mean that if he does something that's against the law, we'll fly an eagle?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u27	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u28	What do you say to me, Mr. Foka? I'm the Minister responsible for sport. I have a certain fact that I can talk about. I don't make a court of law. Neither will the Savvidis court make its defender nor his prosecutor. This conversation really doesn't honor us. All groups are problematic. If we don't all admit it, if we don't all admit that! - they work in the wrong way - because all they care about is winning at all costs - we don't offer services. That's all. I can't say anything else now. I cannot comment on either the referee or anything else. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u29	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u30	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u31	No, the process is beginning, Mr. Panagoulis. You can't. You'll stay and talk at the end. I can't give you the floor now. Obviously, you want to protest about the absence of the Minister. Wait.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u32	Not just for that reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u33	But in the end. I can't interrupt the process, Mr. Panagoulis. Stay at the end and I'd be happy to give you the floor for two minutes, say what you want. Next to the fourth question, no. 1281/9-3-2018, topical question by MP II Thessaloniki of the Independent Greeks Mr. George Lazarides to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Complaints and Critical Days for the Greek Football". Mr. Lazarides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. I had asked an up-to-date question after PAOK's game with Olympiacos. Since the previous debate, however, I will make a reference and begin last year's question. We are the only country in the world where in the past twenty years we have taken a championship team and we all know how it is taken and we are the only country in which, before the championship starts, even next year, we know which team it will take. Until now, Minister, the upper groups - and we have experienced it on our side, all Macedonians, whether it is about PAOK, Mars or Hercules - had to deal with both the opposing group and the referee. Now, under your government, you don't even have to get into the field to play. After last year's PAOK punishment, PAOK came and played on an empty field, that is, they took care of seven fighters throughout the first round, PAOK played. Of course, Minister, that is the reality. You'll hear the reality here. You should apologise and be summoned to apologize. PAOK played the first round without fans in Toumba. That's never happened before. They were ahead of the championship! And the Olympiacos team comes to Toumba and violated the whole CFP, has left without a prior order of the referee from the field. He didn't let the fight doctor examine the allegedly injured person. He was not transported with an ambulance from the EKAB and after referral by his doctor, the allegedly injured at the public newspaper hospital in the city, but went by private car to a private clinic, with which the Olympiacos team works here. All the rules have been violated and instead of punishing the one who violated the rules, the PAOK team is punished. How do you want the people of Macedonia to feel? The PAOK team is being punished and - be careful now! - the appeal is made - I have heard you say 'what happened with the appeal?' - and the three points were returned to PAOK. Yeah, but the three points of victory were given to Olympiacos without Olympiacos playing ball. And I am writing here in my question "watch out, because if the person who violated the CAP is not punished, there will be a bad precedent and he will be violated and another one", as was the case with the AEK. As soon as AEK saw that she ate the goal and will lose the game, AEK players said, "we are afraid and do not enter the field." Watch out now: Not even in one race has there been an interruption! Well, in the first one, it can't be considered an interruption if it doesn't start.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u35	Finish, Mr. Lazarides.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u36	I shall conclude, Mr President. It's a big deal, and it should be heard. We have to have a debate in this House, Mr Minister, on this issue and not on the two minutes of the question. This is an evasion for anyone who is confined to these minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u37	Yeah, it's a big deal. Next week other Members will come to ask opposite questions, because there is a representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u38	Instead of being punished, because he left the field, we now also have the case of AEK, who stop the game and say we don't go back into the field. And instead of being summoned to apologize, PAOK is asked to apologise.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u39	Mr. Lazaridis, please complete!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u40	Mr President, I will conclude!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u41	Yeah, but you got four minutes instead of two. Please finish, we won't make the Tuba House now. It's over!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u42	...we should set an example first - do not make statements. Why did you make statements just after the Olympic game and your statements were identified with the decision that came out a few days ago. It's a carbon with the statements you made. Minus three degrees...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u43	Mr. Lazarides, finish!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u44	I'm going to say some other things in denture.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u45	Normally, I shouldn't have given you a dentist, because you covered the time, but because I gave Mr. Focas too, I will also give you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u46	Mr. Lazarides, honestly, I'd answer you calmly and try to keep my cool for your last vomit and miserable comment. What did I say, Mr. Lazarides, after the facts? That because of a reef, a fool, a team is in danger of losing the championship. Tell me, do you disagree with that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u47	Can I answer you now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u48	Give him the prize! You won't answer, you will listen to me!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u49	Mr. Lazarides, you don't have the floor! You'll talk to your dentist!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u50	He's asking me!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u51	What do you say in the world to pet ears? Be careful, Mr Lazaridis, you are dealing with this: we are not here to mock ears. I am Olympiacos and I am persona non grata in Piraeus, but I will do what I have to do. What are you talking about? You say: "After the unjust punishment of PAOK for the eight closed." I'm telling you, do you remember why he was punished? Should we have given a prize for manhood?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u52	Answer what I asked you about the Olympiacos game.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u53	What can I say, Mr. Lazarides? The Federation has disciplinary bodies. The disciplinary bodies shall have regular Judges. I'm not judging you, Mr. Lazarides. And it looks like, thank God. Mr President, I have nothing else to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u54	All right, Minister. I just want to remind you that the law under which the system works was passed by both ANEL and the Central Association. I am referring to Mr. Contonis's law. Is that right? Why are you complaining about a law that you have voted on anyway? Let's move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u55	Mr President, I have a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u56	All right, Mr. Lazarides.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u57	We voted for sports judges. You said that's not the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u58	Sit down, Mr. Focas. Good, it's written in the Minutes. Record this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u59	As Mr Mavrotas' proposal has been made for the committee to be convened, there we will have a glorious field and we will analyse it all.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u60	Okay, but I can't help giving Mr. Lazarides the denial. Mr. Lazarides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you did not really answer my question, and I would like to make a reference to facts, to see who is in danger of football and what has been solved. One of the blackest pages of his story wrote Greek football seventeen years ago, in the Olympic game with New Philadelphia. Wood to the referee and pistols after the end of it. Who was punished? Nobody. Unbelievable. Olympiacos' sentence's down. On May 8, 2017, the incumbent UCLAF discharged by a majority and has here a number of events. I now come to the most recent events: On June 18, 2015, a ban on the involvement of Marinakis in football. On December 3, 2014, a hooded attack within the field after the end of the Olympic-PAOK race. On 14 February 2016, a verbal attack on the Arbitration Observer. On April 10, 2016, the car of Dimitris Kanellaki, a journalist, burned in Thessaloniki. On July 19, 2016, he attacked Panagiotis Dimitrios, President of the Athens EPC. On 4 November 2016, threats to a member of the new CCT Tsahilides. On November 8, 2016, George Beka fire in Halkidiki. On November 28, 2016, a fire in the car of the President of the EPC, who took a few days before defending the Secretary. On April 1, 2017, wood to the players of Platanias etc. On October 22, 2017, an attack by Olympiacos fans in the newspaper "NATIONOS" and here is a series, but not to "eat" all my time. Here's nowhere to show PAOK and you've managed to think these days that he was responsible for all this soccer misery is PAOK. I will tell you this because last year I asked you to protect Hercules. Because there were two groups left in Thessaloniki and two groups representing Macedonia. I'll tell you something, 1980-1981 National Championship. Seven groups of Macedonia, six of Athens. This is Piraeus basin, 1990-1991, six Macedonian teams, seven Athens. In 2000-2001, three groups of Macedonia - fell to half - seven in Athens. In 2010-2011 seven Macedonian, five Athens groups. In 2013-2014, three groups from Macedonia, five Athens. In 2015-2016, three of Macedonia, five of Athens. For your days, 2017-2018 a group in Macedonia, PAOK, six Athens teams. What is this, Minister, which protects the Athens groups and is permanently represented by the fixed number of six or seven and has condemned Macedonian groups to be represented by one who tries to hit him brutally. Look, I didn't want to raise the tons, but you spoke hard toward me. Be careful, because these numbers show that on your own behalf you are the ones who are the biggest pages of football in Macedonia. You have become Macedonia represented only by one group and you are trying to hit it as well. So, is Macedonia's teams so scared of the Athenian center system?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u62	Mr. Lazaridis, finish up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u63	Be careful, because these policies divide Greece, they don't unite Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u64	If you ignore me for the third time, I'll turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u65	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u66	Thank you very much. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u67	So decide: I am either against PAOK or I am in favour of PAOK. I mean, or I want to charge PAOK with everything...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u68	That's what you're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u69	... or implement the policy "a city, a group". Decide. Don't blame me for both, I'm not bipolar, I'm gonna have to. I don't answer the rest. And because I do not intend to pet any ears, I have never supported, nor this government here, that for the maliciousness of the Greek football it was PAOK. Obviously, it's not PAOK's fault. You cannot accuse me - as a government I mean - that in my own years all these cases that spidered have not taken their way and have not been charged. In my day, Mr. Lazarides. Nowadays, sports law entered the football federation. In my day the CCT was broken by the federation. It's been in my day. I cannot apologise for which groups are going up and falling. And, believe me, Heracle's world knows who's interested in the group's interests and the survival of the team and who's not. So don't pluralize any more. We're in trouble right now. At the moment, we all had to show with the finger the perpetrators of soccer maliciousness, which are all those who are professional football and ask them and demand that we go ahead with the minimum commitments. We are becoming ridiculous internationally because of their behaviour, actions and omissions. All that you mentioned to me, the evidence of criminal organisations, the "Koriopolis" and all that...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u70	PAOK nowhere is in all of this. They're others.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u71	But, did I talk about PAOK anywhere?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u72	The rest in the committee you're going to discuss.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u73	I said clearly that PAOK is not involved in all of this, and that is why no one can load anything on PAOK. But more to talk about in general and more specifically. Don't baptize the fish! You asked me a question as to whether a judicial decision was right. My answer is that I cannot judge court decisions, nor am I a judge here to sit down and make the facts and make the judgment. And that is right and we have voted together, Mr Lazaridis, to have this process in the federation for the first time, and to have a guarantee that there are no shops and loopholes. That's what we're doing. Well, now we cannot be liked and always satisfied with decisions, what to do? That's life. The question, however, is how we function not to cast oil on the fire and on the children they see, who are being lured into having a teaching lifestyle and mode of action. Why, if we act like a hooligan, what are the kids gonna do?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Minister. I would ask in the Minutes that Mr Fokas be corrected on the position of the Union of Centres in the Contonis Act. We will now discuss the second question with number 1312/13-2018 in the second question of the new Republic MP Drama, Dimitrios Kyriazides, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "The threatened social eruption at the Lefkopodio of Lower Nerokotio Drama". The question will be answered by the State Secretary for Rural Development and Food, Mr. Red. Mr. Cryazides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr President. I am conveying the agony and despair of the aristocratic and isolated Lecadium of Lower Neuroscope and I would ask, Minister, that we have a positive and creative debate, because this issue has come back from me in the past year and with questions and timely questions. Of course, Mr Apostleu did not come today because we expected in 2017 that there would be a definitive solution to the problem. Unfortunately, however, I find with sadness that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government not only fails to give a convincing response to these fellow citizens - we are already entering the fourth year as a growing season - but, I see, the government is mocking and is not interested in resolving this issue. The desperation and desperation of our fellow people, due to the poverty conditions they are experiencing, because of the commitment of their property and the evergreen Hellenisms of this product, as the only one in Kato Nerokopi - one culture - are such that last year's potatoes are sold for 10 minutes per kilo. Of course, because of the conditions of the frost, twice last year, the Lefkapodium entered an emergency. 70% of farmers, Minister, will not be able to grow this year. The Minister had committed himself to a debate on 17-2-2017 that in fact, through a de minimis programme, he will go ahead with a relative support for farmers. Then, in another timely question, he withdrew this position because he was committed to ensuring, after consultation with the Minister of Finance about EUR 3-4 million, that there would be aid. This has not been done, Minister, and is currently experiencing a humanitarian crisis in Lefkanos. That is why I asked you what measures will be taken to relieve affected potato growers, who are still lacking in the cultivation of their land. Also, with regard to the revision of the insurance risks covered by the ELGA, I would like to ask whether action will be taken by your Ministry, as I expected, in order to cover at some point this situation in terms of the inability to cultivate in the Lefkapedio. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u76	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u77	I am pleased to hear you say that you would like to have an in-depth debate. I shall extend it, saying that this debate must be honest. Indeed, in 2011, a harmful organism - I repeat in 2011 - was presented in the potato in the Nerokopi region, because of which the state had to move on two axes. And here to see who's done what we've done, and if we've done our job right. In 2011 there was indeed a harmful organism in the potato in Neuroscope Drama. No one doubts that this has brought about a dramatic reduction in the income of potato producers. As a state, we put the area in quarantine and the Ministry of Rural Development ordered the Benakeio Plant Health Institute to make new resistant varieties. On the one hand, the region had to be protected, not to spread the phenomenon, but to limit it, and on the other hand, there was the issue of compensation. Indeed, Benacio delivered the two strong varieties, which were presented at a conference in Nerokopi in 2016, in the effort, I repeat, of the Ministry to limit this phenomenon, which was very bad for the producers. Unfortunately, however, local government, due to a lack of financial resources, has not helped to this extent to make the newly resilient varieties progress, so that the problem remains. As far as compensation is concerned, the Ministry of Agriculture did what it had to do on the first axis in order to comply faithfully with the laws and regulations of the European Union in the event of a harmful organism. There have also been two meetings on Mrs Bolaris, in order to improve the quarantine conditions, but it has not proceeded with the desired result, because producers have not preferred these new durable varieties. I will reply to you in dentistry, although it was a timely question to Mr Apostleus, about the compensation to de minimis. Now as far as coverage is concerned, you are well aware that by law of 2010, which describes the possibility of an obligation to compensate ELGA, the disease due to fungus is not foreseen as compensation. But now, with the change of the regulation, there is a relevant document from the ELGA. It has been submitted to the proportional study and it will probably be included as a liability for compensation for fungus disease.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u78	You have the floor, Mr. Cryazides.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u79	Minister, thank you for your enthusiasm, in that you have finally made a proportionate study as you were committed. I would like you to answer me if the previous years are included or the current coverage. Because here you were committed to ensuring the sum of two, three and four million, how much did Mr Apostle have to say in order for these aids to be available. Are you government and you belong to the same ministry, Minister? If Mr Apostle said otherwise, you cannot take that responsibility, but the government is specific and the answer must be specific, Minister. So we have to cover this area. We're waiting for that compensation. We will come back, Minister. I believe that next time it is you, so that we can see, whether or not all of this has been done. But I consider the government to be a single one and the solution should be on a sound and unified basis. On the other hand, I must point out, Minister, that on 7 March last year you paid compensation for damages due to EUR 28 million. You only gave Drama 13,500 euros. You paid 60,000 euros to Kavala, 531 000 euros to Xanthi, about 730,000 euros to Rhodope, over one million euros to Evros. Also, for the frost, because the Lecanopod was declared in an emergency twice, Mr. Tsironis had committed some time last year that he would proceed to compensation for the farmers. You gave two million and a lot of lottery, obviously, because of the two hundred sixty fishermen in the Lecade, you only gave ten. That is what I wanted to stress, so that we can see the abandonment of an acronym in our country with a lasting frost, which this atrocity of care should take place. On the contrary, there's an abandonment. They're locusts. We should pay them where they live. I'm telling you, honestly. Winter begins in September and ends in May. Imagine three months of glacier. We expect an interest in your government, if not from you, because you specifically said that you had no responsibility for one point. He's not Mr. Apostolos here today. You can't answer us. But responsibility is general.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u80	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u81	I am not avoiding the answer, Mr Kyriazidis, and I am replying to you. Firstly, for the revision of the insurance risks covered by the ELGA, I respond with the ELGA document in the last paragraph, which is available to you. ‘In the context of the change of the Agency’s regulation, it was possible, through its website, to submit proposals on the existing regulation by producers, bodies, groups and cooperatives, in order to take into account, together with the elements resulting from the new proportional study, in order to incorporate new risks to ELGA’s insurance cover by implementing a permanent request from the rural world.’ The new danger is fungus disease, like potato, and no one disputes that locusts have been damaged. Secondly, because the substance of the topical question focuses on an attempt at de minimis, because the question concerned plant protection, I have to answer it. And here I reply as the State Secretary for Rural Development and not as the advocate of anyone. I would like to ask you a different question, in order for the Minister responsible to come, in respect of the de minimis compensation. I will say one last thing about the issue of Hellenism, which you have raised quite rightly. As of 12 March, an urgent mandate was given by the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Rural Development to carry out intensive checks at all marketing points.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u82	Minister, what happened last year?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u83	You know very well that controls have become much more frequent and recently even greater.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u84	The eleventh question will then be discussed under number 1218/2-3-2018, a topical question by Mr.Georgios Amyras, Member of Parliament, Mr.Athens, Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "The need to modernise legislation on plant propagating material". Mr. Amyras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr President. If someone opened the Channel of Parliament ten minutes ago, he would think it has fallen on 'Sport Sunday', Mr President. It was very little what the debate was about and I regret that it has been moved to this Chamber, with the little experience I have. Dear Minister, I wanted to raise the issue, as the title of my topical question, of outdated legislation that governs, or if you will not, the rules for the production of propagating plant material. Only the state has this competence under law, and from there on it is provided by nursery owners to set up their plantations. What's this stuff? They're small trees and vineyards. However, the state does not make this production. The private nurseries, which are a thousand in Greece, under the law, cannot proceed to this production and import. Forty years we have been importing tree trees and vineyards from all over Europe. If that's possible! Instead of exporting, we import. It is not only the big revenues that go abroad, but it is also the non-reservation of Greek seeds and varieties. That's a big risk to me. So I would like to ask you this: given that the European Union will institutionalise certification, should this plant material be now certified, will you change the legislation? Will the Greek private nurseries be able to move on to production, or should the state well do production and supply the nurseries? But the state doesn't even make production. So we have a dead end. So please, Minister, tell me how you see this problem solved and if you think it is necessary to certify this material, given that in a few weeks or months, I imagine it will be compulsory within the European Union. Answer this question for a start and I will come back with other questions in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u86	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Amyras, I am pleased about your question, because I consider multiplier material as a national wealth of our country. The main legislation governing multiplier material in our country is Law 1564/1985. But you will allow me to disagree with the request to amend the relevant legislation. For what? This legislation has been amended six times, namely by Law No. 1845/1989, by Law No. 2040/1992, by Law No. 2325/1995, by Law No. 2732/1999, by Law No. 4235/2014 and by Law No.4351/2015. It seems, therefore, that the basic law, No 1564/1985, has been updated so far that no proposal from a professional body has been tabled to amend the relevant legislation. Another issue is the application. The main point of your question is certified propagating material. No one disputes that we only want certified propagating material. I would like to present this to you in person and in person and in any case in laws and regulations, which demonstrate that we only want certified propagating material for our country, be it fruits, trees, or vines. But you will allow me, Mr Amyras, to say that you are forgetting the previous stage. To have certified propagating material, what does it need us? The mother, the mother plantation. And the mother plantation manages the public through the keepers. Who are the preservers, Mr. Amyras? O 'ELGO - PIMITRA'. I shall mention in my dentistry and what the Ministry has been doing for two months to strengthen the first stage, because if there is no first stage, Mr Amyras, there will be no certified propagating material, to trade it - and the Union of Greek Vegetables is doing it well.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u88	Here, Mr. Amyras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. Therefore, in continuing this debate we are having, Minister, I would like you to tell me when, in any case, certified plant material from ELGA and so on will begin to be produced. I would also like you to tell me whether you, as I see it, are possible and desirable to cooperate privately with a public sector. We have a thousand Greek nurseries, fifteen thousand direct or indirect jobs. We need to show them a way of exporting effort. I, in fact, break my heart when I see that tree trees, trees and vineyards are imported. That's incomprehensible. We should be the first export power. The varieties of seed are excellent, they are durable in our own microclimate. It should be at the forefront of our priorities. And, Minister, we would like to see, if you have one, in any case - if not a precise timetable - when we will finally achieve the production of certified plant material. And give me a little more information, if you will, let me know, because you, of course, have wider information on the forced certification that will now apply in Europe, how we will adapt to this new treaty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u90	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Amyuras, I repeat that it is our position, but - not only our position - that is our obligation to carry out certified propagating material. In order for the propagating material to exist, however, I also said in my prototype that the mother plantation must be available. We're forgetting it. And the mother plantation takes care of the Greek public with the conservationists. One of the maintainers is the Institute of Olive, Subtropical Plants and Vineyard, based in Chania, which will very soon begin its operation. Over the years - bad lies - no one has dealt with the basic condition of having certified propagating material, maintaining the existing varieties and creating new ones. For the first time, we have applied Article 9 of the basic legislation of Law 1564/1985, which refers to the creation of new varieties with a exploitation - in the good sense - of the fee fee. I, too, invited private operators from the AGROTICA step, in order to help create new varieties, to maintain them, and then to certify the propagating material, which is the subject of your question. Recently, on 7 March, a meeting was held only on the varieties of the vine and we are waiting on Monday for written proposals on the certification of propagating material in the vine. So no one dealt with the primary material of the propagating material, and there was the possibility through the reward fee, because that is indeed the meaning of the reward fee. It's a fee that returns to the payer. For a month now we have started applying Article 9, which talks about the creation of new varieties and the preservation of existing ones. This is the only way, with the strengthening of structures, namely the preservation of mother plantations, will be certified - I repeat only - multiplier material in order to exploit it in the Union of Greek Vegetables. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u92	We move on to the two questions which the Minister for the Interior will answer, Mr Skourletis. We will begin with the third with number 1304/13-3-2018, a top-level question from the MP Magnesia of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Konstantinos Steriou, on the subject: "For the disasters caused by the heavy rainfall in the Municipality of Zagora - Muresi". Mr. Steeriou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you will of course be aware, because your Ministry's step has visited the area, that major disasters have occurred in eastern Pelion since the constant and intense rainfalls that occurred both January and February. These disasters revealed the great lack of the state mechanism to respond directly to urgent situations of political intervention, as well as the total lack of appropriate projects and infrastructures to shield both people's lives and property, private and public, from natural disasters. We visited the affected area, as did your own step. I do not think we will disagree with the recording and displaying of damage, but it is important to say that the main and provincial road network is almost damaged. It must be said that the major disasters, that is, where the network has been completely cut, are about ninety-one. They have been marked for decades, both by the municipality and by other services and yours. Almost every year with weather phenomena we have landslides and traffic interruptions and yet they become patches. Whole villages and settlements, even today we are talking about, Minister, according to what Mr Mayor, is without water because the water networks have been destroyed. 80% of the water supply network is destroyed. The rural road that makes it easier for farmers to go to their fields, as crop year starts and there is a risk that they will be lost, is completely destroyed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, if you are kind enough, I would like a minute more. Thank you very much. Transport from the ZAGORIN cooperative to the domestic market and the international market have been difficult. For several days children from many villages did not go to school because they did not have access. We have to say this here, Minister, in the House, that in October, in the district of Thessaly, the district manager of Thessaly had stated, in a similar question regarding the region's armour, that Thessaly is fully armored by the floods. It is not important, of course, that we now list a serious reality. The reality is that we have, according to Mr Lekka, a hundred homes which have been damaged, of which five need demolition. This is serious and I want your attention. The damage homes and those who want demolition are not compensated because they are not judged to be flooded, since their homes have not been damaged. So, Minister, what measures will you take as a Ministry in order to immediately restore all disasters on the national, municipal and rural road network and within the settlements and, finally, to do the right thing to do? Secondly, the catastrophes should be recorded in the relevant, rural, rural and rural areas, and there should be a full compensation for those affected to 100% of the damage they have suffered. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u94	Here, Mr. Skourletis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Steriou, first of all, I am pleased to acknowledge the fact that there has been an immediate response from the state, expressed by the on-site autopsy of the relevant scales of all ministries, not only by the Ministry of Interior, but also by the Ministry of Infrastructure and by the Region, etc. From there on, I would like to tell you exactly what has happened on these issues, which are obviously a climax at the moment, because the disasters are really great. I would just like to inform you in writing that the Ministry of Interior was given by the permanent CFP, the so-called investors, for projects of this kind that you mentioned, first of all, the small amount of EUR 99,770, and then, from CSCE 055, that is, for natural disasters, EUR 140,000, EUR 100,000, EUR 500,000, a total of EUR 740,000, for damage from natural disasters in 2017, and so far as we are talking about 2018. Also, for many of these projects related to targeted infrastructure interventions, such as water and rural network, the municipality will be able to submit programmes, studies on funding from the new financial instruments in our hands this year, "PHILDIMOS I" and "PHILDIMOS II", which are also directed in these areas. Furthermore, the Region of Thessaloniki, according to the information we had from the municipality, attempts to restore at the moment and has largely restored accessibility to the main road network. Since February 28 workshops of the Ministry of Infrastructure together with the Greek Ministry of Infrastructure have been located on site for damage records and have already completed much of their work. From there, we are waiting for an extra request from the municipality for a second wave of recordings. The TEDO immediately restored the issues of electricity in the aftermath of the disasters. The Special Secretariat for Water, which comes under the Ministry of Energy and the Environment, has drawn up the plans for risk-pollution management and for Thessaly, for this region. They are in consultation, because it is obviously not enough to intervene in retrospect, but it is precisely a risk assessment, and it is an infrastructure job, which is currently being done. The Ministry of Rural Development has already received a hundred and ten requests for damage to plant capital and tree-growing damage. From there on, there will be the insurance provided for agricultural production. In addition - and I conclude - the Ministry of Infrastructure has carried out 50 self-containment so far and awaits the new package of requests from the municipality to continue and the Minister for Infrastructure has approved EUR 193 899 for the Zagora - Choreto road, EUR 500,000 for the road network again of the Municipality of Zagora and EUR 297,897 for access to Pallionero - or, in any case, Damouchari, Mylopotamos. I do not think that these are a passive description of the situation. I think the state has been activated. There are the issues relating to the more permanent speeches, but, as I have said before, these have already been launched and we are trying to deal with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u96	Good. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u97	Mr Minister, you have avoided - I do not know whether you have done so consciously or on the flow of your speech - that you refer to the flooding armour of the region, which is the first and the main to enable us to really not have such phenomena in the future. Minister, you know, as long as there's a planet active, there'll be phenomena like rain, storms, intense rainfall, snow and earthquakes and volcanoes explode. What was said at the press conference that the tiles of Pelion were doing is that it was a strong weather phenomenon. The intense phenomena exist and there will be periodicals. They will come more often, more densely, more sparsely. So, on our part, in 2018, having all the tools in our hands, that is, scientists and technicians, we need to use geologists, plumbers, engineers and make an integrated study of anti-military protection and armouring of the region, so that there are no events at all, but to minimise damage from such extreme weather phenomena. I think - and let me say this - that you are not doing this, that is to say, in your prology, you have not said anything about anti-military study, shielding and protection, because there is really a great shortage today in anti-military protection, but also in the anti-corrosion work that needs to be done immediately. The responsibilities are great, Minister, both of the previous governments, as the others ruled forty and fifty years, but yours too. These responsibilities arise, Minister, through what you are serving today, that is, a political system which has the profit, the capitalist system, which puts aside the needs, the very survival of man and the needs of our country. In fact, for years now, little money is going to projects of real anti-military protection, cleansing - we were told there by the inhabitants - and solutions to the maintenance of old projects. This is because anti-military works and other projects, namely earthquake shielding, etc., are not selected by the European Union and your governments, because they are not rewarding. In other words, it is not tolls to make profits directly to a businessman who will invest. So, Minister, when this situation, namely anti-military protection, is treated as a cost, graphics or an exaggeration - we say it - and not as a modern basic need with the responsibility of the state, our people, the workers, will pay it very expensively. These are the results of the policy that you and the previous ones are serving. I will submit to the Minutes, Mr Minister - and I will mention it - a post by Professor Lekka, who came to the area, sat a week and said in particular: 'For damage to the streets and homes there are other causes. For example, the road network of Pelion is old, it is not often maintained, while some of the interventions that have been made may not have covered the necessary conditions, i.e. smuggling on landslides...".
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u98	Mr. Steeriou, please, let's not turn the question into a question. Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u99	I shall conclude, Mr President. I don't know if and now we're going to do a pasale, that's to say we're back in business. I give it to you for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Steering, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We believe - and Mr Lekkas says so - that the road network of Pelion needs to be reunited and built at the beginning, taking into account the report by Mr Lekkas, the specific nature of the ground, the hydraulic works and the modern works that can be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u100	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u101	Mr Steeriou, in suffocating four minutes ago, I was reading to you certain amounts and measures that we took, taking even a minute above my three-minute period of prototype, to tell me we haven't done anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u102	I'm not leveling it! I don't close it! I said about the armour.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u103	Let me sum up to you: a billion is making the sums that have been exceptionally available now with the approval of the Ministry of Infrastructure for torrents, roads, flooding projects involving streams.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u104	I didn't do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u105	So don't tell me we're doing nothing. I have also mentioned other sums that have been allocated to you - the sums that have already been paid are EUR 500 million - for the theories from the Ministry of the Interior and not only for the recent theorem, but also for the previous ones. From that point on, we will not fight about the periodicity and intensity of phenomena. You also underestimate the issues of climate change. We don't underestimate them. But that is another matter. We've been through this before. But don't tell me that right now I've been trying to get through issues. I will agree that there are time-consuming responsibilities. I would also agree that the non-substantiated country infrastructure, which does not concern basic roads, has remained in many cases untouched. That's why I told you this before. This is the section that we make in 2018 as the Ministry of Interior with the two financing projects for targeted funding for small-scale, right-hand and left-hand projects from the national roads, where municipalities and small infrastructures hurt. The amount for one programme the small one, the "Pilos II", is of the order of 240 million for 2018. "Philomos I" starts from 500 million for 2018 and will reach the depth of four years, five years, 2 billion. These are exactly such infrastructure projects that you say. So I am not saying that the problems will be zeroed, that we will be able to respond from one moment to another when, as you have said - and at least today you have not been equitable, as is sometimes done by representatives of your area - and you have recognised, in any case, the responsibilities are shared. That's good. Go ahead. We will not get over the problems one day in the next, but it is important that, through the means available, I think we are making better use of these instruments, with targeted funding, which will take place and enable the time-consuming problems to give concrete answers. From there on, there is the region, which, through the MAGPs, finances a number of the projects you mentioned. The largest projects are financed directly by the Ministry of Infrastructure. Indemnity issues relate to at least four ministries, i.e. the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Ministry of Rural Development and the Ministry of Interior. All this is being activated, as long as there is a timely and good cooperation between all the stakeholders involved, from the municipality, the region, to the central government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u106	Homes, Minister, are we going to compensate for them?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, thirty-one students and students and two educational attendants from the 7th High School of Chania (second section). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We now move on to the second topical question addressed to the Minister for the Interior. It is the fourth with number 1283/9-3-2018 topical question for the first time in the H' Vice-President of the Parliament and MEP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of the Interior regarding the granting of non-functional school buildings. Mr. Cammene, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u108	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, Minister. My question is about non-functional school buildings. In recent years, due to the country-suffering crisis, more and more buildings have been abandoned and are still licensed, with the result that they are decayed over time while local OTAs are unable, due to high costs and a lack of funds, to carry out maintenance work. In this direction many communal and exorcist associations, communal and private, are making demands to the LAGs in order to undertake these inactive school buildings in order to house activities to promote traditional culture and reliving cultural heritage. In accordance with existing legislation, already Article 5(3) of the COMES are legalised to receive free use of real estate and the concept of public-purpose property must be paid, in addition, for the provision of real estate. However, the criteria for the possibility of setting up a COMMD have been amended, so that it is now considered particularly easy for someone or group to set up a COMMD and to request the concession of these abandoned property. [[This is where the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing.]] The SYRIZA's 23-02-2018 question of ‘Change the use of non-functional school buildings’ asks the signatories to change the existing legal status and, in particular, the interpretation made by the bodies responsible for the concept of public interest, indicating that ‘the latter should not seek profit and that it would tend to seek a service not of a person or group of persons but of the public in general’. At the same time, legislative initiative is called for so that the notion of public interest can be broadly defined. After that, and we will also come to the debate in my dentistry, Minister, you ask: How can the state ensure that they do not have access to these abandoned buildings to illegal groups, irregular immigrants, squats, fascist organisations and other anti-union groups, given that the procedure for setting up a COMPA, to which an abandoned building can now be granted, has it been simplified? Second question: Is there any thought of revising the legislative framework in order to broaden the concept of public interest, a prerequisite for granting an abandoned building? Please, as we define the concept of a public purpose and what it involves. Let me say here that we are absolutely positive. He just needs some attention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr. Kammenos. Mr. Skourletis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kammenos, first of all in the case of school buildings and, in the case of general municipal buildings, which are not used, there is the possibility at present of being made available to both COMCOM and various other cultural associations and being exploited. As far as school buildings are concerned, this is particularly possible when there are no other needs to meet the education process in adjacent areas and when they will be used in such a way that they can be reused as schools in the future. I therefore believe that both the Code of Municipalities and Communities, in paragraph 2 of Article 125, Law 3463/2006 and the institutional framework governing companies in the social and solidarity economy, No 4430/2016, give the opportunity for such use. Of course, let me tell you the truth, school buildings abandoned, at least in the large town complexes we do not currently have. There is not such a big and intense problem. Yes, you do relate to the crisis. Where school units have ceased to exist is in the region, through the coexistence or reduction of the school population. So such pressure for school buildings does not exist primarily. Other municipal buildings may exist. So the question is that there should be the political will of the ministries, the government and the municipalities, who are currently responsible for maintaining school buildings. On the part of the government, that is foreseeable. There is. And every time the request has to be assessed. I would say that we are open to such an exploitation of an existing wealth. The second question you ask me is completely incomprehensible: 'What will you do if and if they understand certain groups, extremes or not, certain buildings that are not empty schools?' I really don't get it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u111	I'll explain it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u112	What always happens is that, obviously, when there is infringibility, the competent authorities are called upon to intervene. So the second question is probably you wanted to put it on your own merits. You wanted to transmit a badge of yours. Such a problem of abandoned schools, which have been taken over and which is a social issue, does not exist. Do these happen in Piraeus where you are elected? I don't know, tell me. I haven't seen them either in Athens or anywhere else. You will obviously have your own reasons to ask that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, too. You have the floor, Mr. Kammenos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr President. The second question says: 'Is there any thought of revising the legislative framework in order to broaden the concept of public interest, a prerequisite for granting an abandoned building? Please define the notion of ‘common purpose’. That is the second question. He's not talking about conquests.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u115	You're talking about it in your question. The other question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u116	The other question was that. It was about the conquests. I'm talking about the notion of a public purpose. Because there are some complaints now, that's why I did it. I have no reason to. If a building is under arrest, a wicked lawyer could go and say in the captivity: "Recommend a COMPA, build a public purpose". Besides, it's a non-profit organization. And so it becomes permanent occupation through COMEP with a public-neutral purpose widely accepted by the municipality, which could also be accepted. "Could" I say, 'because the intentions and what the people are inside are always controlled. And they are not just organisations that are there with a bad purpose. It's a lot of people that have a good cause. But many of them become irregular. I ask the second question about the widening of the concept of public interest. What is the public service purpose? Because if the breadth is vast and wide, other purposes may be infiltrated. And we should just be careful. The other thing I would like to ask in my dentistry is about these buildings, which are not school. And you're right to say it's school, but it's not just school. There are also warehouses, there are other buildings in the municipalities next to the schools. It's not just school halls. And these could be placed under occupation. I would like to ask whether for all these buildings it is agreed that municipalities should be given a non-profit, that is to say that they should not be exploited financially, so that they too have an 'x' revenue. Because there are municipalities who would like an income from this property rather than give it for free or all the buildings to give it for free. There is the possibility of giving all the buildings free of charge. Because if there is legislation to make a thousand COMPAs, for thousands of buildings, for thousands of non-profit clubs, then everyone will benefit from it and all the municipalities that have a building, school or not, will be forced to give it free of charge and will have no economic advantage to their citizens. That's what I'm saying. And we have to look at it, and the definition, and be in good communication with the municipalities, to see if the municipalities are in complete agreement too. I'm sure they don't have the money themselves to take advantage of it, but if the state makes a framework that tells them that anyone else, Kammenos, Amyras, Skourletis, can do a club and you won't get money, then that'll probably give them a problem with revenue. That is also my basic question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u117	Thank you very much. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u118	Your secondary speech did not make me any more enlightened with the feasibility of this particular part or the first or second question. I've been detailed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u119	Which is about the public interest.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u120	From there on, no one imposes on anyone. There are municipal councils, there is the Ministry of Education which decides on the use of school buildings. A request is examined each time. I wish we had requests to make use of the buildings once they have remained vacant. Who doesn't want that thing! And we need to see all the appropriate forms. Now, from there on, any other kind of fears that everyone can have, their right, but, in any case, we cannot deal with. We as a state must ensure that certain conditions are guaranteed, that there is a possibility of using these buildings for a shared purpose. And that's not only about the COMPAs, it's about a number of other cultural, folklore clubs, sports clubs, various activities, living, resident people, who want to house their needs. Alas. I repeat that, unfortunately, the Greek region is more concerned with this issue and, in many cases, we have helped to unblock different buildings, regardless of whether they are - I repeat - school units, buildings for example old pacifistry which has been closed or have been granted to small municipalities in the region to house the services of the municipalities, other activities, etc. And precisely because self-government is close, it's in the problem, I think it should have the flexibility, the will to meet such needs. I repeat if we think that the existing framework creates a barrier, we are welcome to make it clearer, but in the direction of strengthening the use of any empty buildings. From there, you gave some explanations, you made a reasoning, right - left, etc. In any case, this does not fall within the scope of your question and your initial intentions at least, as I understand it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u121	We move to the sixth under No 1280/9-3-2018 topical question of the first cycle of the Athens MP Mr.Georgios Amyras to the Minister of Culture and Sports, concerning the reconstruction of the Sacred Temple of Transformation of the Saviour in Plaka. Here, Mr. Amyras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr President. I imagine, Mr President, that you, as mayor of the mayor, know this church. It is a Byzantine temple that stands for a thousand years on the edge of the Plaka, on the Kydathenaon Street. Next to it is the house of the late Constantine and Ioanna Tsatsos. It's a place that's amazing. But here we have the following problem. And I tell you, Mr President, that if you have not visited the temple lately - of course always visit him - you will be prepared to be sad. And you will be sad for this reason. The Ministry of Culture has undertaken a project to reconstruct some parts of the temple and maintain the hagiographies. Two were responsible for supervising the work undertaken by a contractor from Patras: It was the Restoration Department of Byzantine and Post-Byzantine Monuments and the Department of Antiquities Conservation to maintain the frescoes of the Byzantine part of the church. First of all, the discount given by the contractor should have made the Ministry of Culture a little more suspicious. While the project was budgeted for 700,000 euros, it gave a 55% discount and with 396 000 euros it took the project. Let us assume that the discount was good, but the result of the job was unfortunately tragic. Listen to the problems: First of all, instead of starting from the roof, because he was entering water from the roof, they started from the maintenance of the hagiographies. They did not put a protective one above the hagiography, and for one year the roof was watering, too many hagiographies of them unfortunately destroyed and must be maintained again and made. Second of all, the new temple frames are worse than the previous ones. It's still watering the temple today. Thirdly, if you go into the temple at night, you will think that the priest, the parish father, wanted to originalize and put electronic panties in. They're not electronic candles, they're the electric painting that's been placed at the wrong point with its lights and, from the side, they're bragging and an air conditioner, an "climate" - and you're getting the expression - and you're getting into a temple that you're supposed to feel an incense, enter your religion and suddenly you're seeing a huge electrical painting that's shaking the lights and an air-conditioning to be imposed on the space. It's not just those problems. It turned orchestration on the walls, Minister, and there was no provision for access to cables. If there's any damage, it's gonna have to be a part of the orthomarmagnosis to find the wires. Also, the microphone installation was erroneously placed and cannot be repositioned the original, the existing wood carved icon in place. The marbles of the sacred step also, while it has been decided that they should be replaced, were not replaced. They remain with a coating on the famine, showing the feeling of the abandoned one. Madam Minister - and I apologise for overcoming time, Mr President - my questions are simple. First, did the contractor get paid from the Ministry of Culture? Secondly, why did the two competent directorates of the Ministry of Culture receive the work? And thirdly, what are you going to do - most importantly - to restore all these new damages that have come to repair on the previously problematic elements of the temple? What are you going to do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u123	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Amyras, first of all I appreciate your interest in the work of restoring this truly important temple on the street of Kydathena, but you are giving me the opportunity to present both scientific and technical work carried out by the Ministry of Culture and Sport, which I have the honour of leading.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u125	For this temple?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u126	Yes, of course, for this temple. First of all, you use an improper term, the reconstructing term, which applies when something is rebuilt, again, similar to what it used to exist. The Ministry of Culture, in accordance with international conditions, respecting the principles of the conservation of cultural heritage, does not reconstruct. It restores, protects and highlights monuments. We therefore come to the issues you are addressing. They are based, in many cases, on inaccurate information you have, which I have to identify and clarify. First of all, the sacred temple is indeed a historical monument, which dates back to the middle of the 11th century. However, there have been interventions in two phases across the centuries, namely between the years 1835 and 1955, the parish church has received extensive work that altered its original form, with the predicaments of Byzantine walls and addition of extensions, as well as in the early 20th century, extensions to the west and were completed with the known two tower codes. As you can see, with these interventions for the service of the faithful the temple changed radically and turned into a three-aisled basilica with a dome and a transverse cliff. From the Byzantine monument, to which you refer, the three-member sacred step is maintained, the dome and part of the main temple. So we're at a three-stage monument. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] Now we come to the work that has been done in this monument. It has not only been done by the Ministry of Culture. The Holy Archdiocese of Athens, which were executed in 2007-2009 on the basis of a decision of the CSCE and a ministerial decision of 2005, have been made in an early phase and by the Holy Archdiocese of Athens, through approved studies and work. These work concerned structural fixing and static restoration, as well as electromechanical installations, a budget of EUR 650,000. We are now coming to the work of the Ministry of Culture. The Ministry of Culture incorporated the project into the NSRF 2007-2013, with two sub-projects from the Restoration Department of Byzantines, as mentioned by the Athens FSA. The subproject of Byzantine resurrect was only the Byzantine part, not the newest one. The Holy Monastery of Archdiocese of Athens worked for the youngest. It was about the younger part. The Byzantine was from the Ministry of Culture. There, with the careful withdrawal of the takeovers, significant architectural elements of the temple’s original housing were found. With these findings and after the opinion of the CSCE, an adjustment was made to the study. The project was closed to 238,000 euros. In other words, it was greatly reduced by the initial study, precisely because the electromechanical work had already been prioritised by previous projects. So they were removed from the new study, because there was no reason to do it twice. The subproject from the Antiquities of Athens, until 2015, involved maintenance, frescoes and solid work in the Byzantine part again. There, all this work was done in fragmentation, very carefully, and when the ceramic sculpture was removed, a sealing wrap was inserted. It's not true what you're saying that there was no provision for some protection. On the contrary. A study was carried out, approved by the OAS and all planned protection measures had been taken. Also the maintenance of the frescoes...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u127	Madam Minister, you must be brief. You won't testify all the study here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u128	It is a lot of the issues that my colleague raised.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u129	I've already left you two minutes longer. Your services to know what they're answering in writing. You still have one minute to get to dentology.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u130	Thank you very much, Mr President. To complete this part of the maintenance of the frescoes and paintings on a spasm in substance. Indeed, there is only one point here, in the north of the eastern arch - despite the repeated interventions by the conservers, which are excellent, if one considers their work throughout Greece and I would like to stress this - a constant depletion of salts. Not in all the frescoes, as you said or in the decoration, but only at one point, due to the presence of moisture that is constantly coming out. However, it is maintained and cleaned. The problem, I stress, appears in the north. As we know, such phenomena often appear, especially in monuments with famine. I can continue later on in my denture.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u131	Shut up. Then you'll keep going. Mr. Amyra, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I will tell you good faith really that you will have to go visit the temple. Because what you have written is inaccurate services. I am not going to use the expression that you said, namely, 'It is not true what Mr Amyras says', nor am I going to say 'it is a lie that Mrs Connordou tells us'. I'll say it's inaccurate. I invite you to go together, visit the temple. I'm sure and I'm afraid your heart will cry, because you're a man in a broad spirit, a man in culture, and you'll understand that what the services have written to you is just internal mailing papers, because someone goes to cover the responsibilities he has. That's how I track it. The memorandum of writing the obligations for the contractor - I have it here - Article 6, term 6 says - and it is something the services of your Ministry have not even noticed - that if the contractor uses water and electricity from the provision of the temple, he will have to pay for consumption. Well, that wasn't even what the contractor did. He left 4000 euros in PPC and 750 euros in PPC. Now the parish is looking to find money to cover this opening. Why am I telling you this? To tell you that your services - I say it directly - did not do their job well. What should we now respond to the real facts? I invite you and I invite you in part - to say so - to take the managers of the two addresses of the Ministry of Culture, to go together, to call Father Bartholomew and to sit down and see good faith if it has been done or has not been done a good job. I went to the temple, go over and over and for an emotional reason, because it is our family congregation. Right behind it is our home home. There we grew up and became all the Mysteries of the family, baptisms, marriages, from the time of the priest - Marios, that unscrupulous priest who said "the kings" and caused problems in the 1980s, until today, who is a young parishioner, the priest Bartholomew, and doing amazing work. We all have to take this effort down. It is not only the architectural monument, it is not only the lack of a pilgrimage atmosphere caused by these malaises, but it is also a matter of how public administration works, when you give contractors jobs and then just - according to my opinion - a superficial care and very easily sign the receipt of the project. In conclusion, my question was and remains: Will these malices be restored, even in the Byzantine part concerning the Ministry of Culture? Second, when are we going to the temple? We should also call on the President, Mr Kaklamanis, who, as the former Mayor of Athens, knows the area from the outside and undisturbedly, we should take the three of us with the services so that we can see who is inaccurate and who is not - so as not to use your characterisation - who really wants things to be done in order to ensure the public interest and, of course, the subject of the work at issue. I'm filing the documents for the Minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u133	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u134	I will come back to the issues that you are addressing. Both the shells, which you mentioned, and the electrical tables, the refrigerating machines, the cooling-heating system, all belong to the contractor assigned by the church council. Also, there have been no completely new frames. It is someone who had been corrupted and replaced by a few. It's not all about deafening. Also, as regards the point where the microphone installation entered, the installation was again made by the previous contractor, based on the position described in the study. The placement of the tello was not included in the study invoice. It should be done by the project user, the church. The normalizations, to which you referred, concern the younger part of the temple and had been removed from the previous work again. You also referred to the colonists. This work was not included in the work of the UNHCR, and in addition, it is not in the ethics of interventions the glazing of the marble architectural members of a monument. Also, you incorrectly talked about imperfections and mistreats, because the administrative receipt of the project took place in three stages. The first was administrative receipt by the user of the project, by the representative of the temple. It's done without remarks. The second was temporary receipt. It was done in six months after the completion of the work, by the Archdiocese representative, also without observations. The third, the definitive acceptance, was made again by the representative of the Archdiocese Technical Service after the completion of the work, also without any comments. I would like to stress the work done by the Ministry's services that I have personally admired and appreciated throughout the country. They are excellent both in the restoration not only of Byzantines, but also in maintenance. We have a know-how and a high-level scientific adequacy, and we must be proud of that. It is an exportable product, which is of great interest to many countries to share with us. I also wanted to tell you that the Hellenic City of Athens EAF is preparing a study to restore the trilogous window of the central arch of the sanctuary, the marble elements to which you referred, which are severely damaged and broken, due to the arbitrary placement of a metal string that has been made in the past. However, a specific study, to be carried out in 2018, shall be carried out. I answer as to what you asked me. But let us not forget the very successful and truly worthwhile restorations of the sacred temples in Athens, the Metropolis of Athens and the Holy Church of Agios Konstantinos and Helen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u135	Madam Minister, I think Mr Amyras did not question the quality of the services of the Ministry of Culture, but do you know what I understand now from your second language? That the left didn't know what the right one was doing. I mean, the part you supervised with what the Archdiocese did seems to have had no contact. Four times you said 'This part was not in our jurisdiction'. I mean, you didn't deny what Mr. Amyras said, it just wasn't your fault. Not you personally, but the Ministry. I think we can make this visit. It'll be nice.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u136	We're talking about 2005.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u137	Sure, yeah. We can make this visit on the ground and in future they can cooperate. You're right. The Archdiocese went and did what he did. Then you guys went. You found that tableau and that giant thing you're talking about. I've seen it myself. He couldn't get down there at least? Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by four students from the upper Western theory and a public IEK Kifisias. A few, but good. Welcome to the House. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The third question, with number 1305/13-3-2018, will be discussed at the second time by the Member of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: 'Reduced pensions for farmers'. Mr Anastasios Petropoulos will be responding. Mr Mauritius, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr President. Your Government serves, like the previous ones, faithfully to the directions of the European Union. It implements a set of anti-grassroots measures that exacerbate the needs of workers and pensioners. In recent years, we have worsened the situation of the largest part of the country's pensioners, according to the official figures of the "ELIOS" system. Under this situation, Minister, anger and indignation prevailed in pensioners of old age, born in 1950, when after a long period of time they finally saw their pensions, but saw hunger and impoverishment pensions, on the basis of the new calculation of the reinsurance law 4387/2016 and Article 99, on pensions. After twenty - thirty years of contributions, they received EUR 330-360 pensions mixed. They also see in practice the impunity of the government and the result of the law - plundering. The government's declaration to farmers was that they will be the big winners. You and all the government officials said that after twenty years of insurance they would receive a national pension of EUR 386 and with 15 years of EUR 344. They are now finding out what I mentioned. They retire after twenty years, some who have paid since 1988 and some since 1998 and received a national pension of EUR 23, Mr Petropoule. To reach the whole of the national pension, they must wait 15 years. The whole of the national pension farmers will get it in 2032. It is not only the pensioners who are experiencing this barbaric policy. The whole poor and medium-sized farm is confronted with the barbarity of capitalism. For example, farmers if they have an accident at work - which is very likely by the nature of the work - they are not entitled to sick leave. They go to work sick people, wounded, because they can't do any different. Barbarity reaches its peak from the point of view of this: rural women are not entitled to pregnancy and predatory leave. They're being sent for work by the day of birth. Of course, motherhood is persecuted both by your own government and by the previous ones. In recent years this childbirth allowance has also been cut, which had been won after decades of struggle. To answer that, Minister, that is to say when farmers will get the full amount of national pension if farmers are entitled to sick leave if the farmers are to take their leave for pregnancy and foreclosure. One final demand, which is also a request from the JRC and the consistent agricultural movement, is that, because of the nature of the work, the farmers' pensions should be paid to sixty years and to the farmers for fifty-five years.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u139	Okay, with the last one now, there's been a mess in here. He's answered. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Moraitis, you have spoken of pensions at the height of you - EUR 330, as long as that is - pensions resulting from the provisions in force in the OGA. That's clearly what the law says. The law says that. You are therefore talking about the pensions of the old system that have not been dealt with by an explicit provision of the law. They are not pensions which will result from the application of the law, which in transition and gradually per year leads to an increase in pensions, which of course is not rapid, Mr Moraite. When you look carefully at all the facts and if you read the main law, you will understand that so long you condemn a system that we abandoned. At all times you are condemning hunger and poverty pensions, as you call them, but they were derived from a system of prostitution that characterised the OGA pension system. Now it's starting to become a reward. I would remind you that since 1961 and for twenty-seven years farmers have been entirely collecting the benefit they received, as 3/5 were from the state budget and 2/5 were from social resources, the amount that was due to pay for their pensions. They did not contribute at all from 1961 to 1987. For ten years a period of voluntary insurance followed. Only a few have made use of this possibility. These two cases lead to such a small pension, because after 1998 a small contribution rate was predicted, which is 1/3 of the farmers and 2/3 of the state budget. That was the relationship that since 2002, the continued reduction of this contribution from the state budget, which would be zero in 2025, and farmers would stay open with the mouth, because they would see that they would take nothing. The pensions you're talking about are pensions for this old system, which was totally prejudicial. They are not derivatives of the new law, which will start to produce from 2025 and then mostly. He already produces, but on his takeoff, he'll be 2025 and then he'll be there.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u141	Mr Colleague, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u142	Minister, not only have you not responded to the enormous problems faced by young pensioners, who, with the calculation of pensions - I insist - by the law - slaughterhouse of your government - and to respond to this - take about 6% of the national pension, Minister, but continue with a great deal of enthusiasm and various 'tsolims' - that is what farmers say - and with'sympathetic' mathematics you are trying to make black white. That's the reality. But it's another reality. I don't know, Minister, what you call hunger pensions. If it is not hunger pensions of 330 euros, after thirty years, what are they? Those who take 330 euros have been insured and pay contributions, Minister, since 1988. You didn't answer why the rural women don't take the leave of pregnancy and sergeant. We're talking about a profession that you want to work for them until the day of birth in the field and in the mantle. These are the questions you need to answer. The barbaric system you serve has been cut off - as I said before - and this poor income of childbirth. Even in this he sets strict conditions and does not take almost any farmer. We're talking about rural women, who you'll probably know work under adverse conditions. This demand is fair, and the heavy work and the conditions under which farmers are working to retire to sixty and fifty-five are also scientifically substantiated. I have not heard what the President said. If he wants to, he'll say it later. Nevertheless, you want farmers to work until the grave and then sixty-seven, because they cannot live, Minister, with the 330 euros and are forced to work until the last day of their lives. You said farmers don't pay. You know, Minister, that farmers pay forty-six years because, when you are insured from the twenty-first year of age by sixty-seven, they are forty-six years. To prevent you, do not tell me that you will make use of the law forty years at sixty-two, because this measure will be implemented in 2028. The farmers can't do it. There must be successive insurance so that it can be done. We must, of course, stress another serious problem. It's what you mentioned. Of course, you've had it a little too fast, but that's the way it is. There is a law, after 2001, which the government then voted on and the next one as an eyewitness and your own government, which, too, has been gradually reduced and has now come to be a tip, to be a poor house. But today's calculation is done by your own law. Why did you, Minister, say that you will come to save farmers for twenty years, which have been in 1998, when you said that they were the main insurance policy until now, would receive a pension of EUR 380 and EUR 344 respectively for twenty-three years? Minister, say it here. They're getting 23 euros from the national pension. This is the way the calculation is made, i.e. 384 times 6%. If you know any math well, tell us exactly how much it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u143	That's what you're closing down with, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u144	This is important, Mr President. Another huge problem is that you hold in hostage several farmers who today are sixty-seven, sixty-sixty-nine, seventy-seven, seventy-one years old who cannot get a pension. Do you know why? Because they owe over 4,000 euros. In order to enable pension applications to be activated, this amount must fall below EUR 4,000. Of course, for all the insured, it's 20,000 euros. Not that they're in a better fate. They are victims of the same anti-population policy. Answer that, Minister. In the past, it was because farmers - and we are talking about poor farmers - were unable to pay these small social security contributions too, they were withholding the insurance contributions from pensions and they were retired after a couple of years when the debt was amortised. I have now told you that they are farmers of seventy years - and you can answer - who cannot receive a pension because, for example, they owe EUR 4.300 and that is not possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u145	Mr. Moraite, I can't leave you any more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u146	I shall close with that, Mr President, in thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u147	You won't ask her, too!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u148	Minister, you're talking about arrangements. Answer, because farmers and other insured persons are waiting. If you get in a hundred and twenty instalments, will the insured be judged to be directly retired, or will they wait for years to fall below EUR 20,000 for other insured persons and EUR 4,000 for farmers? That is why you should answer, Minister, and not vaguely, that it will take place after years. Your law will be fully enforced after 15 years. "Keep on, May..." the farmers say, in 2032. Is it, anyway?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u149	You're done. It is good for the topical questions put to us and not to add another ten after that - it concerns all of us - which the Minister may not be prepared to answer. To keep you from worrying about what I said, Mr Moraite, I said that for your request for retirement in the sixty there have been repeated hostage battles here, and unfortunately it has not been accepted. That's what I said. Mr Anastasios Petropoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr President. I must admit, Mr Moraite, that with mathematics I do not do well, but I do very well with the rules of logic. You will explain to me why, when you have not yet heard me speak, you doubt me and you have prepared a written dentistry to tell me that I have a nerve, I have "Syrian" tricks, I have "solims". Before you even hear what I'm going to say, you wrote - why you're reading the second language in writing - what you're going to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u151	Answer the substance and I will withdraw.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u152	If you want, testify in the Minutes the dentext which is written that I will say with courage, "slicks" and "Syria" tricks as I said. Is it possible to speak in this way? You want to show that you love farmers more than we do. It is possible to speak so when you have already accepted it and said it - it is true that it slowly fades until it was zero.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u153	Since when?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u154	From 2002 to 2025.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u155	And what did you do?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u156	You say so. Is that what you want us to leave? So we came by our law - so that this does not happen to farmers - and we have created a new basis of calculation for granting, without even having been paid up with created capital for farmers' contributions from the past. They didn't exist. I told you, I explained it to you. I told you everything in my prototype. At least note what I say and not read what you have written before you hear what I say. Well, take a look at these. Study them in the Communist Party of Greece. After studying them and seeing what other positive might be done, bring us proposals based on the insurance capital created by the social security contributions to the share of farmers, to see what better we can do. I can assure you that, on the basis of the existing reserves, there could be no alternative but to leave the path of reduction to the disappearance of the farmers' pensions, a course that we have stirred up with Mr.4387, as we have predicted the gradual - it is a fact - of granting national pensions. The first year is 6.20%. The second year is 12% to 13%. The third year is 19%. The fourth year is 25% and is paid by 100%. I would remind you that the national pension is EUR 384 and the farmer is currently paying EUR 87 a month. So you realise that without insurance and contributions from the past it is not possible to tell me to give a national pension of EUR 384 from the funds created by taxation for a contribution of EUR 87. If you have mathematics found a way - you are good at mathematics, which I admit I am not - that you can give such high pensions without contributions or a very low contribution, we will follow, because it will be efficient. It does not, however, fall within the rules of logic. I imagine it will prove mathematically that my logic is square and yours is unexistent.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u157	Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u158	Mr. Moraite, I'm sorry. We're not going to do that. There's nothing in the Minutes, you don't have to say it! Let's talk about it before. I left you four and a half minutes extra. We are moving on to the last for today and also very important - in my view - a timely question. This is the tenth question under No 1267/6-3-2018 of the Independent MEP, Catherine Papakostas - Ironropoulou, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: ‘Repeal of the protection of the pensions of HEIs by the law of Katrugalou’. Mr Anastassios Petropoulos will reply to the timely question by Mrs Anastassios Petropoulos. Mrs Papacosta has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u159	Thank you very much, Mr President. I think that the admission, Mr President, is important for this timely question, also shows the sensitivity to the issue, which, unfortunately, is not enough in the Greek political system in the last few years. I refer to all the wings of the House. Yesterday, a great, top scientist, a great mind, Steven Hawking, "leaved" and left behind his willpower, his top mind, which many, who are not considered HEALTH, do not have, because he and two - three more of the human species were geniuses and honoured it as we should honor. He had a peculiarity as to how Hawking expressed his displeasure against those who thought they were insulting the human species: he swore with his car and smashed their toes. I think she'd have had a lot of fingers in this country lately! I come to the point of my question. Because I have previously heard about common sense, apart from institutional and constitutionally regulated protection of small and medium-sized enterprises, it also violates the rules of common sense. And since common sense should have been guided by common sense, I ask, Minister, the self-evident: Since the Constitution gives us institutional protection for people with disabilities, since Greece as a Contracting Party has signed all those international conventions, has ratified and made national law conventions guaranteeing the protection of disabled persons fully, that is, our institutional arsenal is complete, since the provisions on the protection of persons with disabilities are just a jungle of law, i.e. they are not capable of abolishing, modifying or, on the hand, suspending force, the question raised is why Article 13 of the Katrugalo Act has abolished all these institutional guarantees, thereby abolishing the protection of pensions for disabled persons by the Katragalou Act, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u160	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being informed of the history of the building, by twenty-six students and apprentices and two educational attendants from the 1st Municipal School of Chrysoupolis Kavalas. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Minister, take care now of what you will answer, because you understand that there are allies to the question. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u161	Very well, Mr President. I'm an ally with you, too. With his example, Hawking, but also everyone, without supplies, - because he's not only Hawking, he was a genius, and he managed to pull out his genius and his condition didn't prevent him - he showed the will, indeed, and the faith that we can always do the weakness of power. I absolutely believe that, Mrs Papakostas, and I know that you really are a sensitive person in managing social issues in a proper manner. I will not disagree with everything we have to protect. I should just like to point out, Mr President, that the Minister - Mrs Ahtsoglou - is outside Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u162	I have already mentioned it at the outset.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u163	But, if it were here, I would still answer, because it is my responsibility, and that is why I can easily say that the thoughts expressed by Mrs Papacosta are my own thoughts. This is a transitional provision until the end of 2018. The direction I have given is all that you have said to be adopted by the committee responsible and with the participation of the RESEMA, of all people, but also of others, and not participate, I can assure you that what you have said I fully endorse and will be a guideline to resolve this issue correctly and that will be done. I can assure you that we will do what we need to do in this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u164	Mrs Papakostas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u165	Thank you very much, Mr President. I heard the Minister. But the question, Mr President, is this: Since the laws and provisions of the Constitution, first of all, the embodiment of international conventions in national law, have protected them completely, why has this pathogenesity been? Why was this distortion so that we should be forced to drive where? Look out! To be guided by the Supreme Special Court, the Liberation Court, which, in its judgment of 7-3-2018, decided as unconstitutional Article 13 of Law No.4387/2016 against which I am directed. Since all of this was self-evident, since we had all the institutional guarantees, the Supreme Special Court has also dealt with them, because some are violating self-evident. Because some in our country - and because we talked about Hawking, Hawking and his individual effort were rewarded, because it was accompanied by a grid of provisions, a social protection network, a social agenda that is inviolable in his country - are violating the supreme social protection net, which is the institutional framework, institutional guarantees, the rule of law. That is how the state - I mentioned the extradition of the Supreme Special Court's ruling - has been forced to raise matters and, indeed, to force the Member to put a question and confirm that the relevant Minister in question is going to return to legality, which has been legally disturbed. Because I have to tell you something else, Mr President, and Mr Minister. Article 13 is a general provision. Here they are protected by special provisions. The general provisions are laid down in specific provisions and do not retreat towards general provisions. All this has happened and we are here now to have the assurance that legality, which has been disturbed, will be applied. It's incomprehensible to me. Do you know why it's incomprehensible to me? Because right now, we're talking, there's complaints and see it. The General Inspector of Public Administration was issued an audit order on 22-1-2018 to the General Accounting Office of the State. A document was sent on 24-1-2018. It followed a telephone call on 26-2-2018 and a re-document on 2-3-2018, which is invited to take a position in the light of complaints about the application of Article 13 to disabled pensioners with 80% or more. And there was no response to this obligation on the part of the relevant directorates. So look at how we function. That is why I said that Hawking would smash the fingers of many of us, because in our country the self-evident one is still being violated, and because the social agenda is not high in the priorities, as it seems, neither the Government nor the Officerial Vice-President nor the other parties, which are being cut off to the voters. And I'm sorry to say that. There are isolated islands of sensitivity, but this is not about sensitivity. These are priorities which constitute the social agenda, which we all have to agree to keep as a gospel, with religious devotion. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u166	Mr. Petropoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u167	Ms. Papakostas, there is in the law for pension cases of up to 3,000 euros, double...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u168	Don't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u169	I do not disagree, Mrs Papakostas - and I have said so again - with the reasoning you have made, which I have. It was a transitional period from the law to the complexity and the many other provisions that said of the civil servant, but they said of those who were private, but of the farmer. And that was the unacceptable phenomenon that violated what you said as a principle of forced law: these rights should not be affected. They were devastated. Discrimination, exceptions. This was unacceptable. However, in their complexity and in the circumstances in which the relevant provisions have been formulated, the question could only be dealt with in a transitional manner with the provisional nature of the provision so that it can be properly resolved. And I assure you that it will be properly resolved, and there you will join, contributing with your thoughts and your good intentions, so that we can do it wholeheartedly. I fully endorse your thoughts. There is no reason to say more at this time than to see what was not there. Because it has not been subjected now, it has, unfortunately, been in breach of the relevant provisions of forced law for a number of our fellow citizens. That's the truth. With the new uniform provision, we will manage the issue with the protection rules we have to take. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u170	Let's not hide behind our finger now. For the Minister, Mr. Petropoulos said more. Now, the rest we all know, since that sunny day of 2010 in Kastelorizo, and then the well-known group Lagard, Tomsen and so on, in what you said, and the Minister didn't care. Be honest, that's the truth. But I think we can do that, because this is going to be 300-0. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Dear ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-15-S1-commons.u171	With the agreement of the House at 11.58 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday 16 March 2018 at 10.00 hours, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
