ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS Before we begin with the seven questions which are to be discussed today, I would like to make the questions which, on the basis of the letter from the Secretary-General of the Government, will not be discussed. The second under number 998/6-2-2018, the first question by MP Fthiotis of the New Democracy, Christos Stakouras, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "An overview of General Government expenditure, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Finance, George Huliarakis. The fifth question, under number 948/30-1-2018, is the second question of the new Republic MP, Christos Stagiras, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: ‘Evolution and completion of the procedure for the repayment of outstanding public debts to private individuals’, will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Finance Mr. Georgios Huliarakis. The fourth under number 1005/6-2-2018 topical question of the first cycle of the Athens MP of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "To be paid to the former employees of ATE all that is due", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance Mr. Euklidis Tsakalotos. The fifth under number 976/5-2-2018, a top-level question for the first cycle of Congressman I of the Central Association Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Which the exact balance of the bank account of Law No.128/1975?" will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance, Mr.Euklidis Tsakalotou. The second question, under number 1000/6-2-2018, of the second question by MP Larisa of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "When will a national action plan against drugs finally be drawn up and adopted?", will it not be discussed by the Minister of Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthos. The first, with number 999/6-2-2018, topical question by the Member of Parliament, Heraklion, New Democracy, Eleftherios Ausgenakis, to the Minister for Health, on the subject: "Reactions to the new EEA contracts with the family doctors: EUR 0.71 per month for each insured person, EOPY!" will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Paul Polakis. Also, the fourth under number 1007/6-2-2018 topical question by the MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Health, concerning the problems of staff shortages, building infrastructure and equipment at the Hospital of St. Nicholas Lassithi, it will not be discussed because of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Health, Paul Paul Polakis. We are now entering the debate of the first under number 975/5-2-2018 on a topical question from the Congress of MP Kosanis of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Theophiles to the Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject: "Legal aid in the cases of Law 3869/2010 and Law 4469/2017". This timely question will be answered by the present Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights Mr. Kontonis. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, as you know, the protection of the first people's home is a primary concern of the government and first concern of the Greek society. It is for this reason that, as we know, the Katselis - Stathakis Act, i.e. Law 3869/2010, as amended and valid for natural persons, for households - let me make the distinction wholesale - and the law passed by our Government, Law 4469/2017, the extrajudicial mechanism for traders. In my opinion, because these laws apply by the end of 2018, we must also bend to details, to any practical difficulties encountered in their implementation. And what are those that I raise with my current topical question? Many of our fellow citizens who have a problem with the protection of their first residence - and they are people's families - are unable to afford the financial costs of the lawyer and the costs of the law needed to subject the Katselis or the extrajudicial mechanism. In these cases, of course, there is the security net, the way out of legal aid by the known procedure, i.e. I go to court, I check that I am a low income and a lawyer is appointed to be paid by the Ministry of Justice. But there is this critical detail: Colleagues who take on such very critical cases for the Greek citizen are paid with degradingly low wages. In particular, the payment for an application in the Katseli Act was in force - and still applies - is EUR 69 by this procedure. Because working on an application from Katseli takes many days of work, you have to close your office for all cases and work for at least a week on a file because it is a critical case, because you are protecting the residence of a popular family, the result in practice and in everyday life is that fellow lawyers find various excuses and avoid taking such family cases that have really low incomes and are unable to meet these costs. In my opinion - and that is what my question is about - we need to increase the remuneration of those taking such cases, namely by appointing the State of the lawyer and to simulate the fees of the criminal courts of the felony, where there lawyers are taking on critical cases, working one day at the audience, but being paid satisfactoryly. Even more critical is protecting the first residence of a people's family, and I think that's where the government's actions should be directed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u3	In the case of the Minutes alone, the question, Mr Theophile, is whether the government intends to take a legislative initiative so that EUR 69 will have a reasonable increase in the legal remuneration for the issue you have raised.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u4	That is right, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u5	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. I take the opportunity to take the opportunity to ask my dear colleague, Mr Theo-Conservative, once again to the House that the government is absolutely looking to protect the first residence. I think that despite the tensions and confrontations which sometimes take place in Parliament's Chamber to date - although I have asked for it - no one has brought as an example a first residence, a popular residence that can be subject to and under the Katseli - Stathakis Act and which has reached the auction stage. It is a great effort that the government has made to the legislative work, since the first time we took over the country's governance, from January to February 2015. The legislative initiatives of the government have been fully implemented. I would also like to stress that seizures made against poor citizens for debts to the public and the insurance funds do not mean that they will reach the auction process. I say this because various self-determined saviors are at times trying to cross - and indeed the TV channels - an idea that the confiscation which by law imposes and to which by law a public servant, a civil servant, automatically means losing the property of the citizen. It is a great mistake, which is made by some aspects and is deliberately projected. On the occasion of this matter, however, I would like to say, Mr President, to both the Bureau and to all my fellow Members, especially to Mr The Guardian, that all Greek citizens who have an economic problem and cannot meet the financial obligations, until 31 December of this year, until 31/12-2018, have the opportunity to bring an action before the Greek justice, to raise their problems in the light of the judge, the peacekeeper, who will decide this case and be treated accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as this treatment is concerned, you can see from decisions which have been adopted in the last few years that it also reaches a large 'haircut' of these debts, at 80%, at 90%. The Greek citizen, who has a problem, should therefore respond to Greek justice - I say this for the last time at the National Representation - to have a regulation and a reduction in these debts. Do not identify confiscation by auction. No poor man is going to lose his property, but legal proceedings must also be made, precisely to protect him. Mr President, if you will allow me to take the time of my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u7	You don't have to. We have a relative comfort. Give an initial answer to the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u8	So I also give a first answer to the question again.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u9	Your dentistry will be whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u10	Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr President. I would like to point out that as a lawyer I also know the problem. Of course, we should add and stress that for these fellow citizens, whom today and every time from the Step of the House, we urge them to address justice to be treated favourably for the problem they face, the government has already taken steps to ensure that these people, if they are in an economic weakness of the reward of their proxy, are asked to the mechanism of legal aid and the revenues of the FIFG to approve a expenditure paid by the Ministry of Justice. Mr Colleague, it is reasonable to ask you, because in this procedure before the court, you have rightly stressed that the remuneration for the application is about EUR 70. Of course, it's not just an application. It is also the performance and proposals, that is to say, the remuneration of EUR 210 automatically rises. I would like to say with absolute honesty that too many cases of protection of the first home are complex and difficult cases, because they must be cross-checked with scientific adequacy, but they must also be made known as real claims and situations which do not correspond to this minimum remuneration which is the remuneration before the court. I would like to tell you that, because we know exactly what the problem is, we are considering the possibility of an increase in the legal fee in these cases. However, we all have to bear in mind that, on the one hand, this remuneration is satisfactory, but on the other hand, the FAO and the Ministry of Justice can bear that cost - that is something that concerns us - and not only meets this obligation, but also responds quickly. Because if a lawyer is paid after two years for the work he's done, you realize how burdensome he is for this man. Mr President, I would like to answer anything else that my colleague puts.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u11	Good. The others in your dentistry. Mr. Sanctuary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Minister, for the first positive response to the question. I've really personally handled several such cases as a lawyer. I, too, can assure you that they usually have a favourable attitude from the courts or, as you have rightly said, that they are treated in accordance with law and justice. I also confirm the complicity and the work that one has to do, because the object is crucial for a family, but also that he has strong opponents, usually banks, which have organized legal departments and an organised legal arsenal. So a lawyer with a reward of EUR 69 does not have the mood, strength and time, especially to deal with such a difficult matter. I would also mention that at a meeting that we recently had with the Special Secretary for Private Debt Management, we were confirmed that from those who appeal to the Loan Information and Support Centres, the JHA, who are set up and expanded throughout the country and are in the government's positive actions in dealing with private lending and overcompensation, most have an economic problem just to appoint their own lawyer or financial advisor. Finally, I would like to say that I understand the reservation that the Ministry will see how this problem can be solved without the budget being increased in particular or taking into account the costs of the FIFG. It should be borne in mind, and in this debate too, that the lawyer's minimum out-of-court fee is set at EUR 80, in accordance with the Code of Lawyers, and it is something that the Ministry can "patch" for any legislation. It is a proposal I make to resolve the issue. As also by the anabolic, set up by you and our Government, a percentage of the funds, in particular the year 2018 that is crucial and should be the issue of protecting the people's housing, I believe that some funds should be directed to that end to cover our fellow citizens, who have a real economic need and should be given the excellent legal representation to protect their homes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u13	Minister, you have the floor, although I think you were clear before.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u14	I would like to add, Mr President, that at this point in time there is indeed a framework for the protection of the citizens who have financial problems in relation to the first place of residence. And this starts, as Mr Theo-Conservative has rightly said, by the Citizen Information Centres, where any citizen can come and be informed in detail about the course of his case and the degree of success, if we have the mediation of the judicial crisis. But even the fact of informing citizens and the legal aid mechanism cannot replace the presence of a fellow lawyer who is dealing with rather or less too serious cases. These cases, as mentioned earlier by me and by Mr Theo-Conservative, are complex and need an increased diligence and work of the proxy lawyer. We must therefore agree in this House that the government has exhausted all efforts to ensure that the first residence is fully fortified. And I repeat once again that the seizures made for debts to the public do not mean a loss of property and an auction procedure. This can be dealt with in practice and can be appended in the way I referred to. As far as the substance of the question is concerned, we are thinking of increasing legal fees in the process of legal aid for cases under Laws 3869 and 4469, precisely because we also want the proxy lawyer, who takes such critical cases, to feel at the end that he has given his mandate the maximum, but he also has the expectation to receive a decent fee. I repeat that the entire remuneration right now exceeds EUR 200. But I think it's too low. From the revenues of the FIFG, which you know we have tried to strengthen with the analogy that you mentioned, and with other procedures, we are trying to bring legal buildings to a measure of seriousness and functionality in the country that are in a bad state, abandoned, especially in northern Greece. I am personally aware of the situation there, because I have visited a number of prefectures, which meet on multi-housed floors. It is outrageous in 2018 to have such conditions of justice. But because the issue you have raised is crucial and it is the direct priorities of the government, which is why we are considering at least the remuneration of at least EUR 500, so that we also have a decent reward for a great and serious representation before the court in which the citizen is to apply with the support of his proxy lawyer. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u15	Mr Gavroglou, to prepare for you, I tell you that colleagues have consulted each other before the debate on Mr Bourras' question and that there should be a change in the order of debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u16	I know. I've been informed, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u17	Okay. Ms. Kafantaris, on behalf of all years too much for your nominal celebration!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u19	Now we will discuss the sixth question by number 886/23-1-2018 in the second question of the Attica MEP Mr. Athanasios Bourras to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on "Special arrangement for the affected students of the High School of Mandras". Here, Mr. Bourra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. As all of Greece - and not only - knows, on November 15, 2017, the inhabitants of Mandra and Nea Peramos experienced an unprecedented disaster, the consequences of which are still experiencing until today and from what I see daily, they will experience for a very long time. Twenty-three people have been lost. Assets were completely destroyed. The city of Mandra is now dead. Three months later, people are still trying to unleash their homes - as I say - and their businesses. There is no economic development, because the city's mall still counts its wounds. The old National Road Elefsina - Thebes, from which you may have all passed, is in bad luck and is the only way to contact Mandra - and all the western Attica - with the municipalities - is now called Violions and Reds and the many settlements, which are developed in this area. The nightmare of a new flood is daily. When they see it rain, the inhabitants sincerely remember the nightmare. The schools, Minister, have been closed for over fifteen days. And then their function was and is still poor because of the great disasters in the school units. The students have not come together psychologically. The whole situation is particularly prejudicial to the students of the Third High School, but also to the graduates, who will re-examination this year. They are invited to claim a place in higher education, while their daily life has not yet been restored and the whole situation will follow them for a long time. Their homes are still in the mud, all the constructions have been destroyed - as I say to you -, their families are economically unable to cope, as repairs of their homes and businesses precedes. Minister, every time there is an emergency, the Ministry provides - to come to the conclusion, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance - for special treatment for students in affected areas. That is the essence of my speech today, because until now there has been nothing more. I imagine there will be - there cannot be - arrangements for additional moleculosis of all-Greek students being examined at Mandra and Nea Peramos High School, but also of the graduates, namely those who are in these houses and who are preparing to re-examine their examinations. Of course, in the above case all pupils of public and private schools, families living permanently in Mandra and Nea Permos, should be included, but they are either studying or graduating from schools of neighbouring municipalities. For example, a child may live in Mandra and go to school in Elefsina next to or in a school of the Great or even of Corinth. In my denunciation I will testify to the success of the debate and for you three FECs.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u21	So the question is the extra molecules...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u22	So, Minister, I believe that soon - because it is the psychological factor - you have to give a solution, as always, to this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u23	Good. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. I think that Mr Bourrai won't need a denial, because we've already settled the matter. Today, with a statement from the Ministry of Education, we are announcing the provision to be included in the bill submitted to Parliament tomorrow as an amendment to the University of Western Attica.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u25	Are you referring to the Ministry of Education bill? Is he coming tomorrow?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u26	In fact, the Ministry of Education's bill is being tabled tomorrow, it goes to the committees and it will have an amendment in the direction that Mr Bourras said. In other words, these children really face a very serious psychological problem, if not anything. This region has been paying an indifference to all the mechanisms of the state for decades. But I do not want to talk about this. We're interested in the kids. We have an extra 2% rate for kids coming from corresponding areas. But they must catch a minimum of the latter's molecules - that is, 70% - so that they can get into the universities and at least get their stress out of them. As I said, it will be tabled and will therefore be voted on in the next fortnight. We call it, we have announced, so that it is not considered to be just a promise without substance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u27	Mr. Bourra, you were neither informed of being with the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u28	No, we haven't talked at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u29	I know. Humor, I didn't say you spoke. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u30	Mr President, you know I've been serving this area for decades...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u31	Successfully.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u32	...and I have a particular sensitivity to this area. Just, Minister, since you are here, I would like to say something for your own sake, but also for the children who are in agony and who either are studying or are graduates - I stress it again - and they will give back tests because they are also staying in broken or muddy houses, and they have lived and live the same nightmares. I would point out what I said, ending my long prototype - and I thank the President for that - that the arrangement must include these children, because I told you that a child can go to school in Elefsina, but is resident - and this is confirmed - in Mandra or go to Corinth - is next to the Megaras and New Peramos - or go to the school in Nea Peramos and be a resident of Megaron. I don't know if you've ever visited the area. Secondly, I would like to testify to your facilitation of the VETs, which I imagine you have, but I will present them for the Minutes. In the earthquake of Kefalonia on January 26, 2014, in the earthquake of Lefkada on November 17, 2015, in the earthquake of Lesvos on June 12, 2017, there were corresponding and there was not an FEK in any case. If you look at them, for the same case there are two and three FEKs, because it needed to be completed, so that there are no supplements. I will put it before you that the legislative intervention will be completed, and I will have the opportunity to see it in detail. I therefore submit three recent cases to the Minutes and to the relevant EPCs. There have been such cases before, and I'm going to wait for the arrangement. At the moment, they are listening to us - and I imagine they are feeling lighter - both parents and children in this region who have been suffering for years. It is the "rear court of Athens", as I say every time, because there are major industries there, there are many problems, there is the deterioration of the environment. All this needs to be done better in order to improve the quality of life in the region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u33	Minister, you were quite clear. If you want to add something, here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u34	Mr President, your colleague, Mr Panjas, has asked a similar question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u35	Ten days later.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u36	It doesn't matter, Mr. Bourra.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u37	It is one of the issues to which we can all agree. Don't go to such things.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u38	No, I say this because there is a common concern for the region. You asked me and I answer you. Indeed, I visited the area immediately afterwards to see what's going on in schools. To reassure you, Mr. Bourras, because you too are coming from the academic area and you know all this, what we need to do in general is to have a regularity of how we deal with these cases, whether it is an earthquake, whether it is a flood or something else serious. In the bill, we'll testify to the total and the ministerial decision will come out to take into account what you're saying. Understand? Because if anything stays outside, because it's really...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u39	We'll fill it out.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u40	You will put the general framework in place and the executive ministerial decision will go into the details. I'm talking about the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u41	We will also do so in consultation with colleagues there in the region, whether we have lost anything in the future ministerial decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u42	That is why, Minister, I have tabled these FEC documents to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u43	Thank you very much, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House the 776 of 12-2-2018 proposal tabled by the Prime Minister and President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Alexis Tsipras and a hundred and forty-four (144) Members of the Group's Parliamentary Group, as well as the President of the ANEL Parliamentary Group, Mr Panos Kammenos and eight (8) Members of the Group on the establishment of a Special Parliamentary Committee for a preliminary examination, pursuant to Rule 86 of the Constitution, Article 153 on the Rules of Procedure of Parliament and No.3126/2003, as applicable, on the investigation of the 'NOVARTIS' case. The proposal will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, printed and distributed to Members and will be placed on a special agenda, as laid down in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u44	The first question under number 600/23-10-2017 will be debated now under the question of the circle of petitions and questions by MP II of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Charulas (Haras) Kafantaris to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The establishment of an Environmental Education Centre (CIC) in Antonis Tritsis Park". Here, Mrs. Kafantaris, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. Good evening, Minister. Of course you are well aware that lifelong learning centres for the environment and sustainability, environmental education centres, are decentralised educational structures of the Ministry of Education and are subject to their respective regional education directorates and have multiple roles. They are addressed to students in terms of environmental education, environmental education and sustainability, but also to adults for training in environmental education, for information, to raise awareness among members, local community actors on environmental issues. Actions implemented in the JEPs include seminars and training for the environment, conferences, awareness-raising actions, while emphasising experiential learning and initiatives. The theme of the actions carried out in the centres is in direct relation to the specificities of the natural environment of the areas in which the expected results are, of course, - as we have said before - to raise awareness of pupils on environmental education, to develop skills, to train and raise awareness of teachers and to acquire new knowledge and to develop skills in relation to the environment. As far as the metropolitan park is concerned, environmental and educational activities and the development of a social economy "Antonis Tritsis" are concerned, we will say that it is the largest metropolitan park in Athens, a total area of less than a thousand acres and is the largest environmental awareness park in the Balkans. It is well known - and especially for the inhabitants of western Athens - that there are years of abandonment, but fortunately the indifference and abandonment from previous governments and from a portion of local government - I am not talking about all the local government in the region - no longer exists. A ministerial decision was signed published on 10-3-2017, which puts an end to the demolition and degradation of the park with monthly revenues to the management body of the metropolitan park of 58,000 euros and that means something is beginning and something is going on in this park. The new management body created by Law 4414/2016 participates the Ministry of Environment and Energy, Attica, the Western Attica Development Association, Western Athens, local government, the friends of the park as a civil society, the Metsovio Polytechnics, the Agricultural School, etc. So I'd say there's a request from the board of the park management body. From 10-11-2016 it has taken a decision to propose to the Ministry the establishment and operation of an Environmental Education Centre, including the infrastructure. Under document number 79 of 16 May 2017, a management body asks the Ministry of Education for this approval. Of course, it's not just a request from the park operator. It is a demand for both the local society and all of western Athens - to say it better - which really calls for the establishment of the EIC. How does the Ministry deal with this, and how do you intend to respond as head of the Ministry of Education’s authority to the request of the institution and the inhabitants of the wider region?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u46	Minister, here you go, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. I will not argue in favour of environmental education centres. For all the things you've said, I do too. In Attica you know that there are four such centres in Argyroupoli, Drapetsona, Lavrio and Elefsina. As to the operation of the HICP in the Tritsis Park, the good news is that it is in my office for signature. I checked it out this morning. He's been through all the services. You know, it's a complicated process, so it means that it will leave my office tomorrow or tomorrow, after we do the final checks and proceed to the publication in the Official Journal of the Government, etc., so we obviously have accepted the request and hopefully it has positive effects on both the region and the local community.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u48	Good. Laconian the Minister and the second timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u49	Two at two, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u50	Sure. Excellent, Minister tonight. Here you go, Mrs. Kafantari.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u51	Your position is very positive and of course the Minister's response to this issue is very important. I just wanted to add a few things to say about how this Environmental Education Center in the Tritsis Park can be particularly efficient and workable. First, the metropolitan park “Antonis Tritsis” is the only park in Greece that, according to the purpose of its establishment, is to provide the educational community and the wider social groups with information and education on environmental issues. Secondly, the park's very ecosystem is very important with its natural and artificial characteristics, trees, wetlands, lake ecosystems, historical buildings that exist inside. All this is an ideal field of research and study in the context of sustainability education and enables students and social groups in the region really to be trained on the logic and ways of protecting the environment and sustainable development that we are all talking about. I will also say that West Athens, the afflicted western Athens, with schooling in primary and secondary education around the seventy thousand people, is the only address to which there was no RCF, given that each RCF is obliged to offer most of its working time and provision of services to schools and teachers. I should also add that in the Tritsis park, the exhibition "Baby of seeds, old seeds for new crops", which is the title of Greek participation in the 12th Venice Architecture Biennale of 2010, is hosted. I would also like to say, as I said before, that the centre is also a request from the wider region, the movements, the inhabitants of western Athens, and that is of particular importance. It also has infrastructure and that is another element. There's building infrastructure, two-storey building with large, small rooms, six large, but let's not get into numerology. There is a corresponding infrastructure, there is equipment, another important issue, furniture, administrative spaces, electronic equipment, etc. This is where I'm going to say something else. So far, the "Thirtice" Park has been served by two main roads, from Thebes Avenue and from the avenue of the Republic and Attica Street for all school units in Attica, west Attica. Also from Boeotia can come people to watch, etc. The most important thing, however, is that, in a question we have tabled - I, along with a colleague, Mr Karastasis - two months ago the Minister responsible for Transport told us that he also intends to make a metro stop at the Tritsis Park. It will be included in line 4, when it is extended, i.e. not this year, in 2017, the metro stop, but it is in design...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u52	The metro stop, you know, neither in 2018 nor in 2019...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u53	Okay, in 2018 I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u54	But please finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u55	There is, however, the commitment, which is even more important for how the space of the metropolitan park "Antonis Tritsis" can really be emerged, and how it can function efficiently for all of Athens, the students, the local communities and the creation of this centre. Thank you for the immediate response, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u56	Thank you. Minister, you were clear, but of course you have the right to fill in something, if you please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u57	I have nothing to add, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u58	Thank you very much. The third question, with number 1006/6-2-2018, will be discussed at the second time by the Member of the Communist Party of Greece, Ioannis Giokas, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the problems of the students. Mr Gioka, you have the floor and you have a relative tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, as has been said, the issue of the current question concerns the problems of the students' homes both in Athens and in the rest of Greece, which are really explosive in recent years. These problems come mainly to the surface and to the public on the grounds of security incidents in these outbreaks, which, in our opinion, are real and which cannot be dealt with either under conditionality or much more in terms of repression, but these problems are not the only ones. There are serious infrastructure problems, issues relating to the feeding of farmers, cleanliness issues, issues of occupational insecurity of workers, because a number of restaurant services have been provided and have been entrusted to private companies and contractors. The text of the timely question has specific examples which are, of course, the most characteristic, but are not the only ones for such problems. For example: Student homes from Athens do not have the right to feed at the restaurant of the home for months. Families at the N.C.E.E.D.'s do not have hot water or at the areas where Rethymno and Chalkidas are provided a few hours a day. Families in eight of the fifteen buildings of the new homes of the National Technical University have no heating. In the rest of Greece there are problems with infrastructure, boilers, electrical facilities, laundry shortages, unconscious buildings, images of total abandonment actually referring to third-world situations. The most serious problem of course has to do with the fact that, at the moment when we are talking about the serious problems facing our people, families lacking to be able to study their children, the percentage of students covered by the homes is 9%, so too many young people and young people are forced to leave their homes or to leave their homes for a second and third time. This is therefore the question of what measures the government will take to solve the problems of the owners, increase the state funding, leave the contractors from the homes and make the necessary recruitment of permanent staff, meet the needs of students for free accommodation by building a focus on the state's responsibility and, of course, move - because this is an additional problem - to at least a temporary free stay of students in hotels until the rooms required in the homes are found. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u60	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u61	I won't defend that everything's fine at home. I cannot, however, share the catastrophe involved in your question, precisely because we have done a very systematic investigation into what is going on in the various fountains and the picture is contradictory, but not in your direction. Secondly, you know that two, two and a half months ago for at least one month was occupied by the central building of INEDIDIS. We made an appeal at that time to the political forces to take a stand on this and silence was impressive, including your own party. Occupation took everything back, apart from the fact that I consider it unacceptable that an institution whose object is to try to improve the situation in the outbreaks should be occupied. For the specifics you said, PAPATE does not seem to have such a problem as what you say, and so does the Crete TEI. Things seem to be much improved. I understand that there are serious problems in Patras and serious problems in the University of Crete. On the other hand, however, at the University of Athens and at the Polytechnics, problems with hot water have improved, the other problems relating to disinfection, etc., have improved and we need to communicate, Mr Giokas, especially with your own party for certain things. The country is going through an extremely serious budgetary crisis. For decades there have been billions of people's hands, and in the end we have not had the infrastructure we need to have. We have a plan. Do you want to contribute, even in criticism of this plan, to improving it? However, the question of restaurants cannot, as you say, be a direct solution to the problems of scientists. We need to find a way. We have a plan that we are starting slowly to implement in the current situation, which will improve after August 2018. And if there is an improvement proposal, a proposal that can be solved, we are very open. This logic, however, that out there dominates the most third world, the most unacceptable, is - unfortunately, I would say - and with the New Democracy's positions that you cannot enter the universities, because from morning until night there is infrastructurality, because the curriculum is not modern, etc. Let us all defend our higher education as it has evolved in time and has a great deal of good, and there are some things that certainly need to be improved. As to what you said, it is indeed a problem. It's a serious percentage. Even a family should be treated. For economic reasons, many families cannot send their children to university. We in the law that we will testify for the University of West Attica, will, as you may have read, ensure that brothers and sisters who are from very low income families can come to their parents' homes. And if there's no university there, make sure they go somewhere, so they have an enhanced housing allowance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u62	The Member, Mr Koumoutsakos, seeks permission from abroad from 15-02-2018 to 23-02-2018. Also, Mr. Marios Georgiadis, I'm Vice-President of the Parliament, seeks permission from absence from 14-02-2018 to 15-02-2018 for personal reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u63	The House therefore approved the requested authorisations. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known in this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been informed about the history of the building, thirty-five students and students and three trainers from the 3rd General High School of Ioannina. From the nice, Jannah! Welcome to Athens and the Greek Parliament. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Giokas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u64	It seems to me that the encouragement for us to agree in particular. We are tabling a series of problems. And we do not, Minister, or destroy. These problems are identified first of all - we take them from there - by the associations of the scientists who exist. Unless you want us to abolish collective representation at universities, abolish the associations of scientists and accept the image that the relevant ministry gives. In recent times there have been specific incidents. The most characteristic, but not the only one - apart from what we refer to in the current question - was the interruption for two months of student-student feedingstuffs across Greece, with the exception of a minimum of exceptions. And there was no cause for the occupation of INEDIBIM. Others were the reasons. And as far as I know, there was also a replacement for INEDIABIM's command, which you had placed a while ago. Therefore, it was not the captivity of the cause. These problems, however, are identified by the mobilisations made by the boards of scientists themselves. So I don't get it. I am also impressed by this rhetoric that we are destroying or by the gatherings that we are identified with the New Democracy. Are you serious? What's that thing? This is how you deal with the associations of scientists, the children they claim to fight for? I am amazed at all the logic on the basis of which you are answering this question, when we raise specific problems. Secondly, you say about the New Democracy. The levels of funding for INEDIDIS - which is responsible for the outbreaks - are the ones left by the New Democracy. So you're following this policy. You are talking about surpluses and at the same time you are undermining a series of aspects of both education and student care, which are experienced by students and students. So do not try to present a reality that does not exist. Secondly, to show you that you are wrong with what you are saying, Minister, a move was made on January 25 by associations of visitors from the Athens outbreaks to the central offices of INEDIBIM. Following this mobilisation, there was a communication on the part of the Chairman of the Management Board and a number of commitments on a number of issues that could be dealt with. With the exception of some, which are indeed being solved - you could say at least that - after of course the student's mobilisations, most of the answers and commitments from the president's side are arrivals. Attributes say: "For the renovation of the second FIFG, it is the subject of responsibilities of the EMCDDA", that is, it refers to the institutions. "Supporting staff will begin immediately. As regards water pipes, the recovery process shall be promoted as a priority. A study will be commissioned within a reasonable period of time. The relevant funds for public space equipment will be approved immediately after the relevant requests have been made.’; The vast majority of commitments are that. They are arrivals, as I say, 'within a reasonable period of time', and though, and we will see and go saying. The following is also the case: students of ball are made literally between the Ministry of Education, INEDIBIM and the administrations of the institutions. Here is one question, for example, that there should be a central responsibility, not this fragmentation of responsibility in institutions, institutes, ministries, etc., which, in the end, result in students becoming a ball. However, what we are saying is that it is not a technical problem. The problem is political and it has to do with a timeless policy that you too are following, which today has actually taken explosive proportions, of course from region to region and from institution to institution with fluctuations. That is, in our view, the problem, Mr Minister, you must answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u65	Thank you. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u66	Look, first of all it seems to you that we should come to an agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u67	The'special' to us, not the appeal. 'Specially'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u68	Now you're gonna let me talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u69	Mr. Gioka, leave him a minute. Don't interrupt. Your Minister listened patiently.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u70	I would like to say that your reaction seems to me, because in a democratic society it is not a shame to consult. You cannot understand that. There seems to be something that the DNA reacts to this call for consultation. The second is the following: Look, when you say "families at the students' home, you face bugs in the mattresses", "at the outbreaks of the Chalkida TEI and ASAP sobes hang over the heads of the students", or we will both go to see whether or not this is true or we will accept what the institutions responsible say, i.e. they are completely false.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u71	Deal, let's go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u72	It's not your fault. And you got it for me. It's done, it's part of a small pathogen of democracy. What I'm trying to tell you is that disaster does not help us to convey the image to the Greek people. I first told you that we need to see the whole education system in its contradictions. Some are operating more positively, for some we have to take too many steps. I'll tell you that first. But I'm telling you something else. We asked then for the children to leave - we did not even call the police - from the occupation. Why did there not be a public position on an occupation that was being madly delayed by INEDIBIM to proceed with these things? So, on the one hand, silence on something and on the other hand, we can say that the President of INEDIBIM said 'in a reasonable time'. What's that supposed to mean? On the 22nd? Unless you don't know how these procedures are being done. However, what we both have to agree on is that the Greek state has been very back on student care issues. The subject of student care cannot be solved by pressing a button. He wants one, at least, ten years of programming. We, as I have said before, will present our plan for this ten-year planning at the end of May, because they are not made by complaints or announcements. You also know that many schools and many universities, however strange they may sound to you, do not have permission to build many of the buildings that exist. So here, there are pathogens of crazy decades. We say, then, that we must make a programme costly with the timetable, with commitments in this respect and, in the meantime, deal with the problems, some of which you clearly describe, so that children do not suffer from this for decades and have been on the autopilot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u73	We're coming to the last question about Mr. Gabroglou. It is the second question with number 1643/29-11-2017 question of the circle of petitions and questions by the Deputy Drama of the New Democracy Mr. Dimitrios Kyriazides on the subject: "Authorisation of the President of the Department of Oenology and Drink Technology of the TEI of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace". Mr. Cryazides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u74	Thank you very much, Mr President. Today's up-to-date I would say that it is a change in a question pending from November, Minister, and I would like to inform you with particular grief and concern about the events that took place at the Oenology and Drink Technology Department of the Eastern Macedonia and Thrace where, as reported to me by genuinely inappropriate, sudden and controlled legality actions by the TEI administration, the President of the Department, Mr Mamalis, a university official whose offer to the institution is widely recognised, through unprecedented procedures yesterday, without legal composition - a representation of a student representative whose presentation was not completed - without the mission of a agenda, which is unknown if it is drafted, without the distribution of a relevant report and, above all, without consultation between the institutions involved in and outside TEI. Rectorship decided to remove a pioneer president from a department that is inextricably linked to its name. As you know, his own effort has the effect of attracting a large number of students to this TEI, so it is a jewel, I would say, of the university community. Obviously, of course, its public positions and reports on the future of the department and, above all, its vertical reaction to any merger or transfer to other university units were not excellent. As it turns out, these voices of resistance and protest to a debauching plan of the department and ultimately of depreciation had to be drowned. And all this at a time when the subordinated and falsified by the Oenology Department's TEI administration has an amazing offer. Minister, I also present you with the resolution of the students, who are unanimous, and the educational staff and the Drama Association. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitris Kyriazides, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You ask yourself, Mr Minister: did this come to an end in the Ministry's knowledge? What is the official position on this? Will the Ministry intervene in the context of the supervision and how will this be done in order to restore legality and peace in the university community? Secondly - and more fundamentally, perhaps - are there plans for the abolition, transfer or merger of the Oenology and Drinks Department in other university units within or outside Eastern Macedonia and Thrace? Given the upward trend in this section, its link with the local society and production, the achievements and the generally high evaluation of the section, the great scientific interest which this presents and requires that drama remains in Drama, of course we would like to hear what exactly you intend and the second important issue and question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u75	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u76	Let's start by whether there was a pull-out, arbitrary removal, etc. The term of office of this colleague had expired in May. The law granted the right to extend until November 30th. So, whatever happened, it became legal. Only if we don't like the result. But don't make any impressions that again at universities and at TEI dominates chaos. So it's all legal. Now, what exactly happened? Presidents of non-self-government departments - and to become a self-powered section, must have at least eight teachers - appointed by the administration. They're not elected. There is no minimum number of teachers to elect the presidents. Here, then, the administration takes a person from a department and asks it to be a temporary president until this department becomes self-reliance. It is customary not to ask often the same person to be president, for this man has huge responsibilities, plus all the work he does in his own part of it. Plus, it is important within the university, that individuals be altered, so that they can gain experience, etc. And can I tell you something? The administration hadn't given positions to this department in years. We now have five hundred plus five hundred positions we have in universities. From the first five hundred he gave no position, from the second five hundred the administration gave. We cannot do anything, and we can well do it, because it is not a legal matter, it is a fundamental matter. Universities and TEIs know their problems and so they have to act. So here we must be very careful not to create a climate of tension where there is no. I read the student protests. It is a protest that has to do with the person of this colleague. I, in reading both his curriculum and his academic and social course, understand that he is an esteemed colleague, and I think I had met him when I was upstairs and visited the TEI. Such administrative decisions should not be translated as a result of personal disputes, etc. So, in my opinion, nothing has happened to say that the administration is to blame or something heavy anti-academic. Now that this fellow Member would like to continue and the administration did not accept this and put someone else in, these things must be accepted as part of our democracy again. As I do not want to go far enough, Mr President, I shall answer the question of what will happen with the transformation of the TEIs.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u77	Mr. Cryazides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u78	Mr President, I understand the difficulty in terms of supervision. But when you referred to the fact that twenty-three trainers were placed last year as permanent staff, and in this section a single political engineer was placed and the administration takes away the one you mentioned, I understand how this department will work unless you want to close down. This is another case, but, as you can see, with one person - and this political engineer - it cannot operate a department of oenology that is in a development phase, which individuals have offered to create a winery so that the five hundred students can be trained. This creates a huge problem. On the other hand, Minister, you will allow me to say that on your own, without any consultation with the university community, there is talk of the mergers of the departments, as well as the transfer of this TEI to educational institutions in Thessaloniki. There is also talk of the creation of a fourth Law School. In other words, since Democritus, where is the third Law School, we are also heading to a fourth school in Patras. As you already know - you have committed yourself to this - the General Assembly of the Department of Law of Democrat Law is responding to this issue, namely the establishment of a new Law School, because this conflicts with the need to limit graduates' classes that professional Greek society can absorb in conjunction with the dramatic reduction in expenditure, etc., as far as higher education is concerned. The same in the law of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace, where the matter was raised the other day, staying on these specific issues. The Prime Minister was at these regional conferences that you held as SYRIZA and was committed to upgrading the Democritus. Now we see the opposite happens, Minister. In any case, because there is more law in the whole country, I would say that it was not appropriate to report you or to try to create a fourth new law school. In fact, if there were any need for legal coverage from new scientists, then one would say that, in any case, it can be accepted. I would therefore ask that, on one issue and on the other, we have a position from you and at any rate, what the Prime Minister has promised in our region to be an act and not just to remain in simple commitments and promises.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u79	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kyriazidis, if you send your own first-hand speech and dentology to any site, I hope you have my own answers so that the debate will make sense.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u81	That's why we're here, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u82	I say you put my answers too, because I'm not sending anyone what I'm saying. I mean on websites etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u83	I will, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u84	I'm very pleased.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u85	If it's positive, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u86	They'll answer your questions. First, thirteen seats were originally assigned and eleven seats were then assigned. These are given to universities with an algorithm. If the administration within the TEI has now shared it in a way that you disagree with, the Ministry is very well not interfering with it. Good, 'cause you imagine a ministry in a democratic country intervening at such a micromagnetic level. It can't be done. You understand that, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u87	You're interfering. And in Macedonia you intervened.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u88	Mr. Cryazides, let's hear the answer. In any case, what you say is not recorded.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u89	No, no, that's what matters. Nor have previous governments intervened in the internal distribution of each institution.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u90	Supervise.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u91	We are supervising the legitimacy of the elections. We are not supervising whether five more positions should be given to this section and good, as the previous governments have done, which you obviously do not know. Secondly, what is going on with the TEIs, what's going on with the Law School? Let's start with the Law School. I find it completely unfair, when all the Law Schools each year complain that they have too many children in amphitheatres. So why should the number of importers not remain the same and instead of going to three, go to four? Why shouldn't it be done? I don't understand that, except in opposition. Because this happens every year. Unless you come out and say decrease the number of importers. The role of universities is not only to form for children to find jobs. The universities...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u92	The whole community is protesting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u93	The community protested. I will see, in fact, on Thursday evening the lawyers, etc., who understood the argument. Can I tell you something? Your party is very in favour of competition. Isn't that right? In other words, competition brings something good, that especially in education, if we do like business, education will progress. A splendid field of glory, then! Instead of saying 'Why do you do it?', which we want to decongested, to compete with the foundations on your own logic, not ours, so that the children can go there voluntarily. On the other issue, look, there is no absolutely forgotten decision on what is going to happen with TEIs and universities. What we do and have acted impressively well is: at the Ionian Islands TEI and at the Ionian University of Epirus, at the University of Ioannina, at the University of Thessaly, at the Thessaly TEI and at the Central Greece TEI, as well as last week at the TEI of Western Greece and at the University of Patras, including both TEIs in Athens, what we did is set up a working group to tell us themselves, TEIs and universities together, how they see their own future. In Yannina, for example, as in the Ionian Sea, we have a unanimous decision of representatives of the TEIs and representatives of the universities. We have difficult discussions, etc. But let's go with that logic. We have unanimous decisions of the conferences of the Piraeus TEI and the Athens TEI. What's the Department doing? He takes the findings and takes the political decisions on initiatives and timetables. What we are saying is that there is no decision at all, because there is still no working group to discuss with the Democrat University of Thrace in relation to the rest of the TEIs, the two TEIs we have both in Kavala and in Serres. There's the Thessaloniki TEI. There's the International University. These are great wealth for our country. Alas, if, as was done with the 'Athena' project, we finally said: 'This closes'. That one's opening. To get the other one over there" etc. We'd mess it up, as it became a sea, and we can't get them out yet. In that sense, I urge colleagues there - indeed, I understand that they are in the process - to sit on a table, bring their proposals after all they want, and on that basis to see what will be the next day.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u94	As long as you don't make them oceans, if we screwed up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u95	I'm not going to answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I see Mr. Kremastino, Mr. Gavroglou. We have to tell you the two doctors, now, that the number of doctors we have in Greece is like having a population of 20 million. It is therefore not just the number, but it is the quality of what we are making. 'Cause then we all cry together that they're leaving and going to Germany. This is personal in terms of experience. Don't charge it to the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u97	You will allow me to say this, which I think helps in the debate: Last year, if you remember, we dared to reduce the number of people admitted to medical schools. You remember that. All the opposing press thought we were... What did we do? We said the reduction should be 50%, like last year, and it should be this year and so forth. The question of admissionees, especially the Medical School, because we have seven medical schools...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u98	It's the same thing with lawyers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u99	You know, it's a little different. It's the engineers and the doctors.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u100	Don't be late for our colleagues...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u101	Our best scholars and many who have dealt with society on many levels come from legal schools. This, too, is a very interesting parameter.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u102	Perhaps you should take the initiative, and at some point in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, to discuss these issues. Thank you, Minister, for the presence. For the last two questions, the Deputy Minister of Finance has come Mrs. Catherine Papanatziou. First we will discuss the third question with number 980/5-2-2018 first-round question from the First Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Loss for benefit from the night-end and increased VAT on the islands". Mr. Kremastein, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr President. I have the impression, Minister, that Greek tourism should be owed thanks to friends Turkey, because with its internal and foreign policy it keeps us competitive in tourism. So we can give the same services, with the same hotel quality next to Turkey at higher prices and have the tourist current we have. Why is it simply that the foreign tourist feels insecure to go to an area, where, for example, various internal groups operate with the regime that exists, but also the Kurds, with whom Turkey is currently in war. So that is a good thing for us. Unfortunately, it's not for the world, of course, but for Greek tourism it is. I had asked a similar question and you said that the government will consider how things are going and will make legislative arrangements to cover this weakness. The question today comes because I am going to present you with a report from the GRANT THORNTON, which is well known to everyone, which says that only from the night-end - and not from VAT, which has reached 24% - which each foreigner pays to spend the night at our hotels, which is EUR 1 to 4, depending on the hotel, while we have a financial benefit of 84 million, says that we will have a loss of 340 million and six thousand, seventy-four jobs. This is only the case since the night-end and not the VAT. So I am particularly impressed by this and because it comes clearly from a company which does not policy - to say it clearly - I am curious to hear how you think about it at the Ministry and how, in cooperation with the Minister, my friend Mr Tsakalotos, will answer this question, not to me personally, but to everyone who is concerned. In particular, the workers are concerned and not the hoteliers so much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u104	Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr President. Regarding your timely question today, I would like to remind you that this particular night's fee was passed by the Greek Parliament on 22-5-2016 with L.4389/2016, which was introduced as a residence tax, valid from 1-1-2018. In particular, the provisions of Article 53 of the Act were amended and applied in the recent resolution of Law 4514/30-1-2018 that the residence tax is levied per day and per room or apartment as follows: In main hotel accommodations of EUR 0,50 or two stars, three stars of EUR 1,50, four stars of EUR 3, five stars of EUR 4 and in furnished rooms and apartments of EUR 0,50. This tax shall be borne by the person who made use of the room or the compartment and shall be charged after the accommodation and before leaving the undertaking concerned, without any charge on VAT. Of course, the residence tax is not imposed if we are free to provide accommodation services by the above companies. The above tax measures were adopted in order to continue to finance the country as their legislation is part of budgetary adjustment interventions. Therefore, the provisions are commitments in order to implement the agreement with the European Stability Mechanism and to ensure the financing of the country. However, I would like to inform you of something, which you are obviously aware of, because you are also traveling, that this tax, the specific residence fee, exists in other countries, in many cities, such as Amsterdam, Lisbon, Paris, Berlin, and it is from a long time ago. It's nothing new. Because in your question you also referred to the increase in VAT on the islands, I would like to remind all of us that with Law 4509/2017 the system of reduced VAT in Lero, Lesvos, Kos, Samos and Chios has been extended until 30 June 2018, precisely for their smooth transition to the new data, as they are admittedly affected by the refugee crisis and play a major role in managing the refugee flows. This is the second time that an extension is given. I would also like to say that we are working on various scenarios in order to see some targeted measures to protect the economically weak inhabitants of these regions in return for the negative consequences of the abolition of the reduced VAT rates. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] Because my time is running out, I'm going to go back to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u106	Madam Secretary, you should answer the question of the evidence presented by Mr Kremastinos because, while you said that the law was passed to increase revenue, the study referred to by Mr Kremastinos, if I understood correctly, says exactly what is happening. I'll give you a minute extra so Mr. Kremastino can make a complete placement.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u107	As far as the evidence is concerned, it is really a worthwhile company, but it was not in the question that Mr Kremastinos had put before us, so that we could process them and get an answer now. We will process them and I commit, some other time in this House, to be able to answer you. Well, we'll take them into account. You bet.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u108	Mr. Kremastein, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u109	I am pleased about the answer you are saying, but to be honest, I would like to hear it today, because I had asked the previous question. I am pleased, however, that you recognise that answers must be given to these issues. What we have to say - you know it, but to understand it too - is that, yes, it pays, as in other countries, the one making use of the room, that is, the tourist - just to say it - but actually the price goes up. And when the price rises, it becomes uncompetitive tourism with the other hotels in the Turkish friend country, which separates them one, one and a half miles from the Aegean islands today. What does that mean? It means that you can, if you feel as safe in both Turkey and Greece, prefer the same hotel at best price. The consequences, which will have on workers - and less on hotel operators - I repeat that they will also be tragic in terms of redundancies, etc. That is why I ask her more, so as to give more consideration to the Ministry, to bring the compensatory measures to the House more quickly so that all of them can be competitive. We are happy to hear the Minister for Tourism celebrate, but we all know that this festival is about this particular period, which will at some point have an end in terms of Turkish hostilities with its neighbours. Then our weakness will also appear, not necessarily the government, the weakness of the country and, above all, the revenue that the country expects to have from this whole story. Therefore, I have the impression that, in my question, I am rather helpful in the reflection, which I am sure you are facing, and I would ask you, if you can, in your dentures to tell us about when these measures will be defined, which will be announced by the Treasury, so that we too can help.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u110	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u111	With regard to the night's fee, I would like to inform you that our Ministry has worked with the relevant ministries, as you mentioned before, with the Ministry of Tourism and the other bodies, so that our country can maintain and strengthen its competitiveness, as well as the high quality of our national tourism product. We are already working with the Ministry of Tourism to review the end of the night when the economic conditions and financial situation of our country allow it. In any case, the Ministry of Finance shall assess the impact and effectiveness of the tax policy pursued and, if necessary, make targeted changes, in line with social justice, sustainable development and the achievement of budgetary objectives. As far as all that has been said before, I think that the results of tourism are disgusting for this year. We will see them, Mr Kremastinos, because the previous period has again said the same thing, and at the end, tourism has been at the same time as everyone has been denied. I hope the evidence is what we will have this year.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u112	We shall conclude with the debate on the last question today. The third question by number 895/2-11-2017 by MP II of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The need to rationalise the number and the minimum amount of payment of the instalments of inheritance, donations and parental benefits". The Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Catherine Papanatziou, will answer. Nice topic, Mr. Carras. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u113	Thank you very much, Mr President. About three months ago, I asked the Ministry of Finance a question on this matter. In other words, given that the Act on the taxation of inheritances, donations and parental benefits has been in force since the beginning of 2010 and had established a number of tax-pays, twelve bi-monthly instalments - that is, within two years, it should be repaid - at the same time it also established a minimum per instalment of payment of EUR 500. It was clear - and I have received many complaints from interested parties, Mr President - that the economic conditions, as established after the first, second and third memorandums, were unbearable, even though in 2010 a satisfactory tax-free figure was introduced, because this tax obligation was accumulated at the same time as the property taxes imposed - and I am referring to the EDPS and HICP - by increasing the rent tax, which had become 15% and 35% of the purchased rents, with the indifference of the property, which had taken place, because the market is not moving further, because we have too many empty apartments and shops, due to small economic activity. I then addressed the Ministry with a question and asked for a change in the time when the instalments were paid and for the minimum amount to be reduced. Unfortunately, I have to say - and I am sorry to say - regarding the reply I received from the Independent Public Revenue Authority - and here you will allow me a minimum framework of comment. Since the Ministry exercises the policy, while the Independent Authority for Public Revenue has the responsibility of collecting and maintaining the financial balance - that it should not be allowed in parliamentary control to limit itself to the replies of the Independent Authority for Public Revenue, but rather to reply to the Ministry of Finance itself. So I would point out to the Minister the question, and I say that the number of doses should be increased and the minimum amount of payment should be reduced so that they can respond. Unfortunately, the legacy tax, parental provision or donation does not only accompany the provision of the real estate, but also has all the tax charges that follow the property. On this subject, I would like the reply of the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u114	Here you go, Mrs. Papanatsiou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to point out regarding the law on the taxation of inheritances, donations and parental benefits, L.3815/2010, the relevant tax has not increased. On the other hand, the autonomous taxation of immovable property previously in force was abolished, so that the great property favoured in the previous period no longer benefited. Let's see now how the inheritance tax law is. There is the institution of progressiveity. We believe it is very important with the introduction of the calculation scale so that the calculation of the tax is more favourable to the relatives of a category one - which is the direct family - and higher for the most distant relatives in category b. Also, the same law increased the tax exemption from EUR 95 000 to EUR 150 000 for the first category of heirs, donors and children, and from EUR 20 000 to EUR 30 000 for the second category, such as nephews. You know that much better than I do.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u116	I don't question it either.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u117	And a scale of tax calculation was established in the first category from 1% to 10% and for the second category rates of 5% to 20%. We should also note here that when the heir of the deceased, husband or minor children are inherited, the property inherited remains tax-free up to EUR 400 000 per beneficiary and, in addition, when the heir or heir has an invalidity of 67% or more, the tax due is reduced by 10%. I would also like here to mention the part of the objective, which has already begun, so that we can see new objective values in line with trade. We believe that, after that, the inheritance tax will be lower. The real estate value bank has been created, a database, which accepts data from all transfers and leases made so that we can shape the objective image of the market. Also, because you have asked some other questions - although you have not mentioned them in your speech - on the register of real estate transfers, I have to inform you that it has already been established by Law 4484/2017, with a view to drawing up statistical conclusions, on the purchase of real estate and in general on the monitoring and development of the market. Any person concerned may be informed through the application of the register. Gets a general picture around buying real estate for information purposes. Also, we from there can get the data later, so we can get a better picture of the objective values of the properties. Because time has passed, I think I can respond to the denunciation in terms of the doses that you have said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u118	Let's get any news, Madam Secretary. You said you started work on adjusting the objective values. Make it a little more specific, let's know. Here you go, Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u119	Mr President, what the Minister said, I do not doubt them. My point was, however, a different subject. That the legislation we are talking about, the inheritances of the year 2010, and to remind you that the date of publication of the law was 3 or 4 January 2010, streamlined the issue of doses and the minimum amount of each dose at that time. Today, however, we have spent seven years in the intervening period, which is essential. Taxes on immovable property have been added and I do not see in my question the charge as such from inheritance tax or parental income tax, from other taxes. I believe that property charges are now cumulative and that is why I call for them to be able to respond. Because, let's not forget, we have the annual HIS tax. As much as we said that we have reduced him to small property, the issue is that HNVIA has an additional tax, which is borne by the largest assets and is the property to be charged with the inheritance tax, beyond the tax limit that you have said. We are therefore making a large number of real estate out of the money market, due to tax burdens, and this has a negative impact on GDP as well. I shall continue and say my next comment under the present circumstances. The tax burden on immovable property has led - not to ask you, Minister, I am saying this as an argument only - to depreciate property and to the order of decommissioning made by heirs who say that they do not want us to be heirs. I would therefore add, Mr President, that they are also heirs of taxes, because if they are charged with the debts that have been created during the life of the inherited person, they are also charged with taxes and it is therefore impossible to respond to any property, as much as it is. And if we still have the impression that big real estate must have a tax ability, it can't have that, too, in budgetary revenue. I insist, and on this point, because if we streamline the number of instalments to thirty-six - which I propose - and, at the same time, the small taxes we reduce the monthly amount, they will be able to respond, and that will strengthen public revenues, which, unfortunately, are unfortunately lacking. Let me not remind you of the 100 billion who are being delayed by the Greeks from being unable to pay. They're not all strategic malpractices, as another ministry attempts to show them. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would also like to add this: with regard to the objective prices to be fixed, Madam Minister, you have, as a guide, a boulevard - let me finish the word and I shall end immediately, Mr President - the decision of the Council of State. I read a part of the reason for the decision of the Council of State of 21 May 2015, which I can table in the Minutes after: “In order to avoid a sudden fluctuation in the tax revenue of the State under the current unfavourable budgetary conditions, it considers that it should not be subject to cancellation, but to set a date”. What does that mean? In recognition of the fact that the courts cannot at present reduce prices on the grounds that they must continue to have such a return. And I will say this: that the Minister is not already aware of this, but I have two questions - which of course are addressed to the Minister of Justice - from June 14, 2017 and December 4, 2017 and has not received an answer. To sum up, therefore, so that I do not abuse any more time, I say that I am referring to the cumulative tax burden on the property that depreciates values and puts them out of transaction.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u120	It became clear, Mr. Carras.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u121	I will only say one word, Mr President. We are talking about 120 instalments for employees and pensioners in late tax debts. So give it to both the heirs and an additional reason, that this will put a great deal of money into the economy, given that you have also secured 3.5% of the budget surplus, which means that we will have no impact on a small change in the few tens of millions of inheritance taxes, which, if I am not mistaken, are 94 or 104 per year.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u122	Good. Thank you. Mr. Undersecretary, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u123	First of all, we refer to the S.H.E.'s decision. on 21-5-2015. By decision of the Deputy Minister of Finance in 2016, the objective values were adjusted in the in-project areas of the country, so that we have far fewer taxes that we had in the previous period. Furthermore, because we have again seen problems from the S.H.E., we are now adapting the objective values and harmonising them with trade, with the new legislation. Especially for this year, we use the valuers who are certified by the Ministry of Finance. They have already started assessments throughout the country. In some areas - in most of them - they are four and reach up to three or two in some areas basically in the fewer. Generally, Athens-Thessaloniki and the large urban centers, where there is a greater possibility and where the biggest problem is, we have four assessors. On 31 March it is the deadline we have to complete the project. It's a very difficult task, we all know it. The assessors are accredited and have knowledge and scientific training. However, since property sales in general are very few in the previous period, it is very difficult to work. We think we're going to work. From there on there there is the secondary committee, etc., so that where there will be great discrepancies to see how the project will develop. One issue you raised in relation to doses, we really think about it and we see it. We want to be able to help, especially in cases where they're in the first category, which are from parents to children, which to them is something that needs to be done...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u124	They have debts too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u125	That's right. We really think about it and it's something we can do in the next few days. We haven't come up with it in the next few days. We'll see the objective first, because from what I told you, it's something we can't have at the moment, to know how to deal with it. It's a tough project. We will first see the results from there and then in the next period, ending with the committee, if the financial area allows us, we could see some better treatment, at least for the first category, so that we can see more doses, so that they can manage their heritage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u126	Thank you. The topical and urgent debate is closed. I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament, in accordance with Article 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 on the Criminal Responsibility of the Ministers, as in force on 12/2/2018, a criminal case for the presiding Minister of Economy, Competitiveness and Shipping, as well as the Minister of Finance, Ioannis Stournara. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-12-S1-commons.u127	With the consent of the House at the time of 19.47 the sitting for Thursday, February 15, 2018, at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: (a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate and (b) legislative work, in accordance with the agenda to be distributed.
