ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-30-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Please tell the Secretary-General to announce the reports to the Department.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-30-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, before entering the legislative agenda, I would like to make some announcements to the Department. Prime Minister Tsipras writes to the President of the Parliament announces the discharge from the duties of the Deputy Minister for the Interior, Mr Nikolaos Toskas.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-30-S1-commons.u3	It is also announced to the Department that by letter the resignations submitted by those who no longer participate in the government scheme or have gone to other positions were accepted. The names of those appointed to the Governing Council shall be equally announced.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-30-S1-commons.u4	I also have the honour to announce to the Department that the Ministers for the Environment and Energy, Economic and Development, Foreign Affairs, Health, Finance, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime and Island Policy, as well as the Deputy Minister for Environment and Energy, tabled a draft law on 2-8-2018: 'Structuring amendments to the Convention on the Assessment of Environmental Effects in a cross-border context signed in Espoo, Finland in 1991 and ratified by n. Council Regulation (EC) No 2540/1997 (A' 249).' The Ministers for the Environment and Energy, Economy and Development, as well as the Deputy Ministers of Economy and Energy, submitted on 2-8-2018 a draft law: "Structuring the amendment, which was made in Kigali (Rouanda) on 10-15 October 2016, the Montreal Protocol of 1987, ratified by n. In the light of the above, the Commission has decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 93(2) of Regulation (EEC) No 1818/1988 (A' 253) in respect of substances that deplete the ozone layer.' The Ministers for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Home, Foreign, Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, National Defence, Finance, the Deputy Minister, as well as the Deputy Minister of Home Affairs, submitted on 2-8-2018 a draft law: ‘I) Termination of the Protocol under number 16 to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, II) Incorporation of Directive 2016/343 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 March 2016, III) Amendment of No.3251/2004 in accordance with Council Framework Decision 2002/584/JHA of 13 June 2002 on the part amended by Council Decision 2009/299/JHA of 26 February 2009, IV) Other provisions’. These draft laws were referred to the competent Standing Committees. The Standing Committee on Production and Trade also submits its reports to the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: A. JUDGMENTS OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE AND THE COURT OF FIRST INSTANCE OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES 'Preparation of amendments to the Convention on the Assessment of Environmental Effects in a cross-border context signed in Espoo in Finland in 1991 and ratified by Mr Espoo. Council Regulation (EC) No 2540/1997 (A' 249).' B. Other: ‘Preparation of the amendment made in Kigali (Rounda) on 10-15 October 2016 of the Montreal Protocol of 1987, ratified by Mr. In the light of the above, the Commission has decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 93(2) of Regulation (EEC) No 1818/1988 (A' 253) in respect of substances that deplete the ozone layer.'
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-30-S1-commons.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK 1. Generally speaking, the articles and the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: "Preparation of amendments to the Convention on environmental impact assessment in a cross-border context, signed at Espoo, Finland in 1991 and ratified by the Convention on environmental impact assessment in a cross-border context, signed at Espoo, Finland, in 1991. Council Regulation (EC) No 2540/1997 (A' 249)' and 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: "Follow the amendment made in Kigali (Rouanda) on 10-15 October 2016, the Montreal Protocol of 1987, ratified by n. In the light of the above, the Commission has decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 93(2) of Regulation (EEC) No 1818/1988 (A' 253) in respect of substances that deplete the ozone layer.' The above bills were passed by a majority vote in the Standing Committee and are introduced for discussion under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to the ratification of these agreements. Does a colleague from the parties who disagreed to take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-30-S1-commons.u6	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-30-S1-commons.u7	I'd like the floor, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-30-S1-commons.u8	Please, Mr. Panayotarus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-30-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Regarding the International Convention of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: "Follow the amendment made in Kigali, Rwanda, October 10-15, 2016, the Montreal Protocol of 1987, ratified by v. I have to say that there are very interesting issues in this Convention, many of which have not been formalised or certified. We would say that the most correct thing is that the issue is still at a research stage and that science has not yet come to a standstill on the causes of these climate change, rather than accepting de facto the conclusions of some scientists who may be rightly hitting the alarm, but possibly giving these phenomena to the wrong causes. We would like to say'residences' to this convention, because yes, we agree with the aims pursued, which are environmental protection at local, national, European and global levels, but we also maintain our reservations about the effectiveness of these provisions because of the scientific uncertainty of what is announced in the protocol. With regard to the International Convention of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: 'Preparation of amendments to the Convention on the Assessment of Environmental Effects in a cross-border context signed in Espoo, Finland in 1991 and ratified by the Convention. I would like to say that the convention in question is 'against', mainly because of the fact that we agree with the basic objectives of the Convention, while maintaining the reservations about its implementation in practice, we disagree with one of the amendments relating to non-governmental organisations for this purpose and we are 'in the process'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-30-S1-commons.u10	Thank you. Mr Katsotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-30-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. I was expecting one - one contract, but after both are discussed together, I would try to develop our positions on the first convention after the second one. The draft law on the ratification of the amendments to Espoo Finland for the assessment of environmental impacts in a cross-border context is known to have been signed in 1991 and ratified by the European Community in 1997, as by Greece in December 1997. The draft law provides for ratification of the first and second amendments adopted by the Contracting Parties at their second and third sessions in 2001 and 2004 respectively. The first amendment includes the participation of NGOs in the procurement procedures, which provides for public participation, and the right of accession is granted to countries which are not members of the Economic Commission of Europe with prior approval of the meeting of the Contracting Parties. The second amendment adds five project groups to the scope of the contract. It also includes a number of amendments extending the content of the contract to both procedures and transnational interventions. According to the Government, the amendments to the Convention create the necessary institutional framework for protecting the environment in our country because of possible adverse environmental impacts from projects and programmes that may be carried out in neighbouring countries and are not members of the Economic Commission for Europe in areas such as agriculture, energy, industry, mining, waste management, telecommunications and others, as well as the programmes that define the framework for future approvals of projects such as refineries, thermonuclear power stations, plants for production or enrichment, as well as other projects as listed in the Annex for which an environmental impact assessment is required. The JRC has repeatedly demonstrated and documented that the legislative work of the European Union and other transnational imperialist organisations and the environment in the context of today's ‘cyclical economy’, the efficiency of resources and green technologies is solely aimed at ensuring new profit margins for monopolistic groups. Within the framework of the European Union's strategic guidelines, directives, programmes and transnational agreements and protocols, the rate of profit of the monopolistic groups is to be achieved in the first place, the pillaging of the world's natural resources combined with the exploitation of the labour force of those working in the mining or otherwise taking them up, transporting them, transforming them, channeling them into the markets. It is the same framework where there is fertile soil and there is increasing frequency of major ecological and technological disasters, the continued deforestation of forests, the destruction of ecosystems and the bleeding of others, the depletion and qualitative deterioration of water resources, the overproduction of toxic and other hazardous waste in combination with their uncontrolled disposal, the catastrophic floods, pollution of seas with hydrocarbons, major industrial accidents, the gradual overheating of the planet as everything in capitalist production. Even protection against extreme physical phenomena is regulated on the basis of cost-benefit. In the same legislative framework, as incorporated and ratified on a case-by-case basis in the National Law and in the civil order of our country, they find a legal basis in time-to-year government policies with a disastrous impact on the health of the people and the environment. The examples are many: “Thriasio” has become a greenhouse for western Athens, the crime in the Graphic, the thousands of acres of the “ELLENIKIKI CRYS” investment in Halkidiki, the repeated forest fires and the floods that are often accompanied by human losses, the disasters from renewable energy sources, particularly in wind turbines, where every year thousands of acres with high environmental significance are provided to the wind turbulence groups. We refer to NATURA areas, shelters for wildlife, national parks and others. The industrial capital that sows the hazardous waste, liquid, solid, etc., the gradual transformation of cement industries into hazardous waste incineration plants, the reopening after twenty years of the death furnaces in Perama and the legitimisation of 'OIL ONE' to store and transport oil and process huge quantities of hazardous petroleum waste in Drapetsona. In addition, the ongoing exploratory situation in the management of urban and industrial waste, the effects of marine pollution, such as the recent 'Saint Zone' and much more. The Espoo Convention, which is shaped by both amendments, serves the general objectives of capital. Even worse, its cross-border character, at a time when monopolistic competition is particularly acute, poses an additional threat to the working class, farming and folklore, as it makes it easier for monopolistic groups active in neighbouring affected states to intervene in projects such as agriculture, energy, industry, mining, transport, waste management and, of course, may also be the case. There is nothing good about the people in the Balkans, which is a field of acute confrontation between imperialist geopolitical interests and pursuits. With this in mind, we are voting against the ratification of the convention with the amendments that you are proposing to vote on today. Mr President, I would like some time to refer to the Kigali Convention. Hydrofluorocarbons were widely used as a substitute for chlorofluorocarbons as refrigerating gases, mainly gases, due to their significantly lower impact on the expansion of the ozone hole. However, these substances are being activated as greenhouse gases, since they are alleged to be thousands of times more drastic in committing heat to the atmosphere in terms of carbon dioxide. But none of this is new. Since 1987, when the substitution of chlorofluorocarbons by hydrofluorocarbons began, it has been well known throughout the scientific world that some people were taking advantage of the ozone issue, but not in the matter of overheating. Of course, no one in the barbaric world of the transnational capitalist associations of the large multinationals, the imperialist organisations, the conferences and the conventions that followed did not address the issue. Why? Because the large monopolistic complexes in the chemical industry had already invested billions of dollars in the production of hydrofluorocarbons, looking forward to huge profits from the prohibition of sinful chlorofluorocarbons, since their technological lead over the competition of groups less appropriate or developing countries, such as India, Brazil and other places. Today, a few decades later, after the production of hydrofluorocarbons has been established internationally, the time has come to repeat the project with a little different scenario in their details. Hydrofluorocarbons must be withdrawn. This philology has been under way for some years now. The same groups, who in 1987 earned huge sums of the technological exclusivity of hydrofluorocarbons, are now the ones who are ready to do the same for their substitutes. Large multinational companies have already started producing new products. Apart from huge profits, we also have the pursuit of economic and geopolitical supremacy over opponents. For a number of economies, such as India and others, it will mean an eight to ten-fold increase in air conditioning costs. That is why a series of developing capitalist economies, such as India, Iran and others, were pushing for softer timetables, within 15 years, instead of the five years, for which the US and the European Union were pushing for. The final compromise in Kigali also obliges these countries to reduce the production and use of hydrofluorocarbons from 2028, that is, in a decade's depth, by 15%, as long as the US and the European Union do so by 2023. Regardless of this compromise, it is clear that the cost of the gigantic adaptation to cooling systems, especially in countries with a warm climate which have the problem, will be passed on to the people, significantly exacerbating their living conditions and financial burden. The increased costs of air conditioning and cooling, which will inevitably lead to the implementation of the Kigali Agreement, will further increase already unbearable for popular cargo families for the provision, maintenance and operation of air conditioning systems. Many dozens of small craft industries, which are objectively unable to implement economies of scale, in their production, through the application of large air-conditioning units, will bear costs disproportionate to their capacity to absorb them, so that the pressure on large groups in them is multiplied. This example speaks very eloquently of the reality of capitalism, capitalism that rots and dies even through its own development. It is a classic example of how scientific progress is being put into the service of maximising monopolistic super-kers and turning into a noose that eliminates poor populaces, workers, self-employed and small craftsmen, crushes and deepens the imbalance in the conditions under which small developing capitalist countries are part of the global imperialist labour division. It is a classic example of how capital does not hesitate to speculate on the ruins, which the same causes the environment, natural and human, always pretending that it solves the problems it created itself. And that is only until it creates the next one, to deal with which it will then sell the new solutions. The environment is at risk from this barbaric system, capitalism, its associations and its policies. The microbe causing fatal infection cannot be the medicine for the illness it causes. We are voting 'at present' in this Kigali Convention.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-30-S1-commons.u12	Thank you. There is no other speaker, Mr Famelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-30-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we have had an interesting debate in the committee we discussed the two conventions, so I am not going to go into many issues of the substance of the two sanctions. I think this is a positive moment for the Greek Parliament. We move on to ratification of two important conventions. One concerns environmental impacts and the other is typically about ozone issues, but essentially about climate change. I think, however, that I have to repeat some of the issues we have discussed, because I would also like them to be recorded in the Minutes, so that we can also inform the citizens and obviously also the parties that are here today. Environmental issues at global level are essential and crucial issues. They are linked inevitably to the survival of the planet and of the citizens, but also to the issues of growth and economy. I think it is a very clear non-scientific position to ignore and underestimate serious environmental issues. On the contrary, I would say that the agreement on the environment enables us to achieve a progressive political agreement at global level and that is our aim. We believe that both the objectives of sustainable development of the UN and the Paris Agreement are progressively political texts at world level, contribute to Greece and at national level. That is why, both at the level of environmental diplomacy and in the exercise of Greek environmental policy, we are clearly placed in these alliances. Sustainable development issues, for us, are very important. Greece has chosen to voluntarily present its progress on sustainable development at the recent UN high-level, ministerial level and Heads of State in New York on 15, 16 and 17 July, at which we had a very good assessment. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is about the fact that sustainable development is not just the environment. Sustainable development is about work, access to basic goods, access to health, welfare and education. They are the main objectives of sustainable development now for 2030 and, as you can see, they are drawn up and agreed at a very large level with our own political perspective and with the European political perspective. We believe that it is also the right response to the wrong and limited political level and to the point of view of the figures only, but at the same time they raised the gap in the area of access to work, health or education and how they create a new political level of cooperation both in Europe and worldwide. On the other hand, there is an agreement on the issue of climate change from the whole of the scientific, but also of the global political community. I find it absolutely unscientific, inhuman to hear within the Greek Parliament that there is no scientific documentation and agreement on climate change and its consequences. Love in man, love in progress, love in the environment first of all is based on strengthening the support of human life and health. It is incomprehensible to have political spaces within the Greek Parliament saying that there is no climate change data, when there is the World Intergovernmental Conference, which not only confirms the great problem of climate change, but unfortunately confirms that climate change is negative. We cannot, that is, as a global community, catch the target of less than two degrees Celsius and we must have greater political vigilance and more concrete measures for climate change. I therefore consider it unacceptable and - if you will - that I am completely opposed to completely unscientific, but, above all, to logic that is against human beings, its values and the environment, as has been said before. On the other hand, however, I would very much like to make another distinction. It is a fact that economic activity and human activity have an impact on the environment. We probably live in a barbaric world, in a world that has arisen from the development of monopolistic associations or businesses, but also societies. I would like to ask, however, one question: in this world in which we live, the world with the many contradictions and, at the same time, the great advances in science and technology and economic forms, we must not make available to the citizens of all the social classes, classes and workers all the scientific, administrative and political tools for protecting the environment. Is it possible for a party progressive, a party with such history and tradition in struggles and science to refuse the scientific term of environmental control for the benefit of the working class? I've had a special impression on that, too. I would therefore like to tell you our view: since we have scientific knowledge but also global political agreements, we do not want them to be put to the benefit of possible economic groups, but rather for the benefit of societies, states and our country. Our country, therefore, all its workers and all its citizens, but also its neighbouring countries, and all the workers and citizens of neighbouring countries have to win by transnational agreements that enable cross-border environmental impacts to be controlled. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Because we, as well as the citizens of Albania, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Bulgaria, Turkey and all the countries of the Eastern Mediterranean, have the opportunity to gain from an agreement that enables us to have access to control and to make environmental conditions and environmental impacts for the operation of businesses. In fact, I would like to say, by commenting - if you like - another position I have heard, that the amendment to the Espoo Convention, which enables civil society to participate in this consultation - not only in the states but also in civil society - is an even more progressive step and achievement of the global political community, and that is why we also support it at political level. It enables, in other words, not only States to participate in a global debate, cross-border, on the impact of environmental and economic activities, but also civil society having a strengthened role. I too want to welcome - and, as a government, we welcome this option for civil society to have this strong role, because it is also possible for independent, autonomous movement voices to speak and participate in the social debate. Otherwise, by interrupting - if you wish - access to information, to express an opinion, to political and environmental employment by the social groups, we are restricting democracy. We want to open up democracy, people's cooperation and parallel progress, obviously with environmental equilibrium and sustainable development. We therefore have an obligation, knowing clearly that economic forms have access to scientific knowledge and strong scientific staff, to enable societies and states to develop their respective potential and to have the right to intervene. Because, as we have said in committees, monopolies, large multinational groups have scientific potential and have the routes - possibly many undergrounds - to interfere with the environmental impacts of other activities, other countries, in the context of competition. The citizens, the societies, the states and the states will not have that right? This enables us to achieve the Espoo Convention, that is to say to secure this possibility. In fact, I would say that at political level it is important that our country ratifys it at Parliament level because it declares in its neighbourhood that we also want the rest of our neighborhood to ratify this convention, something Turkey has not done. And we want all our neighbours to be in this 'family' of control, understanding and sustainable development. We share the same sea, share the same atmosphere, share the same life. We do not think that there are borders between citizens on the environment, on life and the right to it. On the contrary, we need to strengthen cross-border cooperation, because these are the ones that establish the climate of peace, which we consider to be the capital in human life. And I think that the Left also believes that, starting from the peace and cooperation of the peoples, we can achieve all the rest. In conclusion, I would like to say that the Kigali Treaty raises serious issues with regard to our financial and productive obligations. This is the debate we need to have. At this level we need to discuss, because there are major changes, since Greece is in the countries with the greatest obligations to reduce hydrofluorocarbons. Here too, there are serious import issues, both in terms of craftsmen and in terms of certification of professions. We, together with the Ministry of Finance, therefore, need to adopt an important ministerial decision by the end of the year on the economic activities being carried out in this area. And, of course, we need to discuss, in the essence of productive reconstruction, what professions, what activities, what businesses can be developed in Greece, so that we can invest in green growth in an economy that prevents emissions, prevents pollutants, prevents environmental impacts. This at the same time, in my view, gives two important features of progress in our policy: firstly, it will increase work with sustainable features. So we will have long-term work with a long-term product, which is progressive for Greece. Exiting from the Memorandum means long-term, sustainable work for all. Secondly, it will ensure quality of life and access to basic health and progress for all citizens as well. This is also a progressive asset that was not given in the previous period and was not guaranteed for all citizens. These great progressive changes in work for all, life for all and access to decisions for all are characteristic that both Europe and Greece today have in their priorities. And I believe that in this respect - with a wide-ranging interpretation, of course - these two conditions can contribute in that direction too. Ladies and gentlemen, if a criticism was made in the House today, it would be because we are late, because there are probably agreements here in 2001, which have not been brought to Parliament. I would have accepted that criticism. We're late. We must speed up and even though we are few today, we must give a message that the environment is a priority for Greece, it is a competitive advantage. It is not just health, it is growth, work and discrimination - if you like - of Greece. And obviously Greece must also be a pioneer in environmental agreements, but above all in the battle for climate change and a reduction in the impact of the greenhouse effect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-30-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, too. MEP Mr Panagiotis (Northern) Mitarakis asks for a absence abroad from Thursday 30 August 2018 until Saturday 1 September 2018. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-30-S1-commons.u15	The House therefore approved the requested permission. In addition, the Member, Mr Triantafyllidis Alexandros, is requesting a absence abroad from 14 September 201 to 18 September 2018. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-30-S1-commons.u16	The House therefore approved the requested permission. I have the honour to announce to the Department that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament, in accordance with Rule 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 "Priminal Responsibility of the Ministers" as applicable: The 7-8-2018 criminal court case regarding the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development Mr Alexis Haritsis. The 8-8-2018 penal lawsuit for Prime Ministers from 2008 to 2016, Mr. Konstantinos Karamanlis, Georgios Papandreou, Luke Papademos, Panagiotis Pikramenos, Antonis Samaras, Alexis Tsipras, Vassiliki Thanos and the Finance Ministers from 2008 to 2016, Mr. Georgios Papademos, Giannis Papathanasiou, George Papakonstantinou, Evangelos Venizelos, Philip Sahinides, George Zania, Yannis Stournaras, Gikas Hardouvelis, Yani Varoufakis and Euclidis Tsakalotou. And the 29-8-2018 criminal court case regarding the former Deputy Minister of Home Affairs responsible for Civil Protection Mr. Nikolaos Toskas and the Minister of Interior Mr. Panagiotis Skourletis, and a criminal litigation concerning the former Minister George Vulgarakis. Ladies and gentlemen, a single debate on the principle and the articles of the draft laws of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy is hereby declared at the end of the day and we move on to their vote separately. 'Preparation of amendments to the Convention on the Assessment of Environmental Effects in a cross-border context signed at Espoo in Finland in 1991 and ratified by No. Council Regulation (EC) No 2540/1997 (A' 249).' Questioned by the Department: Can the bill be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-30-S1-commons.u17	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-30-S1-commons.u18	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-30-S1-commons.u19	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-30-S1-commons.u20	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-30-S1-commons.u21	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-30-S1-commons.u22	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-30-S1-commons.u23	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-30-S1-commons.u24	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-30-S1-commons.u25	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: 'Preparation of amendments to the Convention on the Assessment of Environmental Effects in a cross-border context signed in Espoo, Finland in 1991 and ratified by the Convention. 2540/1997 (A' 249)’ has been accepted by a majority, in the first instance, of Articles and all of them, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-30-S1-commons.u26	We shall now proceed to the vote on the second bill. ‘Principle of the amendment made in Kigali (Rounda) on 10-15 October 2016 of the Montreal Protocol of 1987, ratified by n. In the light of the above, the Commission has decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 93(2) of Regulation (EEC) No 1818/1988 (A' 253) in respect of substances that deplete the ozone layer.' Questioned by the Department: Can the bill be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-30-S1-commons.u27	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-30-S1-commons.u28	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-30-S1-commons.u29	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-30-S1-commons.u30	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-30-S1-commons.u31	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-30-S1-commons.u32	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-30-S1-commons.u33	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-30-S1-commons.u34	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-30-S1-commons.u35	Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: "State the amendment made in Kigali (Rouda) on 10-15 October 2016, the Montreal Protocol of 1987, ratified by v. 1818/1988 (A' 253), on substances that deplete the ozone layer, was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of articles and all, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-30-S1-commons.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the Chamber to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-30-S1-commons.u37	The Department therefore granted the requested authorisation. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-30-S1-commons.u38	With the consent of the Department, 10.47' the meeting is closed.
