ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-10-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS The following topical questions will not be discussed in today's topical and urgent debate due to a workload of the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr Polakis: The second question under number 200/3-12-2018 is the first question of the Athens MP, Mr. Spyridonos - Adonidos Georgiadis, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: 'Regard the Radio Medicine'. The third, with number 192/30-11-2018, timely question by PASOK MP Laconia - DIMARMAR Mr. Leonidas Gregorakos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Delays in the delivery of patients from EKAV to Intensive Treatment Units due to a lack of medical personnel". The first under number 201/3-12-2018, a topical question from the New Democracy MP, Dimitrios Kyriazidis, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: “Creation of a Bran Branch / Oncological Clinic at the General Hospital of Drama”. The fourth under number 210/4-12-2018 topical question by MP of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Health, on the impact on the functioning of services and working conditions on services of the Venizeloi Hospital from the fire in the former buildings of the University of Crete on September 23. The eighth Question No 190/27-11-2018 dated the second edition of the F Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Georgeos Lambroulis to the Minister of Health, on the problems of the Larissa General Hospital. The twelfth under number 191/27-11-2018, a topical question by the Member of Parliament, Atolokarnania, of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister of Health, on "Problems in the functioning of the Centre for Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation (KEFIAP) Amphichia". In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the following questions will not be discussed due to the absence of the Minister of Finance Mr Tsakalotou abroad: The fourth question under number 208/4-12-2018 is the first-round question of the F' Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister of Finance concerning the redundant workers of the Associations of Agricultural Cooperatives (ESA) Larissa, Elassonas, Farsalon. The second, under number 203/4-12-2018, topical question by the Member of Parliament of the Republican Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The feasibility and moderation of the transfer to the supreme building required by the lenders of fifty of the public buildings in the Municipality of Pyrgos". The third, with number 209/4-12-2018, topical question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis, on the assignment of real estate to a Public Property Company (ETAD) - Treasury of the Private Property of the State (TADE). The question by number 2932/31-10-2018 question by MP II of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Finance, on "Democracy of the Municipal Closed Gymnasium of the 2nd High School of Athens". I would also like to inform you that the following questions will not be discussed because of the unsuccessful obligations of the Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Gerovalis: The fifth under No. 110/29-10-2018 topical question by MP Larissa of the New Democracy, Maximos Charakopoulos, to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: “New outbreaks of violence from marginal areas”. The sixth question by number 17722-11-2018 of the Second Cycle of the MP of the Democratic Compact PASOK - DMAR M.M.Michael Jelloni to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "Increased infringibility in Serres Law and the Serres Police Department has been subordinated." The thirteenth, with number 175/20-11-2018, topical question for the second cycle of MP II Piraeus of the Communist Party of Greece, Diamantos Manolakos to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "For the continuing murderous attacks of fastoids against migrant workers in the Municipality of Acharnon and Phylis." The fourteenth under No. 159/16-11-2018 topical question by Independent MEP II Thessaloniki Georgios Lazarides to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "The administration of responsibilities for handling and developing the surveys in the Bulgarians". I would also like to inform you that the following questions will not be discussed due to a workload of the Deputy Minister of Finance: The seventh question, No. 183/26-11-2018, topical question of the second question of the Parliamentary Kastoria of the New Democracy Mr. Maria Antonios to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: “Great damage to the Greek State due to the non-translocation of the IOY of Kastoria”. The tenth under number 178/23-11-2018, a topical question by MP II Athens of the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: 'Should our state finally protect our fellow citizens from being troubled by unjust claims by the public, which are made by realisation?' The following questions will not be discussed because of an impediment by the Minister of Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthos, as he is outside Athens: The ninth under number 184/26-11-2018, a topical question by the Member of Parliament, Achaias, New Democracy, Jason Fotilla, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: ‘Previous increase in cases and victims from the Western Nile virus’. Eleventh Question No 186/26-11-2018 by Mr Leonida Gregorakos, Member of the People's Party of the Democratic Alliance - Mr Leonida Gregorakos, Minister for Health, on the subject: "Limit situation in the National Health System". Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform the House that the Committee on the Rules of Procedure is tabling its report on the proposal from the President of the Greek Parliament: 'to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament (Part-Poland) and the motion for a resolution. 776/6041/25.11.2002 (OJ C 1502/B/2002) Decision of the President of Parliament.’ The Standing Committee on Social Affairs and the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs shall also present their report to the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity and to the Ministry of Finance: ‘Repeal of the provisions on reduction of pensions, incorporation into Greek legislation of Directive 2016/97/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 January 2016 on the distribution of insurance products and other provisions’. Finally, the following questions will not be discussed: The Fifteenth under number 99/24-10-2018 topical question by the Member of the People's League – Golden Dawn Mr Christos Papapas to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "The need to increase military service". The sixteenth, under number 55/11-10-2018, topical question by MP I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Nikolaou Kouzilou to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "The situation in the refugee hospitality centre in Scaramaga is uncontrollable." The seventeenth under number 2/1-10-2018 topical question by MP II Piraeus - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Ragos to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "An reasons for violence was exercised by EL.AS. in the demonstration of Thessaloniki that took place against the Prespecies Agreement." We are entering the debate on the only timely question that will be answered today. It is the first under number 204-12-2018, a top-stage question by MP I Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaou Friend to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject: "Direct legislative initiative to amend Law 1608/1950 on public abuses". The question will be answered by the Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Mr Kalogerou. Mr. Friends has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-10-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, on the occasion of today's topical question is the recent condemnation of our fellow citizen, the cleanser, to ten years in prison on the basis of the law on abuses of the public. I would like to see the sensitivity with which you and the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay handled this problem from the outset. Of course, the problems relating to the law itself are not eliminated, a law of an earlier age, which creates a serious social problem, given that there are still further decisions on multiannual syllables against fellow citizens who are accused of felony fraud and forgery against the public. The courts are based on the judgment under number 196/2015 of the Judicial Branch of the Ice Bay, which stated that: ‘Yes, there is no harm when the damage caused by the fraudulent conduct of the deceit is balanced by an equal contribution which has been paid to the deceived act which he has been misled to commit, but this requires that the contribution is lawful’. This is only a feasibility interpretation. For counterfeit certificates it is not accepted that the illegally recruited have a claim for the payment of wages on the basis of provisions on unjust enrichment, as is the case under established case-law in cases of an invalid employment contract for any reason. On the basis of this case-law of the Ice Bay, they are sentenced to years of imprisonment and, of course, to the law, of course, to Law No 1608/1950, our fellow citizens, and it is considered to be an unwarranted presumption of the use of false documents when they were appointed to the public. Otherwise, proof that the level of the public's damage to the perpetrator's recruitment is always equal to the total remuneration paid to him and that if he exceeds EUR 150,000 - and that always applies - the recruits are persecuted in accordance with the law to which we have referred and are finally condemned. At least 10 years' imprisonment and imprisonment in prison. Mr President, Minister, it is clear that these legal structures are severely afflicted with the legitimate feeling and end up in prison people, who are usually low-wage and low-wage, too, of an economic level. With Law 1608/1950, the legislator wanted to effectively punish the financial crimes of the so-called "white collar", with illegal benefits of high heights and with the use of particular artifacts and conduct, and abuse of special trust relations. We have made this law to apply to the detriment of ordinary poor people who have committed offences and have to be punished, but not in such a way as to be disastrous. I would therefore ask the Minister whether he is going to take immediate legislative initiative and what content, so that persecuted people are punished, but not by the imposition of extermination sentences under Law 1608/1950, to finally apply the principle of proportionality, as is the case for all laws and for all citizens, and if the government intends, in addition to the sensitivity it has shown, to enter the crucial issue of maintaining this anachronistic framework, which, as has also been applied by justice, reminds us of the ancient paradox, according to which justice looks like a spider web, where it passes because it is broken by the strong insects, but is caught in it by the weak and small insects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-10-S1-commons.u3	The Minister has the floor under the Rules of Procedure for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-10-S1-commons.u4	Mr. Philly, thank you for the question. It is an essential question, which - in my opinion - does not only arise on a case-by-case basis, that is to say, from what happened and concerned public opinion, in the last case you referred to. It is a constant and time-consuming reflection, which has been developed by the country's legal world, by the judicial associations, by the lawyers, by the academic community, about the problems that have arisen in the implementation of a law, which is really anachronistic and certainly needed rationalisation. rationalisation results from over five decades of experience, that is to say, since the law on public abuses has been implemented. As far as the case is concerned, we reserve it and certainly you understand it first, because there is a procedure that is still open. In the present case, that case is still pending before the Ice Bay, as regards the discussion of the appeal brought by the defendant. Therefore, I myself, but I think that we are all aware of this, beyond the social concerns and the social issues raised by this case, and of the legal concerns, which have to do with the application of Law No 1608/50, something else at the moment cannot be said, apart from the fact that it does not have to do with human sensitivity and with the way in which public opinion perceives such cases, it has to do, above all, that is what is important at the moment - with procedural guarantees. There are security guarantees relating to citizens, who in any case, in other cases, can trust the rule and justice, and all the procedural margins and all the guarantees provided by the law can be exhausted in order to give them the battle of those involved in criminal matters. This is a general position, in my opinion. Secondly, I think that there is a serious problem with Mr 1608/1950, not only with regard to the criminal aspect. The main concern, in relation to 1608, is that we are dealing with a law on misappropriation of the public, which, with its aggravating cases, penalises life-long imprisonment financial offences. And the constant legal reflection is whether we can still have a criminal law that provides for the penalty of financial crimes, i.e. they are punished in the same way, in the same way, financial crimes with crimes against life and crimes against the regime. This strictest way, with the strictest penalty, has given rise to many debates and intense reflections in these three offences. The second issue - and then I shall return to the second part of your question, namely what the government intends to do, namely, about resolving this issue - is that of a fundamental problem in 1608, that the framework of a pluralism, which can reach twenty years in principle, is determined by the amount of damage. And you said there, in fact, a very serious issue that has to do with the contribution to work and how it has been evaluated by decision of the Ice Arena in 2015. I would like to quote and say that this is the case-law. This does not mean that all courts are moving in the same way. Indeed - and this is a very serious problem - that, in terms of both the exercise of criminal prosecution and the punishment and final submission of a case under this rule, we have different cases. And here is the problem, that we can see, in practice, two standards in cases which at least appear by naked eye or which could be similar, because we can never have exactly the same cases in criminal cases. I would like to close parentheses and say that the problem, therefore, in the temporary detention of up to 20 years of age, is the issue of financial damage, which is if we exceed EUR 150,000. From that point on, there are special aggravating circumstances which have to do with the long-term execution of the crime, as happened in this particular case or the subject matter of great value. These two are court judgments. In other words, what means 'long-term' and if the long-term one is haunted, and what is of particular value when we leave the EUR 150,000 threshold, are the court's rating judgments, and there is the fact that there is the judge's freedom to assess this issue actually creates cases involving different measures and different weights in similar cases. I close this first position with one point, namely that it is indeed 1608 - and that is why it is extremely important that the debate that will follow in the next period - certainly not just about the 'white collar' crimes, of course, concerns all citizens and I think that the last incident has brought this problem to light.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-10-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Philly, you've got the floor for three minutes, so you can get a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-10-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, as you rightly said, it is a fact that he is threatened with life in prison with Law 1608/1950. Even with the acceptance of all lightening circumstances, the minimum penalty imposed is ten years, i.e. imprisonment in prisons. This can't be for a poor man, for a poor fellow citizen of ours, who even got a fake certificate that he's finished in municipal school and went to work cleaner or cleaner in a hospital or in a municipality. To be punished, of course, but not for ten years in prison, at the same time as not workers, even illegally, but various economic interests receive EUR 200,000 000 and EUR 300,000 000 and do not account for them in PPC, the public and the municipalities as they must and move freely among us in various ways that we have seen in the recent past. I repeat, here our ancient ancestors are, indeed, prophetic. Justice looks like the spider's web. The large insects break the tissue and they leave and the little ones catch them and they "drain them". You said you would take the initiative of a dialogue. I do not know whether it will be in the context of the reform of the Criminal Code or on a specific subject, that is, whether there is a legislative initiative. However, it is necessary to make it known to the public that this law today does not protect the public interest from fearful and terrorous public abusers. This law pursues people who committed offences, which were essentially survival offences from a point on. It is not possible today, with such privatization of public functions - which means performance in the private sector with the known tricks, and I mentioned the history of 'ENERGA' earlier - and the performance of public work in the private sector to show all the sense of dealing with abuses to people who - I repeat - are committing crimes, in fact, survival. I expect to see the initiative of the Government and - I repeat - a sensitivity and yours and the Ms. Prosecutor of the Ice Bay. With regard to the issue you mentioned in the conflicting case-law, all right, the courts in Greece have the opportunity to think, to appreciate the constitutionality of the laws, etc. - No objections - but when there is a decision of the Penal Department of the Ice Bay, this is a case-law basis which, unfortunately, is binding on the following courts and must be overturned on a legislative initiative. If we leave to justice the responsibility of such political initiatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-10-S1-commons.u7	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-10-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Philie, there is surely a case law. Many times, there are conflicting laws. There is a different case law. Also, the court’s case law changes, facing new problems or whenever a new problem can arise. The question here, however, which is raised by this question, is what the state is doing, what the legislature is doing and what the legislative initiative can be taken by a government to deal with these problems, which have been highlighted by you and me in the protagonism. Let me say that I would like to believe that, at the end of the day, justice can dismantle the web, that is to say, to destroy the web, in such a way that it creates a clean path in which citizens, the 'insects' - small and large - can walk freely. Nonetheless, on the initiative of the Government, ministerial decisions were adopted on 6 November, with which we are reconstituting the two Preparatory Committees on the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure. The time given to these two legislative preparations, initially, is two months. What we have reached, in the context of institutional cooperation between the Ministry and the two legislators, is when they first complete their work, both in terms of the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure - that is, about the month and more - to put the plans of the two codes in public consultation. This is the public debate I referred to before. It is a public consultation which will involve not only judicial associations, not only legal associations, not just universities, but also you and us and all parties, because it is a reform that is extremely important. There, we must stand with great care, seriousness and sobriety, away from any - in my opinion - working in one or the other direction, so that we can see together such a reform, which has not been attempted for many decades now. The time has come to see the Criminal Code, and therefore the issue of the law on public abuses, as well as to consult on how we can solve the problems that have arisen. Of course, the work of the legislators must also concern other matters of criminal law critically. Because we may be here next week and discuss a new case, which also has a very strong social interest. Immediately afterwards, there will be a period of about thirty days, where public consultation and consultation will be completed, of course, with the political parties, in order to complete the work of the legislature and to be able to introduce the two codes by means of the procedure for voting in Parliament. In my opinion, these work will be extremely important and very strong and will require, in such a great reform, a climate of good cooperation and, at least, a consensus. In relation to Law 1608 - to be more specific - in my opinion, the framework in which the legislation can move - and you certainly realise that I cannot say anything more, because at the moment the legislation is working, so we expect to see what it will be like - for the law on abuses of the public is as follows. It can move on three axles: One will have to do with the objective, subjective casting of offences. In other words, it will be called upon to deal with issues that have arisen in relation to the way they are subjected to both the objective and the subjective element of the crimes of economic crimes. Secondly, it will be about streamlining penalties and other offences, but also of course about economic offences. And thirdly - and very importantly - you know very well that both in public debate, particularly in relation to economic crimes and the dismantling of public money and corruption - it is also about the political world and discussions about such cases - people are wondering about the money. That is to say, they hear the penal punishment, but society often demands the restoration of the damage suffered by the Greek State by cases of serious economic crimes. In this case now, on this third axis, the framework of a criminal conciliation which will enable accused persons of financial offences to restore damage by specific procedures, specific procedural rules and the way in which they are dealt with is the third and very important axis, which will create a framework that is rationalised in terms of dealing with financial offences. Of course, this amendment to Law 1608 cannot take into account our weakest fellow citizens who are suffering and can be involved at any time in such adventures. Mr President, I am presenting the Minutes and the ministerial decision. [[At this point, Minister Michael Kalogerou presents for the minutes the above-mentioned Ministerial Decision, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-10-S1-commons.u9	Mr President, there is a timely question for me concerning the issue that is tormenting Drama. Please have my time for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-10-S1-commons.u10	You should have told me a little earlier.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-10-S1-commons.u11	That is why I was in good time, Mr President, here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-10-S1-commons.u12	Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-10-S1-commons.u13	We're talking about public accountability. On Friday, when we were here, there were 11 topical questions, but none of them answered, and today there were twenty-two, but one is answered, Mr President. The issue that has been raised for me is a sensitive, humanitarian matter. It concerns Drama and a negative, fatality for the citizens first in the sense of cancer. I'm trying to get an answer. I waited fourteen months last year. He responded from the Minister in September last year that by the end of 2017 a chemotherapy department would be set up at Drama Hospital, so that my two thousand fellow citizens would not be troubled by at least chemo treatments at the Hospital of Alexandroupolis or Thessaloniki. Of course, there's the cancer clinic in Kavala. But one of the oncologists was moved to Thessaloniki by his absence, and the other one on contract will depart as the contract is over. I was waiting today for the Minister, who made a commitment last September that by the end of 2017 this section of chemo would be created so that at least the cancer patients would find a shelter. Unfortunately, to date, even though fifteen months have elapsed, nothing has happened. I hope the Minister will be here next time or in any case, dealing with this humanitarian issue and a problem which is afflicting both cancer patients and their relatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-10-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr. Cryazides. The Conference of Presidents has repeatedly dealt with this issue. The government has repeatedly raised this issue. I think it is a matter for the government to consult the ministers so that questions can be answered, because parliamentary control is an obligation of the Minister. It is not up to his own - if you wish - to do so, but it is a duty of the Minister. Therefore, you are pressing doors open with what you are saying. In other words, action has been taken. The government remains to answer with its ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-10-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President, but at least on sensitive issues of this content we cannot have an answer, an intervention for two thousand people who are cancerous.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-10-S1-commons.u16	I agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-10-S1-commons.u17	If that's possible! In fact, as I said before, one oncologist was moved from the clinic and the other oncologist - it is a woman - the end of the contract. I call, finally, for such a matter to be dealt with which there are so many families.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-10-S1-commons.u18	The debate on the topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-10-S1-commons.u19	With the consent of the House at 18.31 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday 11 December 2018 at 11 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: legislative work, on the basis of the special agenda and the agenda distributed.
