ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-11-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the debate of topical and urgent questions, I have the honour of announcing to the House on Friday, October 12, 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 34/8-10-2018 by the New Democracy MP Mr. Yoyaka to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Publishing of the remaining Presidential Decrees establishing the Organised Development Areas for Aquaculture". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 18/3-10-2018 topical question by MP Argolida of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR. Mr Ioannis Manniatis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the subject: "The government charged PPC with the pharaoh wounds". 3. The 20/3-10-2018 topical question by MP Pireos of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on "Turkish Challenge continues in the Aegean". 4. The Question No 44/9-10-2018 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "To provide a immediate solution to the issue of the cleanliness and hygiene of schools." 5. The 23/4-10-2018 topical question by MP MEP I of the Central Association Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "About the legality of the Skouria mine." B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 35/8-10-2018 by MP Pireos of New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on "Problems in the selection procedures of educational project coordinators". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. PASOK - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject of "Government misinformation, that the guarantors of the indebted households are protected". 3. The Question No 45/9-10-2018 by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "For the disasters of the cyclone "Zorba" caused in the Peloponnese". 4. Mr. Andreas Loverdos, Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information on the subject: "First complaints about the functioning of ERT". 5. The Question No 46/9-10-2018 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "To implement immediately measures to support students who were housed in the fires that were burned and to build new outbreaks". 6. The question asked by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Constantinople to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "Extending the second phase of the expansion of the telecommunications network Megalopolis Arcadia." 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 26/5-10-2018 topical question by Independent MEP 2, Piraeus Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos, Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the "Amendment that freezes the day. for Muftes’. 8. The 3/1-10-2018 topical question by Piraeus I of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The situation in the refugee hospitality centre in Scaramaga" is uncontrolled. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that the Standing Committee on Formatic Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: "Statification of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of San Marino on cooperation in the cultural, educational and scientific fields". Parliament also called for a short-day absence abroad from Tuesday 23 October to Saturday 27 October. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-11-S1-commons.u2	The House therefore approved the requested permission.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-11-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We will start the debate with the third under number 47/9-10-2018, a top-level question from the Member of Parliament, Etolokarnania of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on "To exclude beneficiaries of compensation from the redefinition of "minor" areas". Mr Mauritius has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-11-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. The new proposal of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, which has been given to public consultation, of course, in response to the guidelines and requirements of the European Union, in accordance with Regulation 1305/2013, has created an inconvenience and justified anger in thousands of poor and medium-sized farmers and farmers throughout the country, which are excluded, Minister, after 2019 from the compensatory compensation, in accordance with the new demarcation of areas with natural constraints and specific disadvantages. The new demarcation becomes horizontal in these areas and does not take into account the survival criterion of the bio-popular farmers in the areas that are staying and leaving, while in the previous demarcation it was within these areas, that is, disadvantaged areas. We're talking about where there are small livestock units, small barren lots. For example, there are local apartments, even whole municipalities, which in their geographical boundaries of course have some irrigated areas, but there are also dry barren that function only like pastures. You don't take it into consideration and operate on the broom’s logic. The poor farmers in these regions today experience the deadlocks of the anti-popular policies of the government and of the European Union. They are crushed in monopolies’ millstones of monopolies’ competition for profit. The cost of production is high, the prices of the products are crumbling. For example, the sheep and goat milk we asked you a few days ago. There is a price delay, open prices for the sales of the products. Together with this development and the balancing will give a graceful shot for these regions and for these producers we are talking about. That is, today if you see on all websites, there are announcements on the sale of herds. If these farmers in these areas also suffer this blow, this situation will dramatically deteriorate. Of course this situation, in our view, is not lightning in hunger, but it is a targeted policy and the way in which subsidies have been granted for all these years. So what did the subsidies do? We will explain that they facilitated the concentration of land and production in a few hands for capitalist large businesses and monopolies. The JRC has been in the position for all these years that the allocation of subsidies, which is the money of the Greek people and the people of Europe, and we need to explain this, must be fully linked to production, plant and animal production, livestock. To support poor farmers, to be able to survive, to continue their productive activity, to continue to produce quality products for modern food folk needs. And support areas that so far give these farmers a fight to survive, but there are also conditions that can live with dignity and remain in these areas. For all this, Minister, we ask you what measures you intend to take to ensure that these areas are not excluded and that this, which is really crumbly, is indeed an aid to enable these poor and medium-sized farmers and farmers in these regions to continue their productive activity.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-11-S1-commons.u5	The Minister for Rural Development and Food will answer Mr Stavros Arachovitis. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-11-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, you are bringing to the Greek Parliament today a very important issue, which has evolved into a major debate in all the non-urban areas. What I have to make clear from the outset is that there will be no injustices in any region. However, on the occasion of your question, we need to clarify certain things. The first is that the debate on less-favoured areas and areas with special disadvantages was held in consultation. Why was he in consultation? It has been consulted so that we can see, on the basis of the new criteria of Regulation 1305/2013, which are those areas that meet the criteria of the regulation and which are those areas that can still and must be included in the regulation. I have already spoken with too many regional directors, with too many mayors, with a lot of self-government who have understood the consultation process and perhaps in a communication there was something you can count on us when it was put into consultation. However, all the self-government have understood that they should contribute to this dialogue documented. The second thing to be clear is that the mountain areas that absorb 2/3 of the compensatory resources do not change. The mountainous areas remain as they were. The third is that island and border regions are all part of areas with special disadvantages. So, from there it is ensured that no one will be wronged. The fourth point, however, to be careful, is that the new regulation, 1305/2013, sets new criteria. They are not the same criteria that had been laid down in the previous regulation which has already been in force since the 1980s. So, in order to be okay with subsidies, to ensure that subsidies are not jeopardised from 2019 onwards, that is, in time, by the end of the year, that we have proceeded with the demarcation of the new disadvantaged areas and the new areas with special disadvantages. That's to be clear. If we do not proceed with this demarcation in an objective, fair and, above all, in accordance with the criteria laid down in the regulation, subsidies will be at risk. And this government is not prepared to risk subsidies to support Greek farmers. What are the criteria, however, which are being set? The criteria are biophysical and not social. They are criteria that include physical limitations or bad climatic conditions, but have not been overcome by investments. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, I will conclude in a minute. Take note of this point in the regulation here for farmers, because for us, support for livestock is a priority, since in the last decade at least there has been a negative trend in the balance and thus the livelihood of farmers. We are examining the integration of grazings of all municipal flats which have pastures on the basis of a criterion allowing them to be introduced into specific areas. Here to make this clear because it sounds intense: the Ministry of Rural Development and Food has entrusted the Agricultural University with drawing up a study on the specialization of the guidelines laid down in the regulation. This study was approved by the European Commission's Joint Research Centre. So the map that came out and the criteria set out are based on an approved study of the Agricultural University. Now for areas with special disadvantages, I will analyse you in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-11-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Minister. Mr Moraite, before I give you the floor, I will make an announcement for our guests. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, twenty-nine students and students and two educational attendants from the 11th Acharnon High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I'll tell you a few things to understand what we're doing right now. You are in a parliamentary procedure, i.e. Members from different regions of the country ask about matters relating to their territory and the Minister is answering. Mr Arahovitis, Member of the Communist Party of Ioannina, is currently asking the Minister for Rural Development, Mr Arahovitis, for questions in his area, and the Minister is answering. Mr Mauritius, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-11-S1-commons.u8	Minister, what did you tell us in your place? That any changes to the redefinition of these areas are being made on the basis of certain criteria, obviously social, and that regions which are affected are obviously regions with incomes, with growth, with investments. You didn't say that today. That's what the Ministry claims. We told you in the protology that this, in our view, is half the truth. It is a pretext for this policy to pass. I mean, they're on their way along with the dry ones. We believe that these areas should be re-drafted, in our view, without any criteria, which we mean a social criterion. You do not take into account the stratification of these areas, you put them all together in the same bag. There are memorandums, which I shall be tabling in the Minutes, from a series of federations and rural clubs which document what I told you in the prototype, that there may indeed be in one area these irrigated areas, but there are in the geographical boundaries of a municipality more than 70% that are compensatory areas. This municipality can't all come out of the balancing compensation. There's soil morphology. For example, in an area products may be produced in what we call irrigated areas, while in the rest of the area they cannot produce products. Of course, the balancing compensation and its reduction are not lightning. We have already reduced since 2013 with the PASOK and New Democracy Government's action plan, with the action plan on pastures that many have stayed outside, and of course they are waiting, because you promised, Minister, that some losses from this period will be made up. You did too, your Government, in 2016, a decrease in a compensatory compensation of 30% to 40%. So, what did you do? From seventy-five thousand, you've made the beneficiary two hundred and fifty thousand and don't tell us that some poor people have taken too. Maybe that's the way it is. But what are you doing? Take from the poor and give them to others poor. Our disagreement is that all of this must be done on the basis of criteria, such as maintaining this world in production and ensuring that it remains in these areas. In 2016 you gave the balancing to those who had extra-agricultural income, as long as they took the basic support or had real estate in these areas. What you are now doing with these regions is taking into account the average income and that is at the expense of some producers. You cannot in one area divide the income and put them all together in the same position. We believe that at the moment, if there is growth, it is in those areas where capitalist enterprises are, because, for example, the various projects that exist from the Ministry of Rural Development, the programmes cannot be taken up by the poor producers, because the share of own funds from 25% goes to 50%. In other words, for a small investment of 50,000 a farmer, a poor farmer must take up at least 20,000. Who has the possibility of this world? And those who have made this effort, today they are tightened by the bank every day and are at dead ends. We believe that this policy is hostile to agriculture and must organise its struggle. Minister, I have a duty to inform you that the country is becoming an endless farmhouse. Yesterday there were fighters in Larissa fighting for the right and for the bread of their children and they were sentenced for the 2013 blog, which the Prime Minister, then as chief of the opposition officer, had visited the block and you know what he said? He said: "Your struggle is fair and continue, because as long as this policy is implemented you will be called away." Today this world was brought to court and tried. And as today became a court of law in Hayes, we will clearly say that these recipes are tested. The criminalisation of the games is not going to bend the farmers' racing minds, because they are right and they really have to fight for their right. We support these struggles, but in particular what we are asking you today, you must take into account, Minister, everything we tell you. This is the reality and too many farmers and farmers are being wronged. We are telling you that with this anti-population policy, this world will lead to a violent mass rupture. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-11-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-11-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Moraite, I think that a point has not been interpreted well. The regulation on the definition of less-favoured areas does not provide for social criteria. However, it is good for our country that certain social criteria are provided for in the category of regions with special disadvantages. So, on the basis of this provision, we include both the island regions, which proves to have special disadvantages, such as the difficult connection, transport costs, all these things about the island regions and the regions with land borders, where it is shown that we have natural disadvantages, because of their proximity to other regions, whether because of competition or anything else. Let's make it clear for the pastures. The new definition that the country has achieved for pastures in Omnibus expands the pasture, so it solves the problems of the past. So these problems are resolved and you will see it through the application of the regulation. However, the first step has been achieved, the country has succeeded. With regard to budget reduction, in 2016 to make it clear that a remnant was given from the previous framework and shared with farmers. The budget has increased, doubled - since 2017, which was the normal budget - and has reached EUR 245 million for the balancing. I would agree with you that we should not go back to a past where subsidies were given in a customer-style way and we will not return to a redeal with that logic. We should be absolutely, but absolutely transparent - and that is why it has also been put into consultation - we should be fully documented and compatible with the regulations so that the subsidies granted by Greek producers and especially small and medium-sized farmers, who need them all, are not at risk. Thank you very much for the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-11-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Minister. It will now be discussed the first under number 33/8-10-2018, a topical question by the Member of Parliament, Evros, New Democracy. Anastasios Purchasias, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on "Exemption of the farmers of Evros from De Minimis compensation". Mr. Treasury, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-11-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you welcomed the farmers in Evros the day before yesterday with the institutional factors, the mayors and the productive players in the region. You have had a full briefing about exactly what is happening mainly with a basic crop, which is cotton. It's the damage caused by the worm, but right now that's not all. We were not satisfied with your answer and position. You have not committed yourself, you have not created the optimism, the hope to these people, because winter, Mr President, for farmers is difficult and much more in my region, in my constituency, where the blows are crucial at the expense of all crops. The intense and constant rainfall of winter and the provoking of local floods from rainwater, as well as the flooding of the Evros river in March, have caused serious problems and damage to winter crops. At the same time, however, problems have also arisen during the growing season, resulting in serious problems, so that we have a double crop in this field and have problems in harvesting as well. Our problems focus on cereals, sunflower and cotton, as I have said from other causes, vegetable and tobacco. These damages, which have been caused, are irreparable, as evidenced by the yields we had during the harvest. At the moment, the state does not support these people who had these damages. We have proposed that the de minimis State aid regulation, known as De Minimis, be triggered through the conferences that have taken place, either in the local Municipality of Dumotio or in the local municipality of Orestiad. Minister, it's the only financial instrument. Your predecessor in a written question did not satisfy us with his answers and he did not solve the problem. The problem is still there. That is why this question, the written question, has been turned into a timely one. Please give the answers to our questions: Are you planning to use this financial instrument? Is that the money in the code? Because that is what your predecessor supported. Do you have another financial instrument? Mr President, imagine that a well-quality drop in cereals is sold from five hundred to seven hundred kilograms. This year, we had between seven and a hundred pounds per acre and even poor production. The blows, as I said, are too great. You have to bend to the problem, which employs a whole prefecture. I can tell Rhodope Prefecture about the problems. I would ask you, Minister, to hear your responses to these problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-11-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-11-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr Colleague, for the question. Indeed, as you rightly said, a few days ago we had a wide-ranging meeting with the MPs, not only Evros but also the whole of Thrace with the self-government and representatives of the farmers at the Ministry. What we have made clear - and I repeat it from here - is that the solution is not uniform. Solutions are solutions on a case-by-case basis. All the tools at our disposal will therefore be examined. If you want, let me say something personal. Promises before we have completed the work from me you won't hear. I prefer to be patient a few days, to look at all the tools available to us and to announce solutions rather than predictions. So be patient a few days. I understand your anxiety and all the self-government, all the Members of Parliament, but more of the producers listen to something tangible. You are patient, however, to listen to the solutions really. As far as De Minimis is concerned, it is governed by a specific regulation of the European Union, in 1408/2013, which provides for a specific framework for integrating losses and granting aid through De Minimis. The total amount available to us is EUR 109.260,000 for the three years until 2020. Of these, a sum has been allocated to peaches for the Russian embargo. A sum has been allocated to peaches and nectarines for the summer rains of 2017. It has been given to island Greece for various problems that have arisen, mainly in livestock farming and the islands, for diseases, for destruction, for grazing and for snow in 2017. I would point out, however, once again: the conditions for granting de minimis aid are quite strict, and we need to observe them literally, if we do not want to see any phenomena of the past, in which we had recovered or imputed to our farmers. Let us say that for Evros and for the wider region of Rhodope, the losses are divided into two main categories: those covered by the ELGA Regulation and those not covered. For the damage covered, the procedure, as the farmers know, has already begun, both the first assessment, which is the first phase, and the announcement of the damage to do their jobs and the start of individualisation of the damage. In fact, I also have the number of applications, which have reached two thousand forty. This, of course, shows the size of the damage that exists in the region. The ELGA has in many cases completed the work of personalised aid, so it proceeds to clean up the findings, pay the money and process, where there is an objection, of reassessment. These are the damages covered. As far as the uncovered damage is concerned...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-11-S1-commons.u15	As we speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-11-S1-commons.u16	Yeah, just like we're talking about now. For non-covered damage, ELGA will help us by providing both meteorological data and estimates of the rate of damage reduction, which will help us to capture the size of the damage and see which of the tools we can use. In my dentistry, I'm going to give you more detail about the causes...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-11-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Treasury, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-11-S1-commons.u18	Minister, as far as ELGA is concerned, the partners and its shareholders are the farmers, who often pay for the regulation does not cover them. Today I inform you with numbers, which are not my own, that they are the active fields and services of the Ministry of Rural Development in my area. We have two hundred and ninety - three thousand acres with cereals, two hundred thousand acres with sunflower, eighteen thousand acres with vegetables. Mr President, in view of the fact that the horticultural products of Evros are almost supplying large companies from which we buy frozen products from the various supermarkets. We have three units, which are really the steam engines in terms of the subject and the damage is too great. We have three and a half thousand acres of tobacco in the mountainous volume and two hundred and sixty thousand acres of cotton. You see that the sizes are very large and you will have to find the way from now and, indeed, as a newly appointed Minister, and the solution to the big problem. Yesterday we were with a cross-party committee at the headquarters of the European Union in Brussels, the European Commission and the European Parliament and we visited the Permanent Greek Delegation, the known ACE. People there are at your disposal to help. They have a lot of possibilities. One example is the Climate Change Fund. Germany, Mr President, is already calling for the activation of this fund with financial instruments that are strong enough to help farmers in the German territory. Why not? I believe that you are aware of this and, indeed, of it. I would therefore ask you to bend to our problems. The situation is marginal. We will have mobilisations, which do not honor the Hebrews, that is to say, claim that their demands are met. They meet, discuss with the mayors, with the productive bodies, with the geoponns, with your services, which you have above and at regional and prefectural level. Unfortunately, however, the solutions do not exist. You have the key in your hands and you can support these people and it's worth it. You should know that the river basin of Evros with four sidewalks and on one hand it is a blessing, but many times it punishes us. Unfortunately, almost every year, we have these flooding phenomena and the local and more general ones. We also have the weather phenomena, as we said before, we also had drought because of the annoyance. From there on, we also had the development of the worm, which brought us a definitive blow to the total destruction of our basic crop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-11-S1-commons.u19	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-11-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. This picture you are bringing us, Mr Prussakis, has taken us from both the producers and the players in the region, but also from the agencies, from the ELGA and from our own decentralised agencies. Indeed, producers from the green worm, from entomological insults, from fungiological insults, have been damaged to a very large extent, which is almost complete. What we are doing, firstly, is that, for the damage caused by climate change, Greece has submitted by the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Justice to the European Commission - along with Germany - where we explain the reasons - but not in general - for the unprecedented weather phenomena, not only high temperatures or periods of drought or flooding phenomena, but also their combination with weather data. We have also submitted a letter to the European Commission and document the effects of climate change. Secondly, we have created in cooperation with the Agricultural University of the Commission which helps us to draw up a dossier to monitor this phenomenon and to keep the European Commission informed instantly and continuously. Thirdly, we have a very good communication and we are trying to strengthen it, because the Permanent Greek Representation is a valuable tool that keeps us in direct contact and also passes on the Greek positions. We're in direct contact and we're trying to strengthen it. What I want farmers to know, however, is that our intention is to support the loss of income to the maximum extent that we can do so in every way, fully documented, but also in the regulations. That is to say, the scientific committee, which we have drawn up, with the official meteorological evidence that it receives, substantiates the creation of a dossier for the use of all tools. The instrument for climate change you said is one of them. There's more tools. All these tools have been activated and we are trying to draw the maximum resources, because unfortunately - and with this I will close - our country is one of the countries that are first affected by climate change, both in fisheries and in agriculture, and, of course, in livestock. So in the next few years we must make use of all the tools available to us and extend them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-11-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Minister. Next is the first question with number 862/23-8-2018 question of the circle of petitions and questions by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odyssea Konstantinopoulos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: ‘Application of the growers of the Mantinea and Korthion of the Municipality of Tripolis Arcadia for their compensation due to the catastrophes of severe rainfall’. Here, Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-11-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I am here today because you have not answered my question and at least two months have passed. My question was about the disasters that took place on 23 August in the regions concerned. And I am glad that even today you have come, because Mr Angelopoulos, when questioned in the House, accepts the announcements in the last few days. I'll tell you a little below. They went to Mr. Angelopoulos, discouraged them and after my question on 23 August, Mr. Kurebes, who said "to see exactly what is happening, see whether they can be compensated or not", while Mr. Angelopoulos said that there is no compensation available and asked for final estimates to be made after the harvest. Of course, I should like to tell you that Zorbas, who has made great catastrophes, has also come, but today Mr Kurebett's commitment is that if more than 30% of the damage to actual production is done, farmers will join the PSEs and will start to receive compensation. Now listen to the evidence we have gathered - I hope you too - Minister, from fifty Mantinia winegrowers: The forty-five have suffered almost total destruction, 75% to 100%. Estimates on vineyard crops have not even begun. The ELGA valuers have only gone to some potatoes. In addition, I will tell you something that I think you are interested in and which is totally strange. You will allow me to tell you and to present the effort made by the regional director, which you have - and you know him very well, I do not want to say any more - not to make announcements. I will present to you the 5-10-2018 transcripted text from the local television of Mr. Deligiannis, Mr. Athanasopoulos, Mr. Koskolos, Mr. Pafili. They wonder why the director doesn't accept the announcements. Fortunately I learned this morning that yesterday, by magic, he accepted in three or four areas. We have to ask you a question every day, but there is a key issue here, Minister. We have disasters at 75% to 100%. Mr. Kurebes has visited the regions. I would ask you to say, not to me, but to the farmers - because we are being watched by dozens of farmers - what you will do in relation to this disaster.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-11-S1-commons.u23	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-11-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, with regard to the heavy rainfall this year, this summer, in particular with regard to the regional unit of Arcadia, we must take into account and make it clear that it is not a matter of a regional director's decision. There is a specific procedure in line with the regulation in force since 1988 on how the announcement is made until the end. I don't think any regional directors have any objections to making announcements when there are actual damages and in line with the regulation. You know I'm from the area, too. Farmers have a good picture of the regional store in Tripoli. The steps are therefore as follows: First, after the damage occurred, geotechnics have been visiting the region from the first moment and making the necessary points. They're setting up the area for where there's damage. Step two is an announcement of damage. Afterwards farmers make their statement and follow the personalisation of the damage by the geotechnics, ELGA staff, permanent and extraordinary. I should like to inform you here that the branch of ELGA, Peloponnese, has already been staffed with seasonal geotechnics colleagues, so it is fully ready to go ahead and see all the damage that has unfortunately been many, precisely because of the recent cyclone we had in the region. It follows that the findings are cleansed and communicated and that compensation is paid at the same time. Here, where there is objection or disagreement between producer and conclusion, there is also the possibility of reassessing. That is what our producers know, and it can be done. But here, let us see this: we have an ELGA insurance regulation, which has been the main torso since 1988 with the 2011 amendment when it became a central government body. You remember those things. This procedure, which is clearly described in the regulation, is an obligation for the officials, but also for the Agency - because it is accountable - to follow it faithfully. It is not that someone does not want to pay compensation, but these must comply with the rules. I want that to be understood. As I said in the previous question, there are other tools that can be exploited, namely that it is not covered by the regulation, but it can be established that it is necessary and that it is covered through other financial instruments, compensation instruments or aid instruments. All this will be used. This year was one of the most difficult years. For the regulation, however, I would like to say two more things in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-11-S1-commons.u25	Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-11-S1-commons.u26	I watched you, but I don't understand what you said. You did the process analysis. Farmers in Arcadia know her, I'm sure. Let's assume you told her to me, and you did well. I do not understand what you have answered my question and certainly the farmers did not understand. I want to ask you this. With regard to this question I have asked you since August, you did not answer it, did we turn it into a timely one, finally in the vineyards? All right, you covered up for the principal. You did well. It's your right. The farmers will hear you on that too. I ask you, what did you do for them? Will they be compensated? They've got 75% -100% disaster. It's a total disaster. I ask you what you're going to do. You're telling them the procedure. They know the process. Have you sent? It's been two months. Where is this procedure? Do you expect to talk about there being no reason to have a replica? And you ruined us for three minutes to tell us what the process of announcement and one another is? Well, and if I didn't know that, Mr. Minister, such a matter, farmers know that. I would like to bring you here, and I would ask you to submit a document to see what farmers themselves say. You're in government to change what's wrong. I'm telling you that Mr. Qurebes went and toured there and said: "We have a specific topic, which is not covered by ELGA. We will monitor the disease, to see if it can be subject to a programme by the Ministry of Rural Development." And he says, 'Let the harvest take place first and after assessing the actual loss of each farmer, if the reduction is more than 30%, farmers will be compensated'. What's happened? We are telling you that we have seen - because you have proven yourself no evidence - that fifty Mantinia winegrowers have 75-100% disasters. Let's show them. Come, Minister, to Arcadia and see them. And I ask you: have your services come to appreciate? What are they gonna do? Are they going to be compensated or not? That is the basic question we expect you to answer. If you don't answer, don't think they're listening to you one by one. All the farmers concerned are watching in Arcadia today. And for the announcements you know that they know much better than you, what he does and what Mr Angelopoulos doesn't do and whether he accepted the announcements yesterday or not. They know them. Because I don't say it myself. They said it on public TV. Mr Koskolos said, "We are therefore producers - according to the ELGA and its supervisor - of another god". I'm not talking about it. The farmers themselves say that you yourself, the ones with whom you have been hugging many times. Please, Minister, answer specifically for this area and for everything I have told you - because you understand that the margins of my question are specific - if you have done something, if there are developments, whether or not they will be compensated, for people know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-11-S1-commons.u27	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-11-S1-commons.u28	Mr Constantinople, obviously you too understood very well and our farmers understood very well. So let us leave this debate and go to the point. The substance, as I said again, is that the process predicts that geotechnics come out of the first moment of damage and make the necessary points. Did this happen in Arcadia, yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-11-S1-commons.u29	I'll tell you what?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-11-S1-commons.u30	You got it. From the start, therefore, the farmers know very well that the staircases of ELGA were there and they made the labels. And not only was it not the first time, but it has also been in the process for all the loss-making causes covered by the insurance regulation, which no one has changed since 1988. This regulation is in a process of change now. Now the regulation is changing with that government. Because this government has learned to listen to the problems. We are therefore making a more modern regulation, which is now in the process. So that we know what will get in, what will come out, how much will the premium be adjusted upwards or downwards in everything it takes to serve modern needs. It is a process we have had since 1988. We also have new crops and new cultivation techniques, which have never been taken into account. We have climate change. We live them and we see them all. We need flexibility and, above all, social justice. Understand something. No one in this government is going to outlaw, because by recognizing the needs of producers, we will use all the tools in the legal framework. Charging and recovering from this government will not exist. Farmers must be compensated, because they must survive and must remain in their profession. However, this will be done in a perfectly legitimate way. That's the process. You are well aware, therefore, that there have been reports of damage to the Arcadia region, statements have been made and the process is under way. That is what our farmers, who are watching us, know. And not only there but in all regions. In Evros they have already been completed for many damages. However, depending on the time period, the procedure is in progress. The Agency is now sufficiently staffed with seasonal staff wherever necessary and as much as necessary, so that we do not have delays. But to make it clear - and I am ending with this - that what we are interested in is the public and mutual nature of the organization with a sense of social justice, but at the same time a body that will be next to the farmer when he is needed. That is our objective and we will also achieve it by changing and modernising the regulation that has already begun since 1988. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-11-S1-commons.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, the third, with number 1/1-10-2018, a topical question by MP I of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Anthony Gregos to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "About the Macedonian Museum and other institutions, associations and unions of Macedonia and Article 6 of the Greek-Skopje Agreement", will not be discussed. The first under number 32/8-10-2018, the first question of the first cycle of the Parliamentary of Attica, Mr Georgios Vlachos, to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: ‘Timetable for the restoration of infrastructure in the areas affected by the destructive fire of 23 July 2018’, will not be discussed after consultation of the Minister responsible and the MP. The second question under number 29/8-10-2018, the first question by MP I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "Skopje port becomes Thessaloniki on the basis of the Prespecies Agreement", will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Minister responsible, George Karougalos, who will be outside Greece. Finally, the second question under number 30/8-10-10-2018, on the second question of the Athens Parliamentary of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zarulias to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "The pogrom against the Greeks in Chimara" will not be discussed because of the impediment of the Minister responsible, George Katrougalos, who will be outside Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-11-S1-commons.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: "Following the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of San Marino on cooperation in the cultural, educational and scientific fields". The draft was adopted by a majority in the Standing Committee. It is introduced to the House under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure. They may, in other words, take the floor for those who object to the ratification of this agreement. Would a colleague want to take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-11-S1-commons.u33	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-11-S1-commons.u34	Mr Christos Pappas from the People's Association - Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-11-S1-commons.u35	On the recent journey of the government partner, Anellitis Kammenos, in the United States and at his meeting with the Minister of National Defence, the nickname, i.e., the United States "solid dog", said too much and the government representative "First Left" literally gave it all to the Americans and said that there should be a greater military presence of the United States in Greece. It did offer excellence to regions and new bases so that Greece could become a vast American base and torpedoed the Greek-Romanian relations at the same time. All of this, of course, has caused the enthusiasm of the American, who, in fact, has also shown a great interest in tackling the refugee crisis and has also expressed its delight in the policy of open borders implemented by the Tsipras Government. So all this happens when according to reports and information, even information and statements from local rulers in our region, Evros, half a million Iraqis and Afghans are ready to enter Greece from the border of the river Evros. And by the way, we must say and learn from the Greek people that from the agreement on the relaunching of irregular immigrants, as you say, between the European Union and Turkey, the land borders of Evros are excluded, and only for the Aegean islands. So when all this is done, when the aim of the government and the "koria" of the banks lies the first residence of the Greeks from 1-1 to 2019, we are talking about the Cyprus of cultural, educational and scientific cooperation with San Marino, with the Galento Republic of San Marino. We are talking about an enclosed state in Italy, on the northeastern side of the Apennina Mountains, one of the smallest states in the world, with a population of about thirty-three thousand, according to data from 2018. We are therefore talking about cooperation with a state of thirty-three thousand inhabitants. So, what more meaningless could be done at this time in the Greek Parliament? So we are talking about this meaningless subject, and perhaps I say we are opening the way for some business, some 'better' jobs. With the revelations we may have in the future, we will be entitled. We in this ratification, which has been 'run' since 2010, say'residents', as we are present, and do not participate and we do not agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-11-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after being informed of the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, twenty-nine students and students and three teachers attending the 3rd Koropi High School (second section). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Papachristopoulos, the Independent Greeks were absent in committee. I do not know, therefore, whether you are voting in favour of ratification. It's logical, under the Rules of Procedure, you don't speak. I just ask you because you were absent and I have to ask you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-11-S1-commons.u37	We are voting in favour, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-11-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr. Papachristopoulos. Mr. Tsiaras hasn't come. Mr. Javarra, is Mr. Tsiara coming?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-11-S1-commons.u39	In a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-11-S1-commons.u40	Good. I'll read some announcements, waiting. The Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government - Minister of Economy and Development, the Minister of Interior, Economic, Environment and Energy, the Deputy Ministers of Economy and Finance, and the Deputy Minister of Finance submitted a draft law on 9-10-2018: "Structuring of the Concession Agreement between the Greek Government and the company GIAOSE SA. ANTI-DUMPING CONTRIBUTION MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT, by the company ‘COMMERCIAL CONTROL CENTRE’, by the company ‘INDUSTRY INDUSTRY’ and by the company ‘GOLLOWER CARGO INTERNATIONAL CONTRIBUTION AND LOGISTICS ANONYME’, for the ‘COMMERCIAL CONTRIBUTION CENTRE’ and other provisions’. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, I also have the honour to announce to you: (a) Protocol No 12631/7922 from 9 October 2018 to the decision of the President of the Parliament, ‘Recommendation and establishment of the Committee on the State's accounts and general balance sheet and control of the implementation of the State's budget’; (b) Protocol No 12632/7923 from 9 October 2018 to the decision of the President of the Parliament, ‘Recommendation and establishment of the Special Standing Committee on Equipment and Conventions’, (c) Protocol No 12633/7924 from 9 October 2018 to the decision of the President of the Parliament, ‘Recommendation and establishment of the Special Standing Committee for the Monitoring of the Social Security System’. The relevant decisions have been posted to Parliament Transparency and will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-11-S1-commons.u41	The Member, Mrs Catherine Marcu, shall request permission from a short-day absence abroad for the period from 18 October to 22 October 2018. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-11-S1-commons.u42	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Mr. Chiara, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-11-S1-commons.u43	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-11-S1-commons.u44	Mr Javarra and Mr Chiara, you have declared a reservation to the committee, so clarify the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-11-S1-commons.u45	The reservation was made for technical reasons because, in fact, the Government has been used to us when the conventions of this kind are being discussed in plenary, they are always accompanied by two - three amendments, which we have to develop and take the floor by a procedure which does not fit into it...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-11-S1-commons.u46	You have reserved, in other words, to see what is going to happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-11-S1-commons.u47	That is why we are telling you today that this agreement on cultural and educational cooperation between Greece and the Republic of San Marino does not need Parliament to consum, beyond what it needs, to be ratified.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-11-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr. Javarra. Madam Minister, would you like to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-11-S1-commons.u49	First of all, I would like to say that I am pleased that almost all of Parliament's wings agree to ratify this agreement, which, as has already been said, concerns education, science, research, youth, culture and sport. Of course there has been a delay since 2010, but the desire exists and we can therefore move on to this cooperation. Now, the issue that has been raised, as to whether it is important to make an agreement with such a small state, has also been answered to the committee that it may be a small state, but has a long-standing cultural presence during the years, is one of the oldest democracies in the world and the entire state is on the list of UNESCO Heritage Monuments. In fact, I had testified there and how pioneered this state is, in particular, in the part of the social state, with zero illiteracy, with unemployment at very low levels and with a university. Where. Although it is new, it is highly active and active at international level. with partnerships with universities around the world, while invaluable is the legacy of the state library, museums and paintings. Furthermore, it is a state which, despite being independent, participates in international organisations such as UNESCO and the Council of Europe, and although it is not yet a member of the European Union, has signed with the European Union "A Co-operation and Customs Association Pact" and as a member of the Council of Europe, as well as other international organisations and the UN, consistently and over time, it supports Greek positions on all issues, including national issues. Cooperation has already begun in the context of the 'Bienale of the Young Creators of Europe and the Mediterranean' and the General Secretariat of the New Generation and Lifelong Learning of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs is working together in this direction. From May 2018, student grants for many interesting fields, art writers, for artistic researchers, between eighteen and thirty-four years old, who exist and can participate in this important transnational long-term training program “A natural Oasis” of 2018. It is therefore a multi-purpose agreement for both San Marino and us. In general, education agreements can contribute to too many directions. There was a criticism in committee of the appointment of the members of the committee. There it has been answered - I say this again now - that this is the protocol, which records the cultural agreements, and then the administration, as members of this Joint Committee on the implementation of the Treaty, may, in the implementing programmes, normally of three years' duration, put diplomatic staff from our authorities abroad, in particular in order to limit expenditure. Now, with regard to the expenditure provided for in the agreement, a part of it is, of course, in our country. There are indicatively listed in the report by the General Accounting Office of the State and, of course, will be fully defined, as they depend on the scope of the cooperation and the majority of them will be covered by the technical assistance of the Secretariat-General for Research and Technology, while the costs of actions in cultural cooperation, the budget appropriations for the Ministry of Culture and Sport. Finally, we consider it to be an agreement, which can help to adopt best practices in the field of research, science, culture, support for young people - I have already said about existing grants available - to highlight the cultural features of the two peoples and the intercultural approach. Of course, they also strengthen our bilateral relations in international fora. [[At this point, the end of the speech bell of the Secretary-General hits the warning bell.]] I'm gonna need another minute, Mr. President, please. Also, in the research section, the fact that a third cooperating country may participate gives us the opportunity under Article 9 to find other resources from international organisations, for example our participation in the 'ERASMUS PLUS', in which San Marino is an eligible country. Of course, I am tabling here that all these procedures will be transparent, from open invitations, ensuring the effective possibility of participation. This type of agreement aspires to be bridges of culture and, of course, to stimulate mobility and interaction between all young people who are the spiritual capital of every place. I would like to say two more words about the intervention of the Golden Dawn. The Greek Government remains firmly committed to the Prespecies Agreement and we expect the neighbouring country to fulfil its obligations, proceed to the changes to its Constitution, and only if this is completed will the proceedings begin in the Greek Parliament. We are also working together, we think it is a viable agreement, which can promote democracy, peace and cooperation in the Balkans, and certainly there is no discussion about new bases in our country, because Greece does not want to play the role of the United States' advanced prison, it is a strength of stability for the region and its objective is to continuously improve its relations with all the neighbouring countries and the government is working in this direction.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-11-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle of uniformity and on the articles of the draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: "Following the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of San Marino on cooperation in the cultural, cultural and scientific fields". We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-11-S1-commons.u51	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-11-S1-commons.u52	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-11-S1-commons.u53	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: ‘Definition of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of San Marino on cooperation in the cultural, cultural and scientific fields’ was accepted by a majority, in a single discussion, in principle, of articles and all of them and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-11-S1-commons.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-11-S1-commons.u55	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-11-S1-commons.u56	With the consent of the House at 10.44 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, 12 October 2018 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
