ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 1-11-2018, the minutes of its meetings of Thursday, 1 November 2018, with regard to the vote in the entire draft law: "Statification of the concession contract between the Greek State and the company GAIAOSE S.A. ANTI-DUMPING CONTRIBUTION MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT, by the company "TRADE INDUSTRIAL REGIONS CONTRIBUTION" and by the company "GOLLOWER CARGO INTERNATIONAL CONTROL AND LOGISTICS ANIMAL CONTRIBUTION", for the "TRADE DEVELOPMENT OF CONTROL CENTRE" and other provisions."]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS First, let me tell the House on Monday, 5 November 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 109/29-10-2018 by MP Kilkis of the New Democracy Mr Georgios Georgios Georgiodas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: “Proclamation against the Governor of Kilkis Hospital for the rape of a worker”. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Attica of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday (Evia) Christophilopoulou to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "With tied hands to the Greek Police, while the illegality of the Greek universities rises." 3. The question by number 99/24-10-2018 of the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "The need to increase military service". 4. The 115/30-10-2018 topical question by F' Vice President of Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Georgios Lambroulis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "For redundant workers of the Associations of Agricultural Cooperatives (ESA) Larissa, Elassonas, Farsalon". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 110/29-10-2018 topical question by MP Larissa of the New Democracy, Maximou Charakopoulos, to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: 'New outbreaks of marginal violence'. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No. 101/25-10-2018 of the President of Athens of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdus to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject: “Conspiracy of Children”. 3. The 111/29-10-2018 topical question of Attica of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Kashiri to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Available management of secret funds". 4. The Question No 80/19-10-2018 by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Finance on the subject: ‘Procedure for the licensing and retroactive taxation of online betting companies’. 5. The Question No 77/17-10-2018 by the Independent MEP Mr. Dimitrios Koukoutsis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Recapitalisation and reordering of the Greek banking sector". 6. The Question No 68-16-10-2018 by MP Fthiotidas of New Democracy Mr Christos Stakouras to the Minister of Finance on "Financing actions from criminal actions against the Greek public and making available for social purposes". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question No 55/11-10-2018 by Congressman Pireos of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "The situation in the refugee hospitality centre in Scaramaga" is uncontrolled. 8. The 2/1-10-2018 topical question by MP II of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Bagou to the Minister of Citizen Protection, on the subject: "Antiquity has been exercised by EL.AS. in the demonstration of Thessaloniki that took place against the Prespecies Agreement." 9. The Question No 36/8-10-2018 by Congressman Fthiotidas of New Democracy Mr Christos Stakouras to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "An overview of general government expenditure". 10. The 19/3-10-2018 topical question by MP Elias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Finance, on "The remainder of the Molyviati Fund". 11. The Question No 17/2-10-2018 by Congressman I Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Evaluation of the account of the contribution of Law 128/75 for the help of the East Attica". Ladies and gentlemen, at this point I shall read out the topical and urgent questions of today's issue, which will not be discussed. The fifth, under number 74/16-10-2018, topical question by MP I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Nikolaou Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: "The planning for maritime education" will not be discussed. The eighth Question No 53/11-10-2018 by Mr Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on "Aid to the Port House in view of the establishment of EEZ and the extraction of hydrocarbons and natural gas", will not be discussed. The ninth, under number 20/3-10-2018, topical question by MP I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: "Turkish challenging in the Aegean" will also not be discussed. The sixth question by number 81/22-10-2018, on the second question by the Member of Parliament, of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.MAR.Michael Jelloni to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "The situation of the Greek Sugar Industry (EBZ) will not be discussed due to a blockade by the Member. The second question, under number 102/26-10-2018, is the first question of the MP Argolis of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Maniotis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "To adjust fifty instalments from PPC to TWG Ion - Dredge-Asine and the other TWGs", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister for the Environment and Energy Mr.Georgeos Stastakis. Cause: workload. The third, with number 114/30-10-2018, top-circuit question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Direct action to protect workers at the factory of LARCO" in Larymna Fthiotis, on the avoidance of accidents at work, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr. Georgios Statakis. Cause: workload. The second question under number 1326/6-9-2018 of the circle of petitions and questions by MP II of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Incredible analgesia of PPC against its consumers, accompanied by the unbelievable suffering of PPC's shops", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister for the Environment and Energy Mr. Georgios Stathakis. Cause: workload. The first under number 107/29-10-2018, a top-stage question by MP Larissa, New Democracy, Christou Kelles, Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The huge gaps in special treatment - parallel support", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Education, Research and Religion Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou. Cause: workload. The third, with number 113/30-10-2018, a topical question for the second parliamentary party of the Communist Party of Greece. Diamonds Manolakos to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Great shortages of teaching staff in the Secondary Education of Piraeus", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou. Cause: workload. The fourth question under number 90/23-10-2018, the second question of the Halkidiki MP of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Catherine Iglezi to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Difficulties in teaching staff in Secondary Education in the Halkidiki Prefecture", will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou. Cause: workload. Also, the first question under number 798/20-8-2018 question of the cycle of petitions and questions by MP Laconia of New Democracy Mr. Athanasios Davakis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religion, on the subject: "Survey and upgrading of the Peloponnese University Nursing School in Sparta", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou. Cause: workload. Finally, the fourth question under number 1048/30-8-2018 from the circle of petitions and questions by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKGROV to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "To resolve the problem that has arisen for the graduate students of the Department of Political Structures of the TEI School of Applications. Crete' will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou. Cause: workload. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now moving on to the topical and urgent debate. Four topical questions will be discussed, the first two of which will be answered by the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Socrates Famelos. We begin with our first question under number 108-29-10-2018 of the first cycle of the Member of Parliament I Piraeus, Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: “Electronic Environmental Register... with a paper envelope.” Here, Mr. Katsafandou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, for three and a half years not only we in Parliament, but the whole of Greek society has understood how the government is dealing with. And, of course, that way is nothing but relying on permanent lies or half-truths. I fear that this is precisely the case with the issue of the current question, which I have tabled on the Electronic Environmental Register, together with, of course, the lack of management and the lack of governance, which characterises you. I hope that through this question you will not prove to be closing your eyes to others, which I will explain immediately afterwards. So on 4 July, Minister, you have announced a very large environmental reform, which has to do with the Electronic Environmental Register. And it is. But you told us half the truth, because you are obviously forgetting that this had started from the time of our own government, when we sadly passed these regulations and these provisions, but we were unable to complete them, as you voted against, because we were led to elections. But you are not telling us - because this truth is not only half, but it is also mutilated - because you are obliging and opening up the coup d'état of file submission in an allegedly electronic process. I should like to explain here, Mr President. We have said that it would be electronic: plans, studies, supporting documents, approvals of services. But with a circular a few days ago, the Ministry suddenly puts in a parallel paper process. ‘Maybe’ says the Ministry, ‘the person concerned may submit the physical file to the competent authority’. I'm sorry, Mr. Minister, does that not cancel the electronic procedure? What was the point of the electronic process? I think it was important to stop the constant contact between the interested, the scholars and the service actors. So I don't understand why you opened this window. Of course I am sure we will hear excuses and accusations on your part about the previous government. You have already told reporters on this subject. But here in Parliament, Minister, we must speak truths and truths whole and not half. Allow me, Mr President, to make another point by closing my first place. Honestly, I would like to know why the government has put the mandatory digital signature on a printed file. That really is, if it's not funny, it's tragic, Minister. I would like you to explain why the electronic signature can be entered in a printed file. It's the first time we've seen this, the first time we've seen it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u4	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. You will allow me, because you have also given a strong 'political' - in introductory terms - to answer your question, Mr Katsafados, at the same level. Because you probably have fallen victim to disinformation from news reports, because you have dealt with journalists - so you told me at least that I spoke to journalists - to inform you and to present you with another great environmental innovation. However, I also need to inform you of a number of issues which belonged to the institutional framework and to the previous governments. The Electronic Environmental Register is a great innovation that previous governments have not implemented. I have to tell you that the ministerial decision to describe the process by law of 2011 has made three years to do. To understand how quickly previous governments worked! We have succeeded and implemented it. You referred to a circular, which indeed exists. What does that circular say? This circular - I have it in front of me - on 10 October it states to the competent authorities that the only procedure leading to environmental licensing is the electronic submission of studies through the Electronic Environmental Register. What he says, Mr President, the circular is that the only procedure is for the electronic environmental register. So it is absolutely absolutely necessary, I would say, not documented - not to say anything else - to say that there is another bypass procedure, which has been implemented with this circular. This circular was carried out - obviously on the basis of the legislation - by senior officials of the Ministry. She's not signed by me, but I don't think she's wrong. It actually tells citizens, scholars and businesses how they can implement this innovation in the Electronic Environmental Register, which we actually piloted this summer. The licensing process is thus transformed into a fully electronic platform and it is once again clarified that environmental authorisations can only be issued by the electronic platform. This means, in practical terms, that the submission and processing of all environmental authorisations, the monitoring of the procedure, the opinions of the services, but also the returns of the businesses will now appear in the Electronic Environmental Register. I, too, wonder whether this question and the one before your question doubts the Electronic Environmental Register and the process of knowledge of the public and business of reality about excessive licensing. So now the designer, environmental services, operators and society can be informed not only of licensing but also of the environmental performance process, with all the information about the operation of businesses, which the previous governments have not dared, not because entrepreneurship is bad, but because they wanted to settle some of their entrepreneurs, to whom they also provided air loans. So the Electronic Environmental Register is now being implemented together with a National Producer Register, together with a transparent licensing procedure. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] And literally, you're asking me why you asked yourself, or I wouldn't be in the dilemma if some people were worried. So, what is the Electronic Environmental Register doing? It does not impose a parallel manuscript and a printed system. Mr President, it should be noted that only in accordance with the electronic environmental register procedure - this is cleared by the circular - only by electronic submission, can be issued. However, it says what is happening with the studies submitted by 10 October - it defines transitionality - and what is happening with the studies submitted after 10 October. It is a process - I say it because you ask that - which will last for at least two months. What for? Because not all the scholars have yet acquired the right to digital signature and, of course, the regional councils, to which they are sent for opinion, cannot yet manage digitalised files. It is only for this reason that the circular is made and explained. Therefore, we should not give a greater size to something very simple, transitional to facilitate the opinions of the regional councils and the signatures of the scholars, which is done on the sole basis of the electronic licensing of enterprises. I'll be back in my second place.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u6	Mr. Katasfados, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in 2014 the previous government was ready to proceed with the electronic protocol, but unfortunately some people were not voting for it at that time. So you come three and a half years later, with a very long delay, with three and a half years' delay - and this is not the first time, on many issues which have nothing to do with memorial provisions, with which you would rip all the memoranda, but you are finally bringing more, you are coming - and you are making the reforms that you yourself have voted against. The Electronic Environmental Register we are debating today is one of these reforms that you voted against in 2014. I will accept, what you are saying at the moment, that we will give an extension of two more months. Isn't that what you said?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u8	I only said with the Electronic Environmental Register.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u9	Excuse me, are you questioning that some plans are being filed as hard copy right now? You're not questioning it. You said, however, that there is a transitional period, that the councils are not yet ready, they are not familiar and the system is not complete. I would therefore like a clear commitment from you on when someone who wants to go through an environmental study, that will only do so through an electronic procedure and there will be no physical dossier, there will be no other procedure that will be non-electronic. I want to ask another question, Minister. I think you assigned a company from Thessaloniki to build the system.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u10	I don't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u11	I think it's a company in Thessaloniki. Unfortunately, it seems that it cannot complete it. It's not fully working, at least at the moment we're talking about. Truly, I wonder why you chose this way, namely, to do such a public work, which will be costly for the whole of Greek society? Obviously, the only reason there is is for a private company to take over, while at the same time the same Ministry and Mr Stathakis has chosen a better way to implement these systems. You obviously know - because you were there too - another reform initiated by our government, which you completed after three and a half years, and this is the cooperation of the Ministry with the Technical Chamber for the electronic issue of building permits, which is provided as a reward only for those who use it. So why should all citizens bear it and not just those who want to do environmental studies? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like to ask you something else, Minister, which is important. Could you assure the National Representation that all the system data that this private company has designed and operated are safe, interoperable and communicate with all the public administration systems except Taxisnet, which is widely used for registration? To close - let me just a minute, Mr President - to tell you that this reform, which we started in 2014, and you voted against it, a reform with which we fully agree, should be completely electronic, to clarify the problem with this circular, to give a concrete and clear timetable that everything will be done electronically and to understand that, if we are all in favour of the reforms, we must also have the courage and the will to be able to serve them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the courtroom "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building, thirty students and students and two teachers from the 4th High School of the nice Trikala. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u13	I'm going to speak very briefly, because anyway most of the things I said in my initial position. The period since the start of implementation - since the summer - of the Electronic Environmental Register has been used, Mr Katsafados, so that we can ensure absolute confidentiality, the linking of stakeholders through Taxisnet, the identification of persons who can enter the system and the digital signature, but also to be able to resolve the interoperability of the bases, as you described, so that it can be linked to the other services. Very briefly, I would like to tell you that there is already an approved task - because you have asked for this - by the Ministry of Digital Policy for the Extension of the Electronic Environmental Register, for example in the field of environmental inspection and there is already a prepared technical bulletin to make this inclusion and start implementation in the next year. Also, within the Green Fund there is funding for maintaining the Electronic Environmental Register, about 200,000 euros for four years, so there will be more software adaptations, further expansion and a dedicated service centre. But you are not allowed to confuse the cooperation we have with the Technical Chamber on electronic town permits or the arbitrary declarations with a structure that is completely within the Ministry, and with which all the confidentiality of the data is ensured. The fact that it obviously cooperates with scientists, businessmen or private companies to draw up studies or part of software is something that happens throughout the developed world - I wonder how you do not know it - their database is not their property, they do not manage it. It's the Ministry, it belongs to our addresses, and we manage it. And in order not to submit to the National Representation any data that does not correspond to reality, I would like to say very simply that the submission of a document on the procedure and consultation in the regional councils is included in the Ministerial Decision 1649/45/2014 with signatures by Mr Michalakis and Mr Manatis in 2014. I'm telling you, so you don't blame our government for something that previous governments have chosen. We'll make it fully digital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u14	We continue with the third with number 115/18-7-2018 question of the circle of petitions and questions from the Greek Communist Party, Mr. Liana Kanellis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Serious problems cause the inhabitants of Saints Theodores, the Municipality of Andradis - Cyclones the operation of a processing unit for the processing of by-products of meat". Here, Mrs. Canelle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u15	I would like to say - will the Minister and all of you - that every time this matter comes as a question - we have tabled and not answered it, it was written, it was not answered and I have informed you - I sincerely feel bad and physically. Because I've visited the area, I need to take a stomach pill to get here, so I won't stir myself up. There's not half a man in here, but also from the outside who hears us stand up to his home, even 15 meters away, a body killed by a cat or a dog that's been emerging fat for more than half an hour. He'll call, he'll do whatever he can. He can't stand the smell of haematine. I shall now refer to an area where there is a Rendering unit, i.e. processing by-products of meat, without filters - a two-month period after intervention by the Ministry - with infinite complaints, with an emerging smell of haematine within a radius of eight to ten kilometres, with residents who do not just live, but who sleep, wake up, wash, eat with the smell of thomaine. There have been complaints. The rest of this treatment fall into a stream that passes through a irrigation area with the water of which vegetables are cultivated. If I testify to you - and I will testify today - even the last measurements, your hair will rise. In this area, for example, the permitted limit on stream water is the two hundred coliforms and five thousand have been counted, not to mention the rest. I'll testify to my question. Hat on it, from the fumes we have death on August 22th, a worker there, thirty-two years old, father of two children, who was found in the tank by the fumes. That's what happens to the bourgeois. Imagine the fat! In Rwanda, where I had the misfortune of my life to smell fat, we couldn't get closer to two kilometers. You understand what it is to happen in a unit that is exposed to the sun and with hot offal and pieces, animal remains, which are not only of the region, are remains from all over Greece. It's Italian investment, it's all you want. The owner doesn't even live there. He lives in a distance. I'm telling you, I saw him. Residents are obliged to live. Once they put two filters against their profits, for two months it didn't smell. There can be nothing. There are European Union regulations, measurements, decisions by the relevant ministries that this is unbearable. There's nothing going on. A man died, we've got 2 November and there's no finding of his death. He hasn't come out. There wasn't a coroner and he sat the body a week until it went down to the fridge. He died inside the body, and the tox screen and the finding have not come out. What am I supposed to do with my mind? I can't handle it. He's not the Environment Minister responsible for the fact that a finding has not been issued, but if a death in a thorn had happened under these circumstances, you would have shut down the store. What's his name? I don't know how to handle it. I'm telling you, honestly. I don't know. It goes beyond the limits of my endurance and indignation. I know it's a very big unit, it makes too much money in an area where people live, breathe, eat. It's inside the college lagoon this thing. I went to the meeting, I saw the world. There is no objection, it is not a matter of political exploitation. It is 'do something'. It's the first death and death of stench. When international measurements say that man's resistance to dysosmia - they have special units of measurement - it's a hundred, in the area I'm telling you, it's a thousand. I have nothing more to say. I want you to tell me what you're gonna do. I'm telling you, I want you to tell me what you're going to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u16	Minister, here you go, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u17	Mrs Kanelles, we have discussed this again and we have chosen to discuss it again and you, of course, with your question. I don't underestimate it, it's your initiative right. I have to tell you that I went to the area, I have met the residents there - I was this year, February 2018 - I was informed by the same directly and by the legal partners on the issues. I also have to tell you for formal reasons everything that has been done, although the issues of the death of a worker and the result of the autopsy control that has to be done are not about the Ministry I am serving but also not about your question. Please, I know that the investigation is still under way and has not been completed. I do not know the reasons, but I know that it has been done during working hours, that it has been done in the workplace of this factory, but I do not know any of the results of the findings. You didn't ask me, but I don't have them at my disposal. One phone I made confirmed that there is still no result in the worker's death. However, it was working in those areas you said and, even younger than thirty-two years of age, if I am not mistaken. However, with regard to what we have done, there are serious issues and problems with four different changes in the company's environmental conditions. The company has four modifications. The last one was in April 2017, almost the days we discussed the first question, if I'm not mistaken. We have found that there is a serious breach of the rules of the legislation on these four environmental licensing amendments, and that is why, following the question that we both asked together, there is now an official document of mine to the competent authorities in June 2017 that presents the amendments, as well as their relationships with Article 6 of Law 4014. We have asked ourselves whether the provisions of the law have been applied. There is a question, that is, here. Decentralised, I must say, has not answered, which is a serious matter for me, and I say it to the Delegation in public, and it owes me as a public service. They have not responded to the Minister's letter on any modifications that have been made contrary to, or in excess of, the law's provisions. It is a matter that we keep. I'm saying that for the control of public administration, Mrs. Canelley. As regards the second, with regard to the region and the municipality, our Ministry has sent multiple inspectors and has already carried out five checks on the company. These five controls have imposed fines of about EUR 72 000, from what I see from the documents provided to me by the services. Obviously, the infringements involve non-functional inactivation plants, uncontrolled disposal of solid waste, non-legal waste storage and non-legal waste management. There is, therefore, - and I confirm your statements - a violation of the environmental rules which affect both environmental and public health issues. For this reason, we have asked the municipality in writing to extinguish and reveal a pipeline, which has been found illegally to have the waste water in adjacent stream. This has not been done by the municipality, and I think this is a delay of competence and competence by the Municipality of Andravidas - Cyclones. There is also a question from the region because it is a department responsible for stopping the licence, for lifting the licence, provided that infringements are detected by the Ministry of the Environment, it is the corresponding Development Directorate of the Region of Western Greece. These services have made the necessary communications on our part and the College of Inspectors has said in writing - so again the Department's department - that the pipeline should be dismantled and checked at the same time in the presence of the services. Unfortunately, I have to tell you that the partial disclosure of the pipeline and its sealing, which is stated in a document that I have today, took place without the presence of the services of the Ministry and without being informed. That is why I must tell you that we have now informed the Prosecutors' Office and the Court of First Instance, because we must also meet our obligations. For the past eight months, the Court of First Instance and the Prosecutor of the Court of First Instance have been informed by the Court of First Instance, as I know. However, in 2017 it became, Mrs. Canelley, as I know from my papers. The last thing I can tell you to close the information, because I said it all introductory terms, and I do not need to say much afterwards, is that the region on 20 July has asked us to activate action - as is said by legislation - on the application of environmental liability. Here I must say that we responded in writing on 10 August - very recently, after your first question I must confess, but in the regional document - that this is the responsibility of the Regional Committee on the Management of Environmental Damage. In other words, it is the region's responsibility to exercise it and we have done so in writing. You may have these documents. It is therefore necessary to take action. Therefore, I would like to say in conclusion that I fully agree that there is a breach of the rules on the environment. The judicial authorities have also been informed and must assume their responsibilities both by the decentralised administration which was informed after your question by a document of my own in July and by the region that was again informed in August, as well as the municipality that was informed about the revelation of the pipeline. There's a violation of legality rules.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u18	Here, Mrs. Canelle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u19	Thank you. The answer is paralytic. I'm paralyzed by the answer. Am I right?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u20	But for me it's real.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u21	Did you do it right? I'm willing to accept it so far. I'm talking about what you're to. I have in front of me a question you're telling me I didn't ask you about death. I would like to clarify - please be very careful - without being responsible for this, that it was tabled in writing. So you know that if it is not answered, when it comes back, it must be exactly the same and you can't add anything. So I am the victim of the Rules of Procedure and it is not a shortage I have not asked you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u22	Clearly.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u23	Secondly, I should like to tell you about the time you have taken, namely the 10th of August. Death comes August 22nd. This written question is tabled by us...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u24	July. We did.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u25	July. So between a question after an intervention we have a death. Death can't be reported to him. No way! That is not possible, because as I have informed him, you could also inform him. Suppose someone called me because I was interested in the area. It's written everywhere! Written in the media! You've intervened with the D.A. The fact is, there hasn't yet been any finding of death since you intervened. You come and tell me the creepy amount you have paid them, the tragic fine of EUR 72,000! Is that how death works? What does it mean? If the family needs to be compensated, where will it be compensated without finding? How will the pension possibly be adjusted by the woman and the two children? You want me to move on? The man, the dead, has a name: Angel Philippoulou. One of his two children needs special care. There has not been a finding of this death, and there has not been, since the residents have rightly been the agencies, having imposed fines, having notified the prosecutor. And nothing has happened, because the secret is hidden in a channel of channelling, illegally opened, which is a 1973 construction, i.e. the junta time. And for this conduit no one has responsibility for the area and can be approached. You're telling me they opened up and cut off a piece of the pipeline without the presence of the people. And I come to tell you something worse: that when the man died, the ones who rushed to see him, and when they went after officially picking him up the dead man, they had actually taken him out, stripped him, brought him into a situation where a worker is treating each other. Believe me, I tell you honestly, this does not allow any of us here to talk about agendas, about environmental issues, about the application of the principles, about state, about justice, about police action, about the involvement of all the relevant bodies. And we're accountable. I feel accountable, how can I tell you? I think this fatty's chasing me, chasing you, chasing everyone. I had to end this conversation, right now that we're talking about the prosecutor moving on her own, how can I tell you? The police get up and go with the paperwork there. We are entering a pre-election period for regional and municipal elections. On the idea that this could be the subject of an election campaign with micro-political criteria, I am ashamed to refer to the concept of 'political' and 'citizen'. That goes beyond the limit. I would point out one thing to you, Mr Famele: you cannot tell me that people are right, that the question is right, that you are with me in this question and in its results and that you come here and tell me that as a government - I am a Member of Parliament at the moment - you cannot do anything about the agency.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u26	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u27	You can't. One why you don't know, the other because it's not your responsibility, the other because it goes to the municipality, the other because it goes to the district, the other because the prosecutor's sleeping. That's what you told me. I call on you to say: 'I share responsibility at the moment, without being an executive.' There's nothing to be done. Because I will not share with you the responsibility that there is no political will to do so. Thank you. I am also tabling the documents to which I have referred.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u28	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u29	Very soon, Mr President. It is tragic to lose life, especially during working hours, of a family with young children.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u30	From stink.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u31	I won't handle it in political terms, Mrs. Canelley. I would ask that we all do this in this Chamber. Obviously, there will also be the necessary cover for child insurance and for the insurance rights of the victim's widow. And for any other matter, we'll be there together to cover it up. And I'm not just talking about myself. I'm referring to the entire National Representation. Secondly, on the subject of the pipeline: I will present to you, in your view, the document dated 14-9-2017 of the Municipality of Andravidas - Cyclone, which refers to the destruction and sealing of the pipeline. Despite what has not happened - I said it at the outset in my first speech - and I think it is a deficit that there has been no presence of environmental inspectors, not personally, to present it to you so that you are at least aware that this pipeline is no longer working and is sealed, at least in line with the statements made. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Environment and Energy, Mr Socrates Famelos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] From that point on, I didn't tell you there was nothing we could do. Obviously we take responsibility for the state and the Ministry level. I already said that. The National Delegation shall be informed on the basis of the responsibility. It's not on the side of irresponsibility. So I told you that long before these incidents happened, before your question was submitted, the file on our behalf went to the Prosecutors' Prosecutors' Prosecutors' Office with all the data. So our intervention to the prosecutor's office and justice has been done. And it was before your question the second, not before the first. In addition, I consider that an idea which is created here and perhaps concerns all of us to discuss it, beyond what the state has in its hands as intervention measures, is also public administration control. I therefore believe that both to the decentralised administration and to the district and to the municipality, our Ministry should take up a public administration control initiative as to whether senior officials, executives, are doing their job well to protect the interests of the citizen. As far as the business is concerned, I can assure you that there will also be political interventions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u32	We are now moving on to the second debate under number 104/29-10-2018 on a topical question by Mr. Achaias of the Democratic Association of the PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Migration Policy, on "Golden Keys" and direct assignments for refugees". The Minister for Migration Policy will answer Mr. Dimitrios Vitsas. Mr. Papatheodorou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, this really is the subject of this question, in my opinion, of direct procurement in the context of the exceptional constant needs for the management of the refugee. You saw the question. I am focused on one of the decisions you made yourself on 21 September 2018 and it concerns the rental of twenty-seven rooms, a total of twenty beds, at the hotel "SAMARINA RESORT DESIGN CHALET", seven months from September 30th 2018 to April 30th 2019, in Samarina, in Grevenna, for the total amount, directly assigned, of EUR 252,000. On that day you made several decisions corresponding to EUR 160,000, EUR 118,000, six numbers, for a number of other hotels. Why am I interested in this, and why am I showing it? I mention it, Minister, because beyond the fact that I notice that you have committed 1 million for 2018 and an equivalent amount for 2019, I am impressed that you identify as a place of relocation of refugees a luxurious hotel, five-star if I am not deceived, at an altitude of six hundred meters in the village of Samarina, cut off from any other access than that of tourists. And, of course, I wonder about the planning of the Ministry three - three and a half years after managing the refugee crisis, when it even seeks to make decisions on direct procurement either on the feeding or, as it is here, on the establishment of refugees. There are questions not only about the design but also about the specific choice made in Grevena and the hotel. Please answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u34	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u35	Mr. Papatheodorou, in my opinion, would suffice a call to the Ministry and a five-minute conversation to give you an answer. But you are the one who decides how Parliament is to be employed. I shall refer to the whole of your question. You insist at first in the communication word "Moria's panoramic". You haven't been to Moria.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u36	Please, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u37	Or if you've gone, because I know you've gone, you haven't faced the reality there. Otherwise, would you say a hellhole, a place in which everyone is vaccinated, an area in which children are offered education services, an area in which a musical instrumentation school operates? I always say that this is a marginal and difficult situation, which has to do with the flows. Why else, how can one respond to a level of criticism, when twelve thousand people have left from the beginning of the year - geographical restrictions have been lifted to twelve thousand people - and have come to mainland Greece, and five hundred other people have been returned either by the European Union - Turkey agreement or by voluntary return to their homelands, to their country of origin? We'll be there, and we'll keep trying. The situation in Moria, of course, is much better than it was in early September. At the end of November it will be even better until we reach point zero. In the second part of your question, what do you suggest? I'm trying to understand. It's a difficult situation in Moria. What process should we follow? Take them from Moria and take them to a plain environment, then climb them up into a mountainous environment, etc.Huh? Are these serious things? Thirdly, I'll say what I'd say on the phone. In July 2018 -- and due to the increased flows and due to the fact that the reserve in accommodation places was exhausted from the large flow of April through Evros – the First Reception and Identification Service gained interest in renting rooms, accommodations and hotels across Greece. Nine hotels in the Grevena region were responded - and I want to thank both the district manager and the local authorities and, of course, the entrepreneurs for their contribution - a few hundred accommodations in the Volvia region and a medical tourist resort in Stylis. Stylidas' resort in a sense was not accepted because it was not ready and we needed it very much. The process is now under way because of the service weakness of the First Reception and Identification Service, which was undertaken by the Directorate for the Protection of Refugees and Immigrants, which he did? He did - and you know it, because you are a law-approved - direct negotiation. And so is the right thing to do. You're not going to have a competition. You have nothing for which one will have a higher price, the other lower price. You want to host, put some shelter on people. With the nine hotel owners in Grevena the price was 10 euros per bed, because your colleague from KINAL did something of his own numbers. The beds are fixed by the EOT's licence. That is how anyone would say that we have moved forward so that I do not repeat what you said. At the moment, this amount has not imposed the state budget, i.e. it has come out of the budget that the Ministry of Migration Policy has and we have not asked for any more money, while at the same time calling for the European Union to be included in this concept to be returned to us. That's a good process. At the moment when we are also talking with our own agreement and pressure and agreement with the respective committee, namely Mr Avramopoulos and DigiHome, there is a corresponding effort to order the International Organisation for Migration and with our support for some thousands of other posts throughout Greece. I imagine you understand that the problem is not where it is, but the conditions and inhabitants of the village of Samarina do not feel isolated. At the same time, all measures have been taken, easy access from all accommodations to the city centre. Even if you were - as I have heard - not at the celebration of 28 October, you would see the people who live in Grevena in agreement with the refugees and immigrants.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u38	Minister, please complete. I've given you three times the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u39	Excuse me, I didn't notice. I would like to end with this, and the rest I shall refer to my dentistry. Just the same and perhaps some other accommodation had previously used UNHCR in 2017, the UNHCR, at a different price far higher, that is, that's what I mean.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u40	Here, Mr. Papatheodorou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u41	Minister, I'm really surprised. I'm surprised that a phone call had been made to the CPD commander in Moria, he would have told you that I've been three times the last twenty-five days ago with Mrs. Gennamas. You may need to see, if it is a hellhole or not, if there are small children living next to a fence in plastic scenes, if beyond the unsuitable conditions - there is no medical assistance available beyond CSCE because all non-governmental organisations have left and are outside because they think there have been criminal acts, child abuses, rape - if you had spoken, as I have said, with a mother who camped outside the police to prevent her from stealing the newborn child, if you were going to school and you saw that of the three thousand children inside, unfortunately, only ten. They do amazing work, but the conditions are inhuman and have been denounced by all non-governmental organizations and by doctors Without Borders. If you'd seen these things, you wouldn't have started like this. Moria, like the other CPTs, I know them very well and I visit them on a regular basis. We're going to what you didn't say now. Well, you're done and you said that "see that we negotiated with 10 euros the individual and the High Commissioner" - I'll tell you the number - it was with 36 euros the person. So what exactly does the Ministry of Migration Policy do? Real Estate? You went and rented a ski resort. This hotel, Minister, is at the top of the Basilica, six hundred meters. I have no objections to what you said, because, in fact, as has been published since July, the District Director Karapidis came and told you that he called on the hotel owners in the region to welcome refugees to their accommodations in response to a negotiation they made with you. What do you have? Do you have a pigeon and share without knowing or not rated if in a ski resort is the right place to house Syrians who left Moria? Don't you evaluate that? Unless he does - I tell you - an extension of tourist season of the Ministry of Migration Policy on behalf of the Ministry of Tourism. Because I don't see anything else. Not to tell us that 'you know, maybe we didn't count well' because in a room where you said there are five to seven beds, do you know how much the rental of the room per month does to your own sum? Three times five, a thousand five hundred. Three, seven, twenty, one. Do you think the EUR 2.100 per month is a negotiation? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Minister, will you explain to us what the design is, according to which you have chosen this area for six hundred or seven hundred refugees for six months? Why do you know something? If there's a lot of money in it right now, then at some point the money will be over. I am not at all sure, following our complaints, that the European Commission will consider this expenditure to be eligible, which has no meaning of feasibility and no meaning - if you wish - of recompense. You simply had the money and went and rented these rooms. For local businessmen, I'm not saying, it's beneficial, but the Ministry of Migration Policy is doing this job? Is that his target? Are these the criteria? Because you know this money is not just for housing - feeding is from another budget - but it is also for integration. Will a training structure for these children be set up in the ski resort, for example, so that those of these refugees want to attend Greek courses? There will be health services there, when according to our information when it has snow on the ski resort, access to medical staff is difficult? Do you know the fact that when they came with the coach to settle in this particular...?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u42	But don't ask the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u43	Good. I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute or so. When the refugees came, they refused to go down to the hotel in Samarina. What I see is this: Explain how by direct assignments can they leave without any design so much money? Why do you know? When we talk about a refugee scandal, that's what OLAF is looking for. He's not looking for anything else. He's looking for why you gave 252,000 euros to a businessman to house a hundred and twenty-seven people at his hotel.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u44	Before I give you the floor, Minister, I have the following to announce: It is known in this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, since they have previously participated in the educational programme of the "Democracy Workshop" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament of twenty-two students and an attendant of the 2nd Municipal School of Sweet Waters. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u45	Mr. Papatheodorou, keep your dentistry to reread it. And you'll see what you've said. I want to tell you this. What are you telling us? That we have very bad conditions in Moria, but why do you take them in very good conditions?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u46	Why are you taking them to the ski resort?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u47	What do you think? That, for example, it's not good for them to go to Vassilica and to the ski resort of Greeks? You have to tell us something. We took eight hundred people from Moria and elsewhere, and took them to Grevenna. And what kind of invention is this about a room? A room for example in this hotel costs about 3,000 euros for a month. You don't know that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u48	I know that very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u49	You know that very well, because you've probably visited it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u50	I've heard. He just doesn't have a job.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u51	That doesn't matter. Doesn't he have work to do in winter? Do you know a ski run that doesn't have a job in winter?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u52	You ask yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u53	So I say that with an agreement like Volvi and not with Stylla, which we have done with the local entrepreneurs - whom I thank - we have found a solution. In the next period we will have, and with the expression of interest made by the IMO, other solutions. This will get rid of the islands and at the same time we will have time to create more permanent structures either in apartments or in hosting centres. We're done with this. Now we're going to finance. Is it possible to say it yourself? "After our complaint, will your application not be eligible in committee?"
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u54	Obviously.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u55	Is that what you're doing? Are you trying to create obstacles to the funding of the programmes? Mr Papatheodorou, you said so and said, 'Obviously'. So that's the opposition that's like that? Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u56	It's your decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u57	Thirdly, we will continue to try and shape them even better, despite the fact that we know that redistribution in Europe solves the problem. Fourthly, I told you something and, really, you're a critical legal and very good, aren't you? I don't want you to present yourself, I tell you. Is it possible that you do not know that there is another thing about directly entrusting the negotiation following an expression of interest? You know that, of course you do. Maybe you've done a lesson. When the negotiation is completed, Mr. Papatheodorou, what are you doing? You're running a competition? No, you're outsourced. You know that. We don't have to buy oranges here, we don't have to buy cars. We have to put people in houses. You said yourself the difference between what the same people paid a year ago and what the Ministry of Migration Policy negotiated. What are these things now? That's right. If the suitability of these structures is given, and if you have gone - which say you have not gone - to Vassilica, fine, one would say, someone lives there. I, too, would suggest that the Greeks should also pay a visit. I have to tell you that we will put pressure on the Ministry of Migration Policy and on other ministries, and I hope that there will also be other development programmes in the region, because in addition to the money that will be given to stay in Grevena, there will also be a situation of at least EUR 80,000 per month in the local market, because these people are not eating with catering but cooking, buying things. That is why the price paid by the IMO, that is to say, that the European Commission is paying for the focus, is too small. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u58	We are eloquently reaching the last question, which will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development, Mr Stergios Pitsirlas. Subsequent to the seventh question, number 9223-10-2018, on the second question by MP II Athens of the Democratic Comparison of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject of "Government misinformation, that the guarantors of the overdue households are protected". Mr. Carras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, when the law on debtd households was passed in 2010, it was decided that guarantors would not be protected at the same time as borrowers if the latter requested legal protection. On the way this provision proved particularly hard for guarantors, because it is usually in small housing loans that the family itself is the family, it is the husband, wife, child, and father, as the banks asked to have a personal guarantee. After that, when this crisis was glorified and we have now reached the great category of red loans, housing, we have started the debate - and I must say that I was one of the first to open it - to extend the validity of the judicial decision, concerning the Katseli Act, and to the guarantors, because with the legislation in force, when the first debtor is protected, the guarantor is called upon to pay the full amount of the initial debt with all interest and expenses. Of course, the answer I had from Mr Papadimitriou at the time was that the guarantors are prosperous and do not need protection. I shall submit this in the official minutes, because Mr Papadimitriou's reply is recorded. But we don't live in this. About a month ago, in a television conversation at the 'KANDRA' channel, as also published in the newspaper 'THE ABOUT KYRIKIS' - and I will also present audiovisual material and printed material - there was a debate between the Special Secretary of Private Debt and the President of notaries and it was stated that the guarantors of red loans are now being protected. I have therefore sought the last provisions, which were introduced during the summer in an amendment to the Law on Excessive Households, and all I have encountered is that if the guarantor pays the first-collection debt, he has the right to bring the first-collection claim against the first-collectioner. However, the question arises here: If the first debtor is unable to pay, it means that he is insolvent and at that time the guarantor is called but if the guarantor pays, he will receive nothing from the insolvent debtor. It's a false hope you give him. So my question, in order not to exceed time, is: What the Special Secretary said, that the guarantors are being protected, can the government identify or misinform us in view of the expiry of the Katseli Act and if these people are left in the press and in the announcements, will they be unprotected and will they not know their fate? Because the guarantors are called - and I would remind you and I shall end, Mr President - to pay the sum of money and not the debt that the court determines for the first debtor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u60	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u61	Mr Karras, first of all - we will agree - that the issue of red loans is a very difficult, very heavy one, but we have to deal with it as a country. And that cannot be done with wishes. Measures should therefore be implemented and operations carried out in order to reduce the volume of red loans, because this requires the public interest. If it is not reduced, the cost again will be paid by the Greek people. In this effort, of course, we as a government are trying to take all the measures we can to protect the first residence. And from earlier, we're improving what we can. So there are some improvements that are clear in the June Act, which concern first of all what you have said. That's not bad. It's good to have it. Because, as you know very well, the credit contracts are essentially obliged to resign from the plea of divorce.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u62	Unequivocally impossible.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u63	Yeah. They are obliged to resign, I say, from the plea of divorce, but it is important that he has entered. Secondly, we have extended the protection of guarantors to business loans and not only to family and household affairs. Therefore, even in business loans, the guarantors can be protected if the first debtor has recourse to the extrajudicial mechanism. Indeed, it is done automatically without needing the guarantor's application, as is necessary in the family. Thirdly, we have made arrangements to facilitate the submission of an application to the Katselis Act - Stage by the guarantors, in that they are not required to submit the volume of supporting documents required for the first debtor, and it is important. Fourthly, we have changed in the multiplier and in the June law the basis for calculating the protection limits, which is very important. From the objective value we have gone to commercial value, and that is of enormous importance. Finally, we also decided in June and will start applying the measure as from 1/1/2019, to subsidise the instalments of housing loans at very high rates of subsidy. For families with an income of up to EUR 8,500, the subsidy will be 95% and that is where it will be reduced. However, for the low-wages, the subsidy will be very large. Therefore, loans will be served and this is a form of protection very important. In fact, in consultation with the banks, it will not even have to be applied. We'll have the picture, and we'll give the subsidy right away. In this interview you mentioned, the Special Secretary for Private Debt Management tried to mobilise the guarantors and to tell them what their protection is. In other words, he tried to tell them that if they resort to the Katseli - Stathakis Act, if they resort to the extrajudicial compromise from the application they have protection and, of course, inform the public of all other measures. It has not been said, then, that there is a general protection for all. And since you're going to testify, I'm going to testify to the narrative of the interview that proves there was no misinformation. So the government is trying to inform with too many initiatives about what protection they may have, I have described you as measures. We believe that all these measures, given the problem, provide adequate protection and we can assure that as long as the current government exists this protection will exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u64	Mr. Carras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, on the question of protection and the parameters you have described are primarily for the first-timers. I shall therefore say in summary that, in the case of the extrajudicial compromise which you have spoken about, the guarantor also has to take part, and in the end, if the compromise is reached, it is only exempted from the percentage in which the loans are regulated, but it is not relieved of liability if the debtor does not pay. Secondly, the subject of my question was for housing guarantors. I haven't opened an extrajudicial compromise. Therefore, while remaining on television and newspapers, you will allow me to say that it has emerged inaccurately that there are good news from the debate with the Special Secretary that the guarantors are now protected by a special provision - I have not met it anywhere, but that is what he says - which was allegedly included in the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u66	The articles or the transcript?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u67	And the transcript is here and the flash drive. To testify, I don't have them to keep them. It has been passed recently and we have been told that it covers 80% of the guarantors. The world, reading or listening, stays with the impression that it is protected. But it's not true. But regardless of this, I am commenting on the following: there was credit for participation - public contribution to housing loans that had been subject to the protection law of overdue households. I must say that for three years this provision had not been mobilised. There was a sum of about 100,000 000 000 'frozen' in the budget and only when I asked Mr Drasakis a timely question why this money had not been made available, the government was also mobilised. But that is not about the guarantors. It does not involve the State in the payment that the guarantor will be forced to make after the law of Katseli for the first time. I don't want to get tired. I have to say that. The guarantor owes all the debt he owes if he does not have any favourable rules after a positive judicial decision, and that is what you have to agree, Minister, because there is no equivalent. You said that the guarantor quits the plea of divorce. Therefore, when the loan contract was signed - of course, by commenting on the 'dispute objection' - the husband, the mother, the child of the ordinary citizen who is going to get a housing loan does not even know what it is, as he does not even know what the objection of division is - do not go to legal now, you understand what I mean. Therefore, it comes - and I am concerned about - the issue of guarantors and I have not heard from your answer exactly how it is protected. You have described that the first debtor is protected by the latest regulations - there is one difference - you said that the documents tabled are less - it is still not about the guarantor - and it is still the impression that I, at least, received from the discussion on television and from the publications that the guarantor has nothing to do with it. And here I am focusing on my comment on misinformation, because as you have put it, the guarantor must act. Does the guarantor know that he has to go under the conditions? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In conclusion, Mr President - yesterday's papers give pending cases to Katselis a hundred and fifty thousand forty-six - in the first half of 2018, figures - of which some fifty thousand have been dealt with. How are the others to be protected? The law is supposed to end. I don't know if the government will decide to extend. We should listen to the extension if it is decided today on the occasion of this debate. My question remains: The guarantor how is he really protected when he does not know that he has to go to court or when he does not have the conditions to go to court and at some point has regulated the debt of the first debtor or has contributed the public, I am not saying no, but the difference between the total debt and the regulation, is paid by the guarantor. That is what we must protect, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u68	It's understood, Mr. Carras. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u69	The protection, grant of the housing loan as from 1 January means that these loans would be served. So there's no need for the first-timer to pay any more, nor will the guarantor. This is a form of protection. Secondly, Mr Kourmont has tried to say that, for housing loans, the guarantors should also have recourse to protection in order to protect themselves. And in this we have taken too many initiatives with too many conferences in Greece, creating many information offices and we also have information about how many thousands of people have been served by these processes in order to be informed. So what we do with the guarantors is that we mobilise them to know that they have to move in parallel with the first time. Also, whether or not the procedure will be concluded, as soon as the application is submitted, it shall cease any auction procedure or anything else. So, just with the submission, the period of protection begins. I also repeat this because it is very important, changing the limits on which it is calculated what is being protected is very important and we should not ignore it. So, given the circumstances, I repeat, we do the maximum that can be done right now. We do our utmost to protect both first-time and guarantors. You insist on your speech and do well for the reasons you have said - I fully agree with what needs to be done - but, as you know, we have legislation for guarantors. These measures which I have announced to you before, their potential to resort to, which must be known, in order to be protected, the cessation of all moves against them by submitting the application, their convenience not to have a file of papers - the guarantors, not the first debtors, are obliged by the bank to present it once the application has been lodged - are very specific measures. I repeat that Mr Kourmossiou, with the responsibility that he has tried from this broadcast to say precisely and on that basis to mobilise the guarantors. We think that together, we are creating a framework of protection and committing ourselves - I repeat, I do not want to go into detail - that, as far as this government is concerned, this framework will not be disturbed. So far, we have ensured very important protection for the first residence for both front-runners and guarantors.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u70	That concludes the debate on topical and urgent questions. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-02-S1-commons.u71	With the agreement of the House at 11.26p., the sitting is closed for Monday, November 5, 2018 at 18.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
