ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 20-6-2018 authorisation, PRACULES' minutes were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau of the PPA's minutes, of Wednesday, 20 June 2018, as regards the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Creating the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the State of Israel on the profitable employment of dependent members of the Members of the Disciplinary Missions or Consular Authorities and other provisions’.]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Friday 22 June 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1821/18-6-2018 topical question of the Member of Parliament of the Republic of New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Javara to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: ‘Application of Regulation 679/2016 on personal data in the Debt Information Companies’. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 1822/18-6-2018 by MP Lesvos of New Democracy Mr Charalambos Athanasios to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: "Drogational link between Lemnos and Saint Efstratios". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 1802/12-2018 by MP Corinth of New Democracy Mr Christou Dimas to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: ‘Absorbance of EDF resources 2014-2020’. 3. Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: 'Does the government, for the sake of creditors, oversee the regulated net of protecting the interest of the debts of the overdue households?'. 4. The 1801/12-2018 topical question of the Athens of Independent Greeks, Athanasios Papachristopoulos to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on "Television Licences". 5. The Question No 1751/5-6-2018 by MP Lesvos, New Democracy, Haralambos Athanasiou, Minister for Migration Policy, concerning ‘measures taken to dismantle the islands of the Eastern Aegean and especially Lesvos’. 6. The 1748/5-6-2018 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Migration Policy, on the subject: "Truths in the Centre for Reception and Identification (CYT) Orestiada Bridge. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 1741/4-6-2018 topical question by MP MEP I of the Central Association Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "About the legality of the Skouria mine." 8. The 1730/30-5-2018 topical question by MP MEP I of the Central Association Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Lack of democratic student representation in the PSC". 9. The Question No 1674/21-5-2018 by MP Lassithi of the New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Plakkatakis to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy on the subject: "E. on the supply of new ferry ships from the Hellenic Coast Guard to strengthen surveillance of maritime borders, effective investigation and rescue and the fight against crime at sea." REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No. 6058-17-2018 of the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Giannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The PPC of the TWGs is threatening with power cuts - at risk for crops." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMARKK KEGEROGLO to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on "To approve the decision of the University of Crete to set up a Business and Tourism Administration School". 3. The question asked by MP II of the PASOK Democratic Incorporation - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Economy and Development about the intentions of the US Government to impose import duties and the impact of the measure on Greek exports. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We begin with the first with number 1817/18-6-2018, a topical question from the Member of the Ioannina Radical Left Coalition Mr. Maria Triantafyllou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'Undoubted the continuation of farm support from Measure 11 'biological crops', for farmers of mountainous regions in Itoloakarna, who served and want to continue to serve organic and quality livestock.' The question will be answered by the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Evangelos Apostolos. Madam Colleague, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the question concerns Measure 11 ‘biological crops’ of the 2014-2020 Rural Development Programme, Action 11.1.2, on aid for conversion to organic practices and production methods in livestock and Action 11.2.2, on aid for conservation of organic practices and production methods in livestock. Let us stress here that successive amendments have been made concerning both the initial appropriations and their breakdown by action and by regional section. The amendments were made to improve the functioning of the measure, and I would say that it is right that the Ministry of Rural Development has taken on the separate budget for the participation of young farmers. In the second amendment we have already had a positive development, namely that there has been an increase in public spending, national and Community participation, for both actions and from EUR 200 million we have reached EUR 218 million with similar increases for both actions. In the most recent amendment, the fourth, the last, the public expenditure on both actions is slightly increased, reaching 219 million and something and changing overall the breakdown by action. The trend towards care for new entrants is obvious. Why am I saying all this and what's the problem? The farmers supported this measure. There was too much involvement. However, a problem arose mainly for the Prefecture of Iotalokarnania and specifically for the Region of Western Greece with the peak of the Prefecture of Iotalokarnania. Many farmers in mountain regions, who comply with the organic production regulation for over five and six years, are preoccupied, but are not among the beneficiaries. Why? Because there has been limited molecules - I say again - mainly in Itolo-Carnania and, indeed, I am talking about mountain areas that produce exclusively organic meat and not organic feed. We understand that geography is such that there are not many grazing areas, etc. That is why, precisely because of geomorphology on the one hand, but also hydrologic conditions on the other, they remain outside. So there are two questions, which are exactly the same as in the timely question I tabled, Minister. The first question concerns the criteria. How did the money get distributed? On what criteria? How did the increments share? There is a predetermined budget for each region. So, I'm saying again, what criteria do the money share? I am talking about Iato-Carnania, mainly because it is an area with most of the farmers who had been included in the previous programme. Secondly - of course, we will also have the possibility of saying it in dentistry - what treatment opportunities exist in this programme that has arisen?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u4	My dear colleague, I understand your anxiety about the fate of many of the producers who had joined the previous biological action programme and have now been considered to be perpetrators. As you have said in your position, the interest in these programmes has exceeded every expectation, every precedent, which shows that interest is too great for quality agriculture, which is one of our main weapons in the operation of rural space. However, we are in trouble, because we cannot respond to so many and large amounts of these requests. That is why, of course, we have made a move, we have significantly increased the funds available in this case. However, let us see the figures for the West Greece region, where we have three thousand three hundred three hundred applications for an amount of EUR 71 million and in the Regional Unit of Atalokarania, two thousand seven hundred ninety-one applications for an amount of EUR 61 million, while on the basis of the initial allocation of EUR 38 million in the region, which represented a total amount of EUR 17.5% of the funds in the invitation and was the largest amount that they were entitled to, because it has a similar organic livestock that was allocated to the region. As far as the integrations are concerned, we have seven thousand seven hundred nine-year-old farmers, with an amount of EUR 219 million, in the region of Western Greece a thousand seven hundred and ninety-three to 41.9 million, and in the Regional Unit of Itonokarnania a thousand four hundred and fifty-three to 35.2 million. On the basis of the membership figures, 81% of the recruited farmers and 84% of the resources of the region of Western Greece for organic livestock are directed to the Regional Unit of Itonakarania, which proves that it is supported, as it should be, especially livestock farming carried out in mountain areas. Unfortunately, the resources of the Rural Development Programme are limited. We cannot cover all activities throughout the country. However, it must be understood that during implementation - that is to say, the Rural Development Programme - we will consider any unused resources, which will result from other measures - because this is the case with priority - to be given as a second call for organic livestock, in order specifically to strengthen mountain farming and, of course, organic livestock farmers to continue their activities. In addition, there is a possibility that resources will arise from those who have been considered to be beneficiaries, but will not be attracted. It's happening, too. These resources will therefore be directed to regions with greater demand, particularly in organic livestock, and - I insist again - for mountain organic farming.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u5	Madam Colleague, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, the facts are indeed the ones you mentioned. In fact, from the existing money, Ioannina, as it was, of course, because it is the county that makes most organic products, has taken a share. Take note, however, of the following, which I have put into my prototype: although there were larger amounts per animal unit, as the measure states, there are many in Ieto-Carnania. They are chosen and do not go any further, they are preoccupied. It is really a very important issue because they are farmers who have been starting for several years, they have invested in it, but they cannot continue. It's from mountainous areas without other molecules. You referred to two measures, two treatments that may alleviate the problem. Be careful, however: I say again that they are farmers from mountain areas without any other possibility, they have no other molecules and by 2020 they cannot do anything else. Minister, we were aware of what we call production demolition. The country has gradually turned from surplus into deficits in both agricultural and livestock products. We also know and know better than we do that there has been and there is an undeniable need for strategic planning in agricultural production, what will be produced and how. In fact, important steps have been taken to support Greek stockfarming, which also plays a role in social terms, I would say, in Greek reality. But here I will insist that, as clear as possible, you should be placed. You have spoken to me about two things, any insufferable resources and some who are beneficiaries and do not want to continue the measure, as well as that all of them will enter the second invitation to mountain farming so that the matter can be resolved. I must say that I would like to hear something more, precisely - and I say it again - because I know very well that we are talking about mountain regions, mountainous Atolocarnania and people who have given all their time and money to organic farming. I also point out what you said just now, that it is a crucial issue, a critical size, to support quality farming, to support quality production, to support quality products, to have quality products that are competitive and to offer added value. The country needs it, because this is essentially the beginning of productive reconstruction and a substantial exit from the crisis that we have experienced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u8	I will repeat again that there will be a second invitation. In this second invitation, we will try - in particular with the criteria we will set ourselves - to strengthen farmers in mountain regions, because it is simply the only activity that ensures an income in these areas. From there, as you said, Mrs Triantafyllou, in the Rural Development Programme we have given particular attention to three activities, including support for livestock and, in particular, for sheep and goat farming. That is why the budget for the current programming period is more increased than in the previous programming period. There are some criteria. The first and main criterion for allocation was the area of mountain pasture in the region as a percentage of the country as a whole. This was precisely the criterion used to specifically strengthen livestock farming in mountain areas. A second criterion was the dynamics developed and the importance of livestock farming in the region concerned, where there is indeed. So these two main criteria serve the region, serve mountain farming. As far as the next one is concerned - I would say - an invitation, how it will be made available, what we are particularly interested in is, of course, ensuring as many sums as possible. I would like to believe that we will satisfy a large part, because the demands have exceeded all expectations, showing that there is an interest in this particular area. So let us see how we can do as best with the resources we have to meet these demands.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Minister. Subsequent to the fifth under number 1833/19-6-2018, a topical question by the Member of Parliament, Etolokarnania, of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr.Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on "Problems of ovine and caprine animals from the continuing fall in the price of meat and milk". Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in a situation of total collapse there are small and medium-sized farmers, sheep and goat farmers throughout the country, from Crete to Evros. They are experiencing the consequences, the deadlocks of the Common Agricultural Policy, which are codecision and implemented with absolute consistency, over time by all Greek governments and support the parties in Europe. In particular, in the last two years we have been squeezing prices in milk and meat. We have prices which, together with the high cost of production, lead to a violent mass dismantling of the extensive sheep and goat production, which has been largely in family forms. It has the fate of the other livestock sectors, cow farming, pig farming, which have been concentrated in a few hands for years in large capitalist enterprises. The ovine and caprine animals are moving in this direction. In the period 2005-2013, forty-eight thousand nine hundred sheep and thirty-three thousand four hundred sheep, that is close to 35% of farmers, while on the other hand the large units that had only 6% share on the livestock market in 2000, was launched at 33% in 2013. This situation continues at a rapid pace. Here is whom your cartels-growers policy serves to blackmail farmers, throw prices, to have cheap raw materials, to reduce their profits, while milk imports continue to be made intact and undisturbed on the free, unconscious market you are serving. Eight processing monopolies are diluted by 35% of the production of cheese products in the country. These are data from Eurostat, 2015. On top of that, Minister, you have no money - and we will then say about organic livestock - you are subsidising them for free with hot money to extend and modernise their facilities from people's tax revenues. As we mentioned, the products are purchased from farmers, however, extremely expensive, greedy in consumption for the people's families. And your government, in front of this destruction of poor farmers, sells seaweed for silk ribbons. What are you telling them? Faithworthy in the directions of the European Union's common agricultural policy, you tell them that the way out is the creation of interbranch organisations. All together, that is, grouped, monopolies and livestock farmers, wolves along with sheep! The farmers must see - there is experience - from other products in which they have become interprofessional. They were thrown out producers and proved to be production control tools, that is, in short, monopolies' domination tools. Minister, the demands made under this poor situation are applications for survival for poor farmers. Firstly, we call for direct aid to be granted for the huge losses suffered by sheep and goat farmers from unacceptably low prices in milk and meat. Secondly, we call for measures to reduce production costs, for duty-free oil such as shipowners, cheap agricultural streams, abolition of VAT on farmland and on animal feed, deletion of ENPI, ELGA, EFKA or other huge debts, as long as this crisis lasts. Thirdly, we are calling for measures to set minimum guaranteed prices and ensure income for the survival of farmers themselves and their herds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u11	Minister, here you go, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u12	Colleague, our choice to support livestock is self-evident. But you have to understand one thing. You must understand that this support is exercised under the rules governing the common agricultural policy. We have a completely different approach to this issue, but we - like the large part of the country's political world, I would say - have chosen this option and we are serving it. From there on, there is indeed a crisis in the dairy sector, which, in order to deal with it, we must verify what its real dimensions are and make decisions effective. For example, you are talking about bans on the movement of milk and milk products in our country. We can't do that. There is no such possibility. As provided for by national and Union legislation, we apply in this case. What are we doing to defend local dairy production, because we saw that the crisis was coming particularly from the northern countries of the European Union because of great dairy production? After intense and painful consultation within the European Union, we have introduced by Law 4492/2017 the compulsory indication of the country of origin, the country of milk milk and milk products in order to function in the direction of transparency in order not to mislead the consumer, but also to have a consumer's interest - which is the case - the desire to buy Greek products. So, beyond the PDO feta which is compulsory for the production of sheep and goatmeat Greek milk, for the other dairy products, we have the compulsory registration. But it is an issue that has been closed. At the same time, it must also be understood that we cannot interfere with the prices that the Greek market and the European market are creating. We may at some point not want them, but unfortunately supply and demand are the ones that shape prices. We are, of course, making a great effort from there in the context of the control of healthy competition on the market, in order to see how we are going to deal with the grievances and practices that are being implemented and which are not in line with the functioning of the space. We have therefore given immediate priority to improving the institutional framework for the control system. At the same time, of course, we are also working on a system of stricter sanctions that is dissuasive, I would say, for any infringement, a system which will reach the public of all infringements and set operating conditions and rules in this process, which will have as their main feature transparency. More I'll tell you in my denture.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr Moraite, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u14	From your position, Minister, it seemed clear that it is not your intention to give solutions to the acute problems of farmers. Some patches, some vague promises of the law passed a few months ago, do not respond to anything, and this proved to be practical. They do not give even a breath to desperate poor farmers who really cry out, a voice of anxiety. But they must not be illegitimate - you have also confessed - about the future that this policy prescribes. They must organise their struggle, put in obstacles, claim solutions that will respond to their problems, so that they and their families can live with dignity. Small and medium-sized farmers are not only confronted, Minister, with low prices. They are confronted, as I have said, with the great cost of production - and that is why you did not say a word - with the carpets of ELGA, ENPIA, with the tax burden of EFKA, with the very expensive oil, which on the islands today touches the 2 euros. You have oil, as we have told you many times, for shipowners' ships, but you don't have one for farmers' tractors and milkeries. They pay high-priced farm power. Minister, by the way, about what we said earlier about the problem of organic livestock, do you know what the farmers are responding to in Atalo-Carnania, in Larissa, which is also very serious? They answer: They say that organic products are not grown in mountain areas. Uh, then where are they cultivated, Minister? You care about them! And those who fly out are really these livestock farmers keeping local tribes in the mountains of the country. To whom does your policy serve once again? Minister, with your policy, you aim, as I have said, to strike the traditional sector, which is the main source of income for the inhabitants of mountainous and disadvantaged areas and on our islands. Until a few years ago there were 85% of animals and 80% of farms. They produce high-quality and high-quality products, such as milk and meat, because of the extensive form of cultivation and of domestic breeds, as we have said. Besides, you hit that with the coupled reinforcement. When you put a production plan, where are you targeting? Racised livestock has the potential to produce such quantities, but mountain farmers do not have it. This bad situation, however, experienced by poor farmers in the country, is not a storm in a star sky. It is a declining course within the "revenue" of the European Union, which you all serve, which unleashes the small producers and makes the cartels soaking the trouble and sweat of the producers and squeeze out popular incomes in consumption. Poor farmers must draw conclusions from their experience. They must be clear that against this front of the government - the European Union - monopolies - milk and meat cartel must create the social alliance with the workers, with the other populace. Because it is the same anti-grassroots policy that leads farmers to sell their products and workers who have to buy them perfectly in popular consumption. If this alliance does not strengthen, the bankruptcy and the extinction of poor and middle farmers are inevitable, as are poverty for the rest of the wide folk. That is why we invite them in the week that comes to us, where there are movement across the country in the direction set by the Pan-Hellenic Block Committee, focusing on these livestock mobilisations, from Crete to Evros, to dynamically give the "residents" and to respond forcefully, because a solution to their problems will only give the struggle and not the vague promises of your Government. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u16	Colleague, this is how the farmers will operate on this front. That is where it must be understood that it is only collaborative that it is the one that gives strength and the opportunity at the same time to intervene in the movement, in the exploitation that is being carried out. Call the farmers right now to organise. In particular, I have to tell you that, despite the reactions that have occurred, it seems that they result in the establishment of an inter-branch organisation in the field. You disagree, but we say that it is the only condition for the industry to be able to rely on as a whole. So there, it seems that things are going, towards an interprofessional. However, I would like to refer to one thing you are ignorant of. Do you know in this crisis that the dairy sector, especially in ovine and caprine animals, who keeps prices stable and far higher than the average?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u17	Who?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u18	Cooperative organisations in our country, which are also engaged in cheese-making as their activity, continue to pay the cooperative farmers at the prices they hold - I would say - and face the crisis. From there on, what do we do? I will tell you this: only with the intervention we made in the related aids, we have not only increased the beneficiaries, but also doubled the corresponding amount. Suffice it to tell you, then, that in livestock farming from 47.5 million last year we went to 87.3 million euros, which means that for each cow farmer from EUR 6.2 we went to EUR 9.7 the animal. Also, in the cow farm from 140 euros, we took the animal to 193 euros. So we helped as much as we could with the possibilities we had. From there on, in fact, for us, as I said in the previous question and I repeat now, it is the livestock sector that I would say is our first concern, it has been reflected in the strategic development plan for the period 2014-2020. So we ask farmers once again to cooperate, to bear in mind that we are following the course of the area. I can't say any more. At the moment, we are already making an effort to see that part of the production that has been withdrawn by means of a social supply process is also possible. We are concerned about this. We are also concerned - we are watching the space, because we want to support it - ending the job, seeing what losses it has had, how it has gone and, from there on, with the possibilities that we can have as a country to support it. It must be understood, Mr Colleague, that we cannot - our choice - make decisions and act without a consultation. When we talk about it, I think you're interested in when other aids will be paid, when we talk about what will happen with the Rural Development Programme, how to absorb it, where we're going to go. So all of this, as you can see, is accompanied by corresponding commitments which we cannot, at least at the present time, breach.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the second under number 1819/18-6-2018 is a topical question by MP Evros of the New Democracy. Anastasios Prussias Prussias to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "TWO problems to be addressed". The Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food will answer Mr. Vassiliou. Mr. Treasury, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Undersecretary, the arable land of the river Evros and its effluents, Arda and Erythropotamus, and this year have been critically affected by severe weather phenomena, rainfall and, due to the flooding phenomena, as a result of all these water tumors and especially those from the semi-peripheral regions, not to reach the catchment area of Evros and to be used by the local TEIs, but also by the OIE, all the drainage system, which unfortunately is currently having serious problems. First, it's all draining channels filled with firing materials. Secondly, we do not have a natural flow, because of the high level of the river, so that drainage pumping can be used. So, in order for the drainage pumps to function, power is needed. Farmers cannot take responsibility for not being accountable. Of course, what we are calling for, as is the region of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace demanded, is to separate care in terms of operation, maintenance of drainage pumps with that mainly of irrigation, which is indeed the responsibility of the local TWG and the Orestiada Gov­ern. Unfortunately, KYA, the joint ministerial decision, adopted in 2017, does not fully cover the problem, thus covering only if we have an emergency in the prefecture because of a significant flooding phenomenon. Please, Mr Secretary, go into explicit legislation or clarify it through a ministerial decision, which will entrust the regions with tasks and separate the subject of the two pumps that I have said. I also ask if it is your intention to cover and put in Measure 4.3.1 of the 2014-2020 Rural Development Programme, as far as the replacement and subjugation of all the irrigation networks of the Mid-Suflion Mid-Sufli. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Papoutsis, the region of Evros is indeed suffering from floods. The Ministry of the Environment Special Secretariat forms the National Flood Risk Management Programme, which is a key part of the flood risk management plans. In Thrace, the specific flood flood risk management plan for Evros river basin and the strategic environmental impact study has already been drawn up. However, in some quality works, where necessary, with the exception of irrigation, it has been foreseen by studying the construction of the project and drainage. In these cases, however, the work constructed is considered to be uniform and indivisible and cannot be separated. Most projects in the Evros region belong to this category. The costs of administration, operation and maintenance of these projects are borne by farmers by irrigation and drainage. The request made by the competent agency, the Directorate-General for Rural Development, on 4-4-2018, was answered five days later. These works are therefore considered to be single and irrigation cannot be separated from drainage. What can the Greek State do, which can contribute to restoring damage to TWGs following a thorough study? Indeed, after last year's timely question, the TWGs in the region were mobilised and have asked for damages to the irrigation network. The evaluation is carried out during this period and the support to be given will be announced. As far as Measure 4.3.1 is concerned, which is very important and you are asking for specific information on these projects, I will be placed in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Prussakis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u24	Thank you very much. Mr Secretary, until 2010 it was indeed uniform, as you said, pumping stations. The irrigation and drainage plants were open and the pumping stations were in operation. However, the Greek state was distinguished for its economy. It credited all these regional services within the Ministry of Rural Development, which actually covered the costs of drainage. However, since we had the vote on KALIKARAT, they have had serious problems and do not have this credit. We don't think you're gonna split up. We say to cover their costs in terms of electricity and in terms of maintenance due to other problems. Our people are currently in a protracted crisis, because they cannot constantly have PPC's threat, that is to say, along with the current that will be interrupted for pumping in terms of drainage, the current of irrigation will also be cut off. You realize we've already been in this period. I would also like to inform you that with Law 4513/2018 'Energy Communities and other provisions' it has been intelligently provided for, and even by copying European Union policies that govern them. I, as a good Member of the county, sent letters to all the co-legislators in order to make use of this provision. But you should guide them. You have to give them all these financial instruments to make use of this legal instrument, so that they can overcome the problems with regard to the operation of both classes of pumps. I think you have a duty to do that. You personally show a diligence and thank you, for remembering that last year we were again discussing similar problems in our prefecture. On this occasion, Mr President, I would like to tell you that this year the county was severely affected by heavy rainfall, which followed on from about three months ago, that is to say, we have had severe flooding and for the past two months we have been experiencing severe drought. This is why the municipalities of the prefecture have been activated, and in particular the Municipality of Souflis - Dimotichos - Orestiados, have met and recorded the whole situation that currently prevails throughout the county. We're really depressed in the literality of all of us. And that's why I'm handing you over for the Minutes, the record of all the Vice-Presidents, the three I said, in which they record the situation. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Anastasios Prussakis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I shall shortly put a written question on the subject. I am simply making a move today to notify the State Secretary for Rural Development and I have just made the same copy of the relevant Minister for Rural Development, which was in Stepma. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr. Colleague. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Parliamentary, I mentioned to you before considering the substantiated requests for damages to the irrigation network. But since you mentioned electricity, I would like to inform you that a study has already been presented by the GOI Thessaly. Today we have a meeting with the Secretary General of the Ministry of Energy. And I will inform all GFCMs and TWGs next week, including Evros, of the possibility of energy communities, is so-called 'energy clearing'. They'll be briefed immediately. You're right. We have an obligation to guide and inform the TWGs and the GFCM about the legislative framework and new possibilities to save electricity. Now, as far as these projects are concerned, that is to say, the replacement and subjugation of TWO irrigation networks and the replacement and subjugation of TWO Eritrean irrigation networks, we know that from 23 April the measure for public works has already started. These projects have already been proposed by our service, as others have been proposed. I would remind you that the region of eastern Macedonia and Thrace has already submitted a comprehensive proposal for projects in the Prefecture of Evros, which includes both specific projects. The department of the Ministry of Rural Development is the potential beneficiary and will propose these specific projects that you refer to in your current question. The time limit for submission of proposals shall be 30 August. Then, Mr Papoutsis, I would like to inform you, in order to inform the people who are responsible for the Evros Prefecture, that the evaluation of all these projects will be carried out from September onwards. The final inclusion of the proposed investments is the Service for the Implementation of the Rural Development Programme, which will carry out a comparative assessment of all the proposals that will be submitted and by the end of the year. Therefore, in conclusion, the two projects you refer to in your timely question will be proposed by the Office of the Ministry of Rural Development as a potential beneficiary. By 30 August, the project deadline of the measure concerned. As of 1 September, the evaluation will begin to be carried out in order to be included in the Rural Development Programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the fifth under number 1818-18-6-2018 is a topical question from the Member of the Lesvos Parliamentary Party of Greece Mr Stavros Tassos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Taking all the necessary measures to protect against the grave of olive production in Lesvos". Mr. Red will answer. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the problem is very specific and I want an immediate and concrete answer. Of course, there will also be the more general problems that always exist in these cases. The specific, immediate problem is that this year's olive oil production in Lesvos is in direct danger, due to the further reduction of EUR 100,000 of the already extremely reduced budget allocated to the Lesvos Dactice by the Ministry of Rural Development and Food and the barren invitation to tender, since the only candidate for the contractor has submitted an increased offer of EUR 50,000 from the tendering budget. It is enough to recall that by 2009, the budget for the murder in Lesvos was about three times that, up to four times, by the present one. I shall refer to specific numbers in my dentistry. We also note that the region refuses, and because of the low budget, to carry out the homicide of its services, as was the case until 2011, and assigns it to contractors. Since, according to the relevant service of the Northern Aegean Region, we have twenty-five days early fruitage this year, and therefore the first and decisive spraying had to start these days in order to protect the olivefruit from the tomato, which, as the tomato traps show, is at least an increase of at least EUR 50,000, so that the first spray can immediately begin. So we ask you, Minister, whether you will immediately increase the budget by at least EUR 50 000 for the protection of olive oil production in Lesvos, which is a basic source of income for its inhabitants.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Papoutsis, olive oil is one of the most important crops in our country and the Ministry of Rural Development considers it to be very important. It is indicative - it is not your timely question - that, since September, our country will be able to produce certified propagating material in the ten main Greek olive varieties, and we are now importing certified propagating material from abroad into the ten main Greek varieties. As regards the tacosy under the well-known 'KALIKRATI' Act, Law 3852/2010, the responsibility for implementing the programme lies with the DAGs, with the Local Departments of Agricultural Economy and Veterinary Offices of each Regional Unit. In other words, the coordination, supervision and control of compulsory programmes, such as the fight against forests, the procedures for the promotion of spray contractors and the timely start of sprays, are the responsibility of the AOCs of regional units. The budget of the programme is the sole responsibility of the Ministry of Interior. The allocation of appropriations for 2018 was made by the Ministry of Interior and the Regional Unit of Lesvos, the amount of EUR 1.520,000 was allocated. Comparatively I mention that 2015 was EUR 1,429 000 for the tactics in the Lesvos Regional Unit, 2016 was EUR 1,517000 and 2018 was EUR 1,520,000. The budget for the lawfulness of the Lesvos Regional Unit has therefore remained stable. Moreover, twenty days ago, a mandate was issued on 30-5-2018 that in the Regional Unit of Lesvos the sum of 435,000 euros was paid, Mr. MEP, in order to start the work of the 2018 tactical programme. What is the result of all this? The study and diligence of the Ministry of Rural Development in order to be consistent in the implementation of the task force. I repeat that this financial order concerns only the Lesbos Regional Unit for the Tacis in 2018, twenty-two days ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Tassos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u32	Minister, it really seems to be a problem. The data I have and come from the North Aegean Regional Unit is that this year's funding was about 1.050,000 euros. He had a further reduction of 100 thousand compared to last year, which was 1,150,000 euros. It is a fact that the financing of the tacosy has been constantly decreasing since 2009. In 2009, the amount allocated to the murder in Lesvos was EUR 4 million, in 2013 it was EUR 1,600 000, in 2017, according to the data we have from the Northern Aegean Region, EUR 1,150,000 and this year it is EUR 1,050,000. That's why the contractor asks for an extra 50 thousand, because with those sums he can't get out. Of course, this is where it is worth pointing out that since 2011, the region has transferred the law to contractors, because until 2011 the regional authorities themselves made it. But with staff and budget cuts she has been transferred to contractors. It is worth noting that technical equipment to make the tacosy is provided free of charge by the region to contractors. This, of course, is not an excuse for the region, because it could even be under these difficult conditions for the region itself to do the homicide, because at least it would be missing the profit of the contractor and, furthermore, the region would use the equipment it owns to make the homicide. What is the conclusion of all this? The conclusion of this is that the government, in full implementation of the common agricultural policy, which is of course in the interests of large capital. It is clear that you want to eliminate the small and medium-sized producers and concentrate production in the hands of a handful of businessmen. We say, therefore, that in order for the small producer to be able to have an income that allows him to have a decent life, but also the consumer and, in general, the society to meet its nutritional needs, this cannot be done with a rationalisation of profits and a production that is in the hands of a handful of big businessmen who only care about their profits. However, we want some measures to be taken immediately. And one of these is what we told you before: Take all the necessary steps to get the homicide started immediately. Immediately the homicide starts, because so far it hasn't begun. And it's already too late, because this year, because early fruitfulness, the problem is more intense. We therefore want a concrete response to this specific request that we put to you. What are you going to do, so the homicide starts immediately?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u33	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u34	Mr Papoutsis, in your dentext, in which you have made some legitimate complaints about the region, there is something that you yourself said about, that the region is in line with the contractor's commitment to when the homicide is going to begin. So on the one hand we have the periphery and, on the other, the contractor. You said yourself that in 2008 it was EUR 900 000, in 2010 it was EUR 1 million and that the funds for the homicide were the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u35	No, I said they're down.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u36	In 2015 it was 1,429,000 euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u37	I told you that 2017 was 1.150,000 euros and 2018 was 1.050 euros. It was reduced by 100 thousand.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u38	You probably don't understand that the coroner's murder is being implemented by the DAG, Mr. Congressman. Repeat, the DAG is a contract. The region contributes, on the one hand, to the contractor and, on the other, to the contractor. In this contract you tell me to tell you, as the State Secretary for Rural Development, when the contracting party will carry out its obligation under the law when the counterparty is the region and is not the Ministry of Rural Development. That's the first. Secondly, is the overall budget drawn up by the Ministry of the Interior on whose proposal, Mr Papoutsis? On a proposal from the Committee of the Regions, the region. The Ministry of Rural Development, as I told you, twenty-two days ago, sent an extra financial warrant to the Lesvos Regional Unit alone, EUR 435 000 to start a homicide. Now if there is one delay, if there is anything in the contract with the contractor, I cannot know that at this time. As Ministry of Rural Development we told you, on the one hand, that the competitions should become timely and, on the other hand, I mentioned to you before, the olive tree is one of the most important crops and our country will produce certified, Mr.Poland, Greek multiplier material from September in the ten main Greek varieties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Minister. We will continue with the ninth with the ninth number 1698/24-2018 topical question of the second-round question of the First Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of the Interior, on "Three problems of the operation of ELAS in Dodecanese, within the tourist season". The Minister for the Interior will answer Mr. Nikolaos Toskas. Mr. Kremastein, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u40	Mr President, Minister, this is the second topical question I put to the House. This is because there is a very unpleasant problem, when you see on the headlines of local newspapers - and for the Minutes of this House, a front page of "Dimoratica" - that there is an existential problem in the Rhodes ELOS. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Dimitrios Kremastinos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] What does that mean? It means that when the illegals see this headline, you realize they feel free to move. In other words, for the front page I could ask a question to express my concern about this whole story. Of course, I understand that there are economic problems, there are problems in serving the services. I understand all that. There is, however, a great 'but'. And the Constitution says that legislation in general should be different for island policy and, of course, what the Constitution says should be applied in practice too. I mean, what do I mean? Others are the obligations of a certain prefecture of Greece and others are a county that has twelve large islands and has two major international airports. They are therefore protesting and say that they cannot keep airports, because the cadets who go down cannot offer weekends services at airports. Consequently, the number of flights coming this weekend is the main number of flights per week. Then they protest because they say they are waiting for their passports to be validated in Symi, for example, three hours, so that yachts and tourism will somehow not be supported. And we need tourism, we mustn't kick out the yachts. With all this and others that I could develop for a long time, for example, that they have no money to pay for the catering that makes the transfers of these illegals arrested by the police or do not have to pay the gasoline for the police vehicles, a climate of evil is created. And of course, I repeat, I come to the main question when you tell me that this is the policy we can do throughout the country. I would like to say that island policy must be prioritised for all these reasons. And the main part of my question is this: what priority will you give or give to the island side in relation to the rest of the country for the specificities I have developed, which exist and not because I am a Member of the Dodecanese and want to appear in Parliament and defend the right of the region, but I think that I am defending tourism in general and the application of the constitutional requirement?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr. Cream. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kremastine, you are right to present the problems of the island regions and especially of the Dodecanese region, which is one of the main reception areas of the major tourist streams, which come to our country to enjoy also the nice areas, but also to leave their money here. But there are problems, there are needs. I wish we could strengthen these areas with a much larger number of police personnel. I'll report you some numbers. At the Airport Department of Rhodes there are thirty policemen against thirty-four organic posts. In Kos there are nineteen against twenty-four. In Karpathos there are eighteen against twenty-three. Special attention has been paid to the tourist season, in particular to the control of passports and the service of tourists to come to these areas and to airports a number of police essays and will come within the days and a larger number. There are problems in some areas, which are specific, such as the Synod you mentioned and which I myself have visited, and I have seen the problems relating to the procedures imposed by the European Union for citizens of third countries. I am referring above all to tourists who come from Turkey and who, despite the goodwill and most of the hours of their hours, who are employed by the police there, can no longer be satisfied, because this will be a violation of the European Union's procedures. There are, therefore, such problems, but over the days there will be a greater number of police officers tested. They are not the experienced policemen, who do any work, but the work that concerns inspections at airports and ports can be done. That is how we believe that the situation will improve.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Kremastein, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u44	I am pleased with what I hear, but I would like, Minister, if you can tell us specifically and give us a chart of how this story will be differentiated in figures, for example, that in Central Greece these apply to the Dodecanese and the regions concerned. I would like the priority to be expressed in figures, because the problems you know and I know them, and I do not insist on them. But I insist on priority, because from that point on, you cannot do anything as Minister. But you can make an effort. I mean, in the Dodecanese, that's the number, that's the number. Among us there is also a comment that I do not take cash, because it is a trade union comment that other regions have a better deal with the number of members of the European Parliament. they're serving. I am not talking about that. You know that better than I do. I would, however, like to hear that these areas will be premiumed for these reasons, especially tourists, who serve the image of tourism throughout the country, because when the other guy goes with the yacht to bring his money and waits three hours - from what they say - to seal his passport, you realize that he leaves the port and goes somewhere else, he goes to the opposite Turkish authority and is berthed. So these are problems which are practical. It's not problems theoretically, just to say something more. I want you to see them with this spirit and give us a concrete answer on this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u45	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u46	In that sense, we are dealing with the problems. We do not share with the same number the power of police in all parts of the country. We distribute it precisely according to the needs and specificities of each region. However, some who compare, apparently, want more police officers and that is legitimate. One cannot compare, for example, Lesvos with Rhodes, where there are known problems of immigration. In other words, every region has its own peculiarities. This information is at your disposal, of course. Nevertheless, in the next few days, as I have told you, a large number of police officers will be sent to facilitate tourist currents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Next, the tenth under number 1715/29-5-2018, topical question by MP II Athens of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis, on the subject: "Prevention measures to prevent forest fires and address their consequences in the light of the new anti-nuclear period". Mr Kattotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Of course you did not say about the questions that will not be asked today, Mr President, and I am taking the opportunity to say something about my question to the Ministry of Labour, which will not be done because Mrs Ahtsoglou has not come. I think it is very important that her absence is very important and I think it is appropriate. I would like to denounce this today on the basis of the question I ask the Minister for the Interior on what you mentioned earlier. It is advisable to abstain from today's debate. I told her, I told her to her partners, and I denounce it, because she can't do that all the time. Mr President, I now come to the question we are discussing. Minister, the question is, what measures will you take as a government to restore the risks of fires in this year's anti-nuclear period and, more generally, to shield the country's fires. It is known that if we coexist with a number of aggravating factors, such as drought, high temperatures, strong winds, then our forest wealth and the property of our people will be at stake this year. So we are very concerned and expressed this concern through and through a conference that we held. I imagine that you have taken its materials, because important people with great experience have submitted their views and we believe that these views too could help if there is indeed the political will to take all those preventive measures to avoid disasters this year. Our agony is well founded, and if we see the recent major fires in Elias and Naxos, this concern is confirmed. However, it goes on to say, Minister, from the results of the dangerous policy which has been in place as a whole since 1998, where this strategic design of fire protection in our country began to be degraded, in the interests of business interests. The government today says it's a better situation. But if we consider how fire protection has evolved over this three-year period, we will see that forest land has continued to be destroyed, quite large in relation to the previous years, and, of course, we can say that the cut-cut budgets, if you like, reflect the size of the forest problem at this time. The fact is that the average of expenditure on the Fire Corps was reduced in 1915, '16, '17 and '18 by the current government much more than was in 2009. As a result, we have no preventive measures, such as forest roads, anti-military zones, water tanks, and so there is a difficulty in the functioning of the Firehouse with regard to the repressive sector, as you have recently said in committee, with a fleet of fire-fighting vehicles that is over 55% more than 20 years old. So, in view of all this, and the reduced staff and what we have discussed here on several occasions, Minister, in relation to the central planning, which is necessary rather than the dissemination - if you like - of fire protection in municipalities, regions and other bodies, there must be a central planning, which must be implemented with all these preventive measures in order to really have protection of the forests and property of our people. That is what we would like to see your position on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Nikolaos Toskas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u50	Mr President, Mr Katsotis, I am pleased that there are questions on key issues such as civil protection and the preservation of our natural wealth, and that is a serious question. Let's get two things straight. Responsibilities for the repression of fires belong to the Fire Corps. Prevention of the competence of forestry services. As regards last year's fires, which you said, which some channels were over-protected and were given the impression that the country was destroyed, there were many fires in number, but the number of burnt areas - about thirty-three thousand acres - were one of the fewest in the last decade. What does that mean? A lot of fires, fewer burnt-out areas. We'll never be happy, even though it burns only one acre. But what does that mean? It means the Fire Corps is doing its job extremely well and has little time for intervention. Now, what's happened? And if you want, what has happened over the last two or three years on civil protection? Because we believe that important steps have been taken both in rationalisation and in better organisation and in better education and in the assembly - the maintenance of technical means, which, unfortunately, are old - mainly on aircraft - but have never been systematically maintained. You know, most of it's '74s and the 'newest' is 2000-2001. What did we do on these issues? Legislative initiatives were first taken with the renewal of the mandate of a thousand five hundred seasonal fire extinguishers and, indeed, for a longer period, not for five months, as has been the case so far, but for six months. The process of joining the permanent staff of two thousand and sixty-fifths of a five-year obligation was completed, although some people said that this would not be done and even though some had forgotten them and had not been counted on the staff, which was to be permanentized. The new firefighters, the new officers, and the officers began to enter the Fire Academy with a pan-Hellenic exam. With regard to air-fighting, for the first time they were sent for repair in America and in European countries engines of CL215 and CL415 aircraft, so we have better availability. The PZL aircraft, which are for immediate intervention, were maintained with money, let me say, given in the first half of 2015 when I was State Secretary for National Defence. They started using means that were not used, even though we had them. I am referring to the military helicopters - the Sunukes - and the fire-fighting helicopters, which, until three years ago, only made VIP flights and have now been trained, maintained and used extensively for fire-fighting. They're five firefighting helicopters and we've also had the police helicopters supervised since this year. In other words, serious steps have also been taken in the field of education. Cooperation has been made with foreign countries, foreign firefighters will come this summer and our people will go to France and California to see how the fires go out there too. There have been serious steps and there has been an impetus on the issues of dealing with fires. I think we're in pretty good shape. There is always room for improvement and special proposals will always be needed to promote these issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Minister. Mr Kattotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u52	Minister, we don't worry that way. We have taken into account what these preventive projects are, so that there is a great deal of protection in our forest wealth. And as has been said very well in committee, EUR 1 for prevention is EUR 7 for repression. That is how you have measured the extent to which prevention itself contributes to spending. The questions we asked - if there were forest roads, if there were any fire-fighting zones, if the water tanks are in such a situation - were not answered by you either now or by the committee by the Secretary-General as well as by the Chief of the Firehouse. You said about the legislative framework you have done and the staff you have taken. But, Minister, you did not accept the amendment that we tabled, which, if you wish, dealt with the question of all these workers in the firefighting industry, the three and four forms of employment that are currently in existence, with great experience and many years of work, where we solved it through the proposal we made to be employed in civil protection. But this year, you received a budget for the recruitment of five thousand sixty people in public programmes for civil protection. So there is a need - you also confirm it - for this move that you have made so many people hired for civil protection. So you could accept this proposal that we have made and solved the issue of seasonals, which are resurrected, which are only for this year, are forbidden to continue with contracts, and also five-year contracts, which are considered not to have the criteria for being permanent in the body. All of these could therefore be absorbed and addressed with the problem of the forms of employment that exist in the body itself. You said, too, that there are developments and you've already supplied planes, the spare parts have come, repaired, etc. But, Minister, you have just received from donor materials necessary for fire extinguishing, such as a cruise for the helicopter, which - if they were - in Laconia, for example, would have saved the burning of such a large extent in the forests. So these are things that contribute to prevention. And because the budget, precisely, is reduced, it is not possible to do all that is needed and necessary to make this important prevention and preparation so that we can say that the Fire Corps today is capable and has all these materials to deal with any fire. There are serious staff issues, which we have also raised in committee, Minister, but time here is very little. We asked a lot of questions, but we did not get any answers for their hours, for example. The other cannot, when he is seventy and eighty hours in the fire continuously, yield. He can't do anything. So it can't be without hours, Minister. They can't have any uniforms. They're ruined. You said it was accurate to do 2,000 euros - you said it or the Secretary of Protection - the uniform for each firefighter. Yeah, but if it doesn't have a uniform, how will it happen? She's ruined. These are preventive measures too. It must have the necessary means for the firefighter himself to fall like a hero - as we say - into the fire and save the forest wealth and the property of our own people. She can't go home at night. We can't have any deaths or injuries. So all this is necessary. And there must be a very good planning and a political will to provide the necessary amount, such a funding, so that there is indeed a preparation to deal with any situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u54	Mr. Katsotis, so much more is needed for the Fire Corps. I will agree that in the coming years special efforts and more money must be given to meet the needs of the Fire Corps, because climate conditions are, in fact, being burdened with. And now there will be problems not only with forest fires but also flooding problems, that is, problems due to climate conditions throughout the year. And that's not just true for our country. It's true for the whole world. This year the Ministry of Interior received 18,400,000 euros to municipalities and OTA organisations to cover fire protection actions. What we said before was given. Your proposals concerning the bill were in the right direction, but they were unsatisfactory. If you ask me, if you need more staff during both winter and especially the spring season to clean up the various forest areas, I will tell you yes. That's why we increased the recruitment time for seasonal fire extinguishers this year from five to six months. I wish there was the economic possibility of having a powerful, stronger civil protection mechanism for the Fire Corps. But there are problems. You see what happened in the past few years. We had helicopters and they weren't used. We had helicopters and they were used for VIP flights. Report the buckets. We did get cans through sponsorships. They had bins to pick up since 1990. The cans were rotten and we were running to find them. We found out, and we're ready. He needs a time-consuming effort. We are doing what we need to do with the not too much money we have and with the staff we have. And I believe that the staff of the Fire Corps are making superhuman efforts, but we too have to go into details, such as pipes and bins, which - if you like - are not a minister's level, but in the face of the need and the protection of the country, everything is an obligation of the Minister. And we even enter these details to give the people of this Fire Corps all the potential or the potential to meet the needs. We are doing everything we can in difficult conditions, but believe with the Fire Corps in the last two years has changed completely, potential and - I would say - mentality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and were toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIA VENIZELOS", twenty-seven students and four teachers from the Hellenic Faculty of Education. Thank you, children, for visiting the Greek Parliament. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We are in a process - to know what we are doing now - parliamentary control, where various parliamentarians are asking the Minister for Civil Protection how to deal with increased fires during the summer season and the Minister is answering. Eleventh, under number 1672/21-5-2018, a topical question for the second cycle of the Member of Parliament, Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou, to the Minister of the Interior, on "Anti-nuclear preparation of the country in the light of the summer season". Mr Katsafandos has the floor for two minutes for his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u56	Thank you very much, Mr President. Indeed, Minister, while you said your delight when your fellow Member of the Communist Party tabled this question and said that these are useful questions to be discussed, I cannot understand why they are being debated at such a late stage. And if we are to discuss the design of the end of June, I think we are a long way from reality. My question therefore, on the occasion of the fires that occurred in the Peloponnese at the beginning of spring, but also on the occasion of the whole process that we have experienced. Because I experienced the catastrophic fires both in Laconia Prefecture and in Mani last summer and in Kythera, which is an island in my constituency. I didn't experience the great fire of the Calamus. And indeed, Minister, I can't understand while you're happy to ask these questions because you're not coming to answer them. Of course you are accusing the media, the bodies and the citizens who have been irritated by this incompetence in the management of firefighting in last year's fire-fighting phenomena. You, however, were, Minister, who said about the inefficiency of the Fire Corps. Your statements were last summer. Of course within nine months you tell us that the Fire Force now has its capabilities and its executives are capable of dealing with all these fires. You, when we were telling you about the deficit and about last year's operational deputy, which you had appointed, Minister, and we were talking about the inability and that it was due to the lack of management and proper organisation, then you said that it was not the case, but, of course, after you destabilized him. So I have asked you this question and I ask you to answer me, Minister, in relation to everything you said in the previous position. What's the status in flight means with numbers and numbers? How many planes are flying now, how many helicopters are flying now? What is the situation in the marine media? How many operative vehicles can they operate in the fire department? And what about the inspiring potential? But I would like to ask you not to say what the previous people have done. Tell us numbers right now, what's the operational capacity of the fire department?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u58	Mr Katzafadou, we did not expect your question or others to start preparing for this year's anti-nuclear period. Preparing this year's anti-nuclear period has begun after the end of last summer, because otherwise we would have had nothing to do with it. And you know what? Do you know what was the main obstacle to this year's preparation for the anti-nuclear period? Do you know that the years 2012, 2013,2014 did not pay the helicopters that were hired and come? And you know that - logically I would say - the international service to which the contest was awarded says to us: 'Do you know if the previous ones are not paid, how will I give you?' I'm talking about 8 million. That is, this year, that is, we ran with the little money we have, to deal with situations that we found. And of course I will say what the situation was before. And of course I'll tell you about the barrels that had never been taken. Of course, I will say about the situation in which the staff were treated, where there were too many categories of staff left to their fate, and in particular the five-year firefighters who waited for permanentisation without the Ministry of Reform having anticipated the number of permanent posts. So we've done everything we can. And you know what? If you want me to renew the 1974 aircraft, I'm sorry, but I don't have that magical abilities, and I don't think anyone has it. What can this government do, with the money that the Prime Minister gave in addition to his own intervention? To maintain aircraft engines so that they can have as best flight availability as possible. We can improve the legislative framework so that it is not a hundred categories of people, but as far as we can reduce the various distortions. We must also mention the problems here. I mentioned the problems last year and I will now mention them. This is how it goes by mentioning negative and positive. So we do what we can and even the Minister intervenes in more detail than his responsibilities, so that there can be quick solutions. I wish this was done on a continuous basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Katasfadou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u60	Numbers I didn't hear, Minister. And because I didn't hear any numbers, I'd like you to tell you some numbers, and I want you to confirm them or deny them to me. At the moment, Minister, in operational preparedness - typically operational preparedness and you will understand what I want to say - there are five Canadter aircraft. I am tabling your statement in the minutes, in which April at the most, the twelve engines and the ten million euros that the Prime Minister said after the fire in Kalamatos would be ready for the pilots. Five! [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Katsafandos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Specifically yesterday, one could fly. I say that to be precise and to speak with numbers. So what it's about is the aircraft you said you gave the 10 million, we'll probably use them for the next anti-nuclear period. There's nothing on it. Secondly, you spoke of the National Civil Protection Centre in Ptolemais. It was your announcement. You're the ones who took care of it. Is there? Is something wrong? My information tells me that nothing has happened, there's no this center. It was your initiative, you spoke, there was interest from the French, there was interest from other countries. Is there? There isn't. Thirdly, you talked about the helicopters that some have been walking, as you say, for VIP. So the Fire Corps has five private helicopters. How much is in operational readiness? Three!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u61	Three?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u62	Three, of course, Minister, because there are no pilots. Are there pilots?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u63	You'll come now and we'll go...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u64	Are there pilots? If there are pilots, Minister, why now the Fire Corps has ten pilots, tell me how all five can be operationally ready twenty-four hours a day with ten pilots? Haven't you made a contest to get three private pilots to be able? So he's not in operational readiness. You yourself admit it. They may be able to fly, they don't have the strains to be able to fly. Why did you take the competition out for the three pilots now and you didn't take it out before, so that they could be operationally ready for all five and not say that some are taking them out to ride? I do not know if their utility is so important to meet the needs of the fire department and especially in such a national critical period. Of course there are three Sinooks at the disposal of the Fire Corps, but so far they have not been used. We told you to be able to build a center, to have a helicopter in Kythera, so there could be a coordination in the southern Peloponnese. My information again tells me that - and we expect to see the price for the rentals in the middle and large helicopters, because yesterday they say that the signature has been signed - you will do so in Kalamata. It is welcome, but see if the design can cover the entire southern Peloponnese. Also, Minister, everything that has to do with the vehicles. Approximately 30% of the fire extinguisher vehicles are out of operation. There was in 2014 by the Fire Service in cooperation with the thirteen regions of the country within the framework of the ESDP 2014-2020 a programme for the implementation of the procurement of fire-fighting vehicles. There are huge delays. It's almost nothing. For example, what matters to the figures - and give me some time, please, Mr President - for these long-standing Kytheras. At Kythera there are currently two of the seven outdated vehicles over the twenty - five years old. Some time ago signs were given to another vehicle of a forest service twenty-five years ago. The Minister will be here, or I will inform him, and he will tell us that four other vehicles have been repaired. To understand the tragedy and how these vehicles are repaired and what operational capabilities they have, of the four vehicles repaired for the Cythera Firehouse, the two stayed on the road, could not reach Kythera. Minister, one of the four repaired, the two could not reach Kythira. In what has to do with the inspiring potential, it was the highest officers who had spoken and said that the operational planning is poor and they were punished. You have honoured, Minister, those who said that there is a planning problem and that we should sit down and see it again. What it has to do with seasonal firefighters, thank God it was the "FRAPORT" and you understand what I want to say. If it was not intended to move firefighters to cover the gaps in the airports ‘FRAPORT’, seasonal firefighters would not take them at the end of April. So what I told you is very serious. I spoke to you with numbers, I talked to you with numbers, Minister, not what helicopters do and what journeys there are. Right now how many Canander can fly? How many helicopters are there? When will you get these three private pilots? What about the vehicles? What about the marine means, which have no certification and have not been passed by any classification societies? The station in Kavala is not working. These are serious issues that I mentioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u66	Mr Katzafadou, you could ask a simpler question: "Why are forests burning, why do they catch fires?" Because here, where you owe us, you also ask for the ox! You've never taken in the past few years pilots for helicopters. You didn't even use them. You tell me that pilots do not get there and when we have had a competition, you say: 'Why is the competition delayed?' Hey, these questions are hypocritical! Also, are you using numbers of fire-fighting vehicles, which are old, unused and are there to retire at various stations and you say, "Ma, why are they broken?" At the time of the thick cows you didn't get a single air-fighting aircraft, then where were the production lines, why now and have the money, are there not and ask 'why are the planes spoiling?'
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u67	How much they fly, we ask.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u68	I'll tell you how much they're flying because there's a constant effort from the Air Force. You know, I'm not an aircraft engineer, I'm not part of the Civilian Ministry, but I'm gonna answer you, because every day I'm watching this thing, and I'm probably more anxious. I'll answer for the Cythera after you try to make them a symbol. Right now, as far as I know, they have to fly five aircraft - from yesterday's information I had - three CL 415 in Thessaloniki and two CL 215 here. Of the twelve engines, the eight of America have come. You didn't send anyone, and you ask why the engines were delayed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u69	Do they fly the planes, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u70	Yeah, yeah. Why don't they catch fires and why we didn't use the Cinooks, you're asking us. But since they didn't catch fires, how can we use them? Look, either we talk rationally or we talk absurdly. Because if you ask why the Sinooks didn't fly the moment they didn't have to use, I think we're going in the frame of irrationality.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u71	That's not what I told you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u72	And for Kythera, ask your friend the mayor who asked for twenty-five heavy-duty helicopters last year and there are twenty-three all over the world.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Minister. The twelfth is followed by the twelfth under number 1673/21-5-2018, a topical question by MP Achaias Mr. Andreas Katsaniotis, Minister for the Interior, on the subject: "Problems in the Roma camp of Patras". Mr Katsaniotis has the floor to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr President. I was surprised to have been informed by the Minister's office last year that this question will be discussed. You know, on the occasion of this question, Mr President, it was the arrest of Zafiropoulou's killer at the Roma camp in Riganokabo. Since then, I have been trying to get the Minister here and answer that question, but the Minister isn't coming. Minister, this offends us and with us it offends the people who have sent us here. And here we have been sent to check on you. This question remains timely because of the impotence of the government. I guess, Minister, you have other jobs. I guess, Minister, you're dealing with the ideological baby, Ruvikon, who's squeezing and going to be a hosting team at Mr. Koufantina's Koufontina, terrorist-killer. But let's get back to the point. The Riganokambos camp is an outbreak of permanent intrusion. Every year hundreds of incidents are recorded in the police briefing. At the same time, yesterday we had a fire next to the camp, a fire from the ones that explode very often around the camp. The police paper is full of drug trafficking, violations of the law, and is being developed within the camp. There are many complaints from around the camp. The problem is not only a safety problem, but it is also a quality of life problem. Quality of life for the inhabitants, who really don't live safe, but also for the Roma, who really, a lot of them want to join society, want to have a better quality of life than they and their children. The problem, Minister, is what will be the Ministry's actions from now on so that we do not have a new unbaptised one. There have been many years of this situation. In recent years, he's been out of control. An entire region of the city is hostage to lawlessness and, unfortunately, despite the superhuman efforts of the police in the region, which we do not forget until recently had another huge issue to deal with, the issue of immigrants, they cannot achieve anything. Is the political will on your part? Is there a plan to see what is going to happen with the illegality and infringibility of the Ryganokampos Roma camp? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u76	Mr President, Mr Katsaniotis, would you like a quick answer on a police case, the arrest of Michael Zafiropoulou's killer, which was made in record time by the Greek Police? I think that they have all accepted that. So you are complaining, why no response was given to a police matter which was dealt with in a rapid manner.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u77	That wasn't my question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u78	I now come as far as the Riganokambos region of Patras is concerned. I'll let you know he's policeed by patrols from the 3rd Police Department of Patras, DIA patrols, the Direct Action Division, the OPEC and the Patras Security Subcommittee. Three scheduled expeditions have taken place this year in the region, where a total of twenty-four people were brought to the police department in the region. More specifically, from the comparative study of crime data in recent years we have seen a decrease in theft - burglaries in 2017 compared to 2016, as in the case of drugs. Also, in the current four months compared to the corresponding period of 2017, a significant reduction was recorded in the robbery of minus 29% and in the cases of breach of the laws on addictive substances minus 15%, thus demonstrating in practice the effectiveness of the policy followed, as well as the systematic action of police forces. I am not saying that there are no problems in the region, as in several other areas. But there is a systematic response from the police and there are results. They continue and there are problems, which we will then see how we can deal with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u80	Minister, you either didn't understand what I told you or answered something else. What I told you is that the reason for the question was the arrest of Michael Zafiropoulou's killer at the Roma camp in Riganokampos. So the direct connection of crime to the camp was the reason for the question. If you were a local resident, Minister, and you knew that next to your house a criminal had found shelter, how would you feel? Would you feel safe? As Minister, one year, couldn't you tell these people a parliamentary question, that something will happen, that you're planning to do something? Do you know how many huts there are in the camp, Minister? Do you know how many complaints about new huts made over the last two, three years? Can I talk to you? Nothing's happened. Have new huts been made? Yeah. Do we know how many people are in the area, how many come in, how many are multiplying and how many are staying during the summer? Oh, no. Is there a control plan? Indeed, what we are calling for, Mr Minister, is that the inhabitants of the regions should not be taken hostage to their homes and the Roma really be able to join and have a better quality of life. What you have said does not actually solve the problem, as no other problem has been solved. It is characteristic that you can say what you want, but the citizen lives in insecurity. The citizen knows that you cannot create him the most important asset of democracy and freedom that is his security, security of his own, the safety of his own property. I ask again: is there any plan, Minister, an operational plan, for the Roma camp in the Riganokambos of Patras, yes or no? If it doesn't exist, we'll keep going on with it. In other words, we're going to do some patrols and tell us the statistics show us that things are going better. And the residents will continue to be hostages. And the Roma will continue to be hostage circuits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u81	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u82	Mr Katsaniotis, have so many actions been taken to deal with the problem during your own governance and you want to say that all this has been created in recent years? I would like to repeat this: we did not expect any proposals to take action. We made three trips during this year with twenty - four incubations. And we'll keep going. There is something else that you know, and we all know it: the subject of the camps is not just a police matter and it is not just a crackdown. It concerns many areas in which we all have to go and see the real problems, as do the inhabitants of these camps. And on that, I'll agree with you. This is therefore an issue that needs to be addressed over time. It hadn't happened before. We barely accumulated a number of people in these camps throughout the country over the past decades, without any control, and the change in lifestyle without schools and the change in the pattern of work-free activity. Now, then, we have to deal with this in a police way. It is not easy to solve these problems. We're trying. Immediately afterwards, I have a meeting with Theanos Fotio just to discuss these issues. We are doing everything we can for a difficult problem that has accumulated over many decades. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Minister. We will now discuss the thirteenth third under number 1609/7-5-2018 a timely question from the New Democracy MP, Maximos Charakopoulos, on the subject: "Let us protest and despair residents of Exarches". Mr Colleague, you have the floor for the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, welcome to the House after seven weeks. We thought you had allergy to parliamentary control. Parliamentary control, however, is not par excellence. It is your duty to come and apologize to the National Representation for your works and days, no matter how unpleasant this may be to you. You are rightly avoiding the House, as the outbreak of crime occurs in a pale heel of your government. Crime, literally, in every corner of the country hits red. The islands of lawlessness are expanding and expanding. Three and a half years now, with questions and interventions, we urge you to take measures to restore legality in the center of Athens. We insist that the law be applied everywhere, with no exceptions. We note that the state has withdrawn its jurisdiction from the centre of the capital. What did you, of course, do? You tried to despise our criticism. You've been telling us fearful, you're telling us we're investing in fear, that we're creating impressions. And the letter comes in, the complaint of four hundred inhabitants of the Exarchates. Did you see the letter, Minister? Here's the letter. I'm tabling it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Maximos Charakopoulos, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] People have literally lost their sleep. They fear for their lives. Whatever crime of the Common Criminal Law exists, they denounce that it is taking place in Exarcheia. Murders, robberies, thefts, drug trade, smuggling cigarettes, arson in shops, supermarkets, houses, gang action, attacks with molotovs, vandalism in multi-houses, public and private buildings, prostitution, protection in shops, use of drugs in squares and entrances of apartments, toxic fumes from burnt bins, uncontrolled action by Greeks and foreigners, who declare solidarity and act as conquerors of the region. In addition, they denounce that the State is leaving the area. OTE, the National Bank, the ELTA, and the private banks have abandoned the Exarcheia. The buses are changing, while in Patisia there is a paradox of fire. At the same time, the "KEP of the anarchists" lives and reigns in the Square of Exarches, and you are flouting with the Mayor of Athens about who has the responsibility to remove it. In fact, the state is being ridiculed. Exarcheia have become a pole of attraction to the "International of the Bahalakidians", which come and parade with kalashnikov in the square of the Exarchies. Police forces stationed at the Polytechnic and Charilaos Trikoupis denounce that they are becoming living targets and, furthermore, that they are not allowed to enter the unbaptised of the Excavations. What are you doing for all this, Minister? In addition to your statements "no one can do what he sleeps when criminals enter his house", all you did was dismantle the Delta Team, the Rapid Intervention Cycling Team. Why? Because you've been charged by SYRIZA's youth. And you have speeded up obeying, so that your own children, in professedly the Vice-President of the Government, will not be displeased. In fact, you called the DELTA team policemen as 'forgets'. For the Ruviks, of course, you only have good words to say. So we even came to read about the installation of jihadi nuclei, acting in Exarchia. Minister, the police have shown that they have the ability and professional capacity to carry out their mission successfully, as long as they do not obstruct their action. I do not know if you share the view that Exarchia is a kind of galaxy village that your Government presents as a tourist product, calling tourists from all over the world to come and live the experience of lawlessness in our country. But it can't be our vision of the historic center of Athens. Our commitment is the restoration of law and order everywhere. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u85	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u86	Mr President, I am going to speak again with numbers and say that the figures do not matter and that there are specific incidents. Over the period 2015-2016, serious crime reaches 30% and micro-crime 70%, while the rate in the two years 2013-2014 was reversed. The arrests in the region of Exarchies - because that is where Mr Charakopoulos focuses, Exarchia has made a flag, not the total picture in the country, something has to be said - has increased by 28.13% over the last three years. What does that mean? That in the past there was massive inductions, without any evidence and no arrest of course. If I discuss the individual violations of or criminal law in Exarchia, I will tell you that in the last three years, namely by comparing between 2012-2013 and 2015-2016-2016-2018 your three-year government government with three years of government - in Exarcheia, attacks against political offices and persons are less than 13%, against public objectives minus 8.5%, at the expense of stores minus 87%, at the expense of banks minus 57%. Also, arrests, as I told you, are increased by about 28%. I mean, they're arrests with evidence, not unnecessarily indulgences, just taking anyone they found in front of them. As far as the "Rubic" is concerned, which has also made a flag, we have fifty eight pleadings and a hundred and twenty-three arrests. So we have a large number of arrests and much more effective police forces, which have been allowed to do their work. What Mr Harakopoulos says has nothing to do with reality. I would not have caused him to say what the police told him when he visited the IAEA a few days ago, in order to reach agreement, because I know what they told him. There he was told that they had no problem with obstacles arising from political or physical leadership. But that's where he says other things. Another Mr. Charakopoulos there, another Mr. Charakopoulos here. With regard to the increase of patrols from the DIA Groups in the same areas - we are talking about Exarchia - only in the first few months, until May 2018, we had a thousand sixty-four patrols from the DIA Group. They are much more than they were in 2017. Thirty-eight were in 2017. And we're going on. And recently, in the past few days, you have seen the arrest of eleven people who have committed violations and have already confiscated the eight. Therefore, there is no obstacle to the police authorities. The opposite is true. The police are doing their job and will continue to do its job in an area that you created, and I would ask you not to forget that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Harakopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u88	Minister, you are three and a half years Minister. You don't have the irresponsible. Are you telling anyone when you're trying to tell us that the situation today is better than it was in 2014? Why do you do these deep dives in the past yesterday? We do not claim that the situation was ideal in the historic center of Athens or Exarchia, but it has never been in this mess, to which it has arrived with your own political choices, because you want to fondle the "Ruviks", the collectives and those you call "your own children". As to whether the police can do their job, and whether they have the free to do it, or if you put them on pretexts, I would refer you to the public statements of the police unions, Minister. Obviously, people's protests do not touch you. Yesterday, there was a letter from the storekeepers of the historic centre to the Chief of Greek Police, a letter indeed, a cry of agony. They denounce drug trafficking and trafficking in the center of the capital day - noon, robberies, thefts. These are everyday phenomena. Shoppers are afraid to talk because they're becoming a target. The residents have lost their sleep. I don't know if you sleep with your conscience in peace, as your former colleague Mr. Paradise said. To some extent, Minister, you have my understanding, because in fact, the co-legislative ministers are blocking the work of the police. The Gavroglou law restored the asylum of lawlessness to universities. The "bugs" who strike, flee to the university, where they have, of course, asylum, where the police cannot enter to arrest these offenses. By the Law of Friday, thousands of criminals have left prisons and again contribute to the uprooting, recycling of crime. How many times did a police officer arrest the same villain? But you must realise that you cannot be afflicted in this situation, which poses serious risks, as the connections between the anarchist space, the 'blacks' and terrorism are now evident. But I am afraid, with what I hear, that you are little interested in exploring the country to the international community, when you are authorizing the unrepentant "17 November", because it is a hunger strike and because the various collectives threaten the official state. So you make the impression that the state is blackmailing and retreating. And that's a wrong message. Mr President, over the past few days, I have read that the government has been disturbed by the confrontations of the coup d'état. Hey, guys! When you came along with the Golden Dawn in the square of the "extreme" you didn't have such sensations. When executives were talking about hangs and german germans, you didn't have such sensations. When your government partner summoned the people to lynching, you did not have such governmental sensitivities. We have suffered all this and personally in the presentation of my book in Larissa with your leading executives. You have excite the monster of populism, and now that it bites you, you yell. The New Democracy condemns, Mr President, absolutely every manifestation of violence. We do not put any ideological mark on violence, as the government officials have done in the past. There's no good and bad violence. Violence should be condemned completely, without asterisks and footnotes, as you have done, by legitimising such acts of violence to New Democracy officials in the past.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u90	Mr President, first of all I welcome the statements on the abduction of Mr Charakopoulos' violence. And if I combine them with yesterday's ambiguity and with a difficult interpretation of approachable statements by Mrs Spyraki about what will happen with the agreement with the neighbouring country and I'm a little confused and I don't know where this party is going. It will, of course, be appropriate for this party to take a clearer stance on the abduction of violence and on the acts, where we have seen good cooperation between officials from the Chrysayites in this particular party, because the national interest is that this agreement should go further, but also that there should be no acts of violence against those who have a different viewpoint. Going to the issues relating to the question, I would like to ask Mr Charakopoulos when, under the Government of a New Democracy, police protection of natural persons or premises has been lifted. For the first time, four hundred fifty people were removed in 2016, for the second time over eight hundred policemen left - with many reactions - from the protection of persons and spaces and went to patrol in the center of Athens or frame police stations in the area of Attica and Thessaloniki. Therefore, some don't pretend they don't know when the troubles in Exarches were created. Some who have done nothing to deal with the problems of the centre of Athens, do not now ask for the change.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u91	Now, Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u92	Please, will you let me finish? You may not have learned in a serious dialogue, but I will remind you that when the Chief of your party, Mr. Mitsotakis, was the Minister of Public Administration, six thousand organic positions were abolished in the police and the Municipal Police were abolished, also by charging the Greek Police with an additional charge. So don't pretend you don't know. Don't be surprised. You'll have to look at your back. You should look at the problems that you have loaded in the various areas of problem, where there are really problems, where in many cases people are right. We're trying to improve situations in difficult circumstances, which you did nothing about. We are at least trying throughout Greece, with problems arising from immigration, with problems arising from the economic crisis, with problems that we have inherited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Minister. Next, the fourteenth under number 1615/8-5-2018, a topical question from the Parliamentary Attica of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Paraskevi Christophilopoulou to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: “Nine tolerance of the residents of the Exarchates in the inadequacy of a dangerous situation in the region”. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. You will allow me, Mr President, to begin with one comment, because in a way, one question is the continuation of the other.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u95	Almost.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u96	You will hear in my place what's the same and what's not. The reality, of course, is not different, Mr Minister, nor is it topical. We have heard here astonishing that the government, because it turns against its officials, always condemns violence this time. We have heard that there is a certain kinship with the New Democracy and the Golden Dawn. I'm not going to comment on it. Moreover, the right-wing party on her right has the right-wing right. I also commented on the fact that there was a good coexistence in the squares of 'indignant', Mr President, of SYRIZA with the Golden Dawn. That's where no one was bothered. I therefore condemn all violence and pre-conflicts on behalf of the Change Movement at the moment, Minister, against government officials and any political area, as we condemn hatred and all. We are constantly standing on this line. But I call on the Government to join the Minister - and tell your colleague, Mr. Konstantinos, who talks about the Hitlers - if he wants to hit fascism and the Hitlers, finally to speed up the trial of the Golden Dawn. Hurry up and find a room. I shall now turn to the question. We, Minister, are not just focusing on Exarchia. I will come to Exarchia again, but before that, I would also like to remind the President that the Change Movement has tabled an overall question, because, in fact - you are right - crime exists in the small cities of our province, all over Greece. So, as a Change Movement, we had to ask this timely question and we expect the Bureau to set the day of the overall debate on the problem. But, Minister, on 8 May, I tabled this question because, for the most part on 28 April, ten days ago, there was again a known story with groups of young people, molotovs, MATs, tear gas and violence in Exarcheia. In the meantime, there has also been the letter to which Mr Harakopoulos referred. And while there were weeks in which Mr Toskas did not want to answer us - or could not - Mrs Gennimatas received a visit from the representatives of these citizens at the PASOK offices in Charilaos Trikoupi. They had a conversation with Mrs. Genomemas I was competently present with. Minister, tell me all the numbers you want. The fact that you're now on your side condemned the numbers. I don't condemn the numbers. Tell me all the numbers you want. But tell me, by hand to heart: I have heard the inhabitants say that it is no longer a question of Ruvikon, or of a messenger or anarchist theme of the Exarchies. It is a question of cruelty - there is also little infraction and little crime - infraction. There are tough groups of criminals, mafias, organized crime. Call it whatever you want. The residents are experiencing it. They experience fear in their everyday lives. We talked to representatives of shopkeepers, pharmacists, in a series of representatives of this group of residents, who exposed us their everyday lives, which, incidentally, is also our daily life in the area where too many people work at the PASOK offices. I therefore ask you, in particular, about the unbaptised Exarchates and, of course, about the unbaptiseds of West Attica. We've been through this before, and I'll see you around. What's the plan, Minister? Because I accept that you wanted - and that's a good intention - to get police officers back to them. You know, however, very well - and don't tell me that you don't know and I want your opinion on this - that not only is it not enough, but that various different means go in and go back - or not? - and then you run and you chase them back to go. I am not saying, then, that we should never try to make any effort, but take note of this. I would like to know why the DELTA Group, to which Mr Chrysochide referred, has created it. I'm not saying this to pay tribute to a reputed Citizen's Protection Minister, but I'm saying it for what? We established trade unionism in the Security Body, established the day-to-night and nights, so that the policeman can have a life-protection, not at the time he attempts, but have a little more humane working conditions, to which the Communist Party has also referred on his ideological side. I don't know anything. We, therefore, have also created the Delta team, because we know very well that the pedestrian patrols are not as effective as the on-board and as the small Delta group that they were. I'm finishing up, Minister, but you understand that I want to go to the point, and I'm waiting for your answers. I would expect you or even think about it for the future - because I heard yesterday at the POSSY offices that called us and that your secretary was there, that there were problems with the DELTA team - even now to see the matter again and reconstruct this group, because it is very useful. The DELTA team and its revolution in any form and in any diaphragms you want to put, was very useful, will be in the right direction. So I'm waiting for your answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u97	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u98	Mr President, Mrs Christophilopoulou, I am pleased to hear clear positions on the condemnation of acts of violence against political persons and anyone. But not to repeat - it is essentially the same question as Mr Charakopoulos, but you added some elements which are useful to the debate - I will insist on the question of when the Exarches were created, what problems were created and accumulated over time, how the situation has been dealt with so far. You see, there are mostly drug-related respondents, because I believe that drugs are the source or the feeder of many problems in the region, and I think we will agree on that. They are respondents, which have never been done, with the result, not brooms, gathering everyone in front of us. I'll tell you about the West Attica, which you know well. Don't tell me there's not been a systematic job in the West Attica. Of course, if you want to neutralize the problems in an area that has never been given any importance to either its productive potential or its educational level, I would once again tell you that miracles only in a police way are not done, despite the general efforts made by the government. For the DELTA team, you haven't been consulted properly, and you haven't been told about her story. Do not get carried away because Mr. Chrysochoidis, a man of your resignation, founded it. It has then evolved and acted in a manner similar to anarchists, that is, not by rules, as the institutions of the state must act. I therefore think that your resignation should re-examine the position of re-establishing the Delta force. It was a force that had escaped its purpose and acted in a way, as I said, out of every rule. So you should see some things again. From there on, accept the numbers, because they are not the Minister's numbers, but they are the police numbers in terms of increasing arrests - something that means - in Exarcheus, that 28% I said before to Mr Charakopoulos. Accept the figures for reducing crime, as I accept that there are still problems, which we are trying to deal with and we will step up our efforts to deal with in this area. But look at it in relation to the other regions, but also with the centre of Athens, which I will tell you a few things later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, forty-two students and students and two educational attendants from the Hellenic School "Evgenios Delkrouas" (second section). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Madam Colleague, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u100	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, because you say the problem is timeless, I would like to tell you that it is obviously a time-consuming problem both in the Exarcheus and in the West Attica. In the western Attica, which I am following in my capacity as a Member of the region, I would like to remind you - perhaps Mr Harakopoulos was also in the House at that time - that when the government of the New Democracy was in 2007-2008, when there was a huge drug outburst, then I appealed to the then Minister of the New Democracy as opposition and along with colleagues in the intergroup - because these issues were good to exist - and patrols began again. There was a recession then. There have been attempts over time and we are here now. But in relation to the current situation, Minister, you will allow me to say a few times first, because yes, problems are over a period of time, but for the first time I remember being ambushed in the MATs in Thessaloniki and the molotovs falling rain. I remember that being the first time. Also, for the first time I remember Ruviks entering the Greek Parliament because, Mr President, you know very well that the Spanish Parliament had invaded Franco. This is where Ruvik invaded the Greek Parliament. And that's the first time I remember. For the first time, Minister, we also had invasions of foreign embassies because children and babies were protesting in your own expression. We don't want to focus on Ruvikon, but I say it because you said it for the first time. As I said to the lieutenant yesterday in POSY, I do not want to employ the House from 11, 17, 19, 27 May and from 1 June to 15 June, Minister, who finally arrested eleven people and made eight arrests, if I remember, until then every two or three days we have major and extensive incidents. So I will say - and there I will criticize you with real enthusiasm, because I could be much more acute in this regard - that there are also some 'first times' that you need to see again. The responsibility is not your personal responsibility. The government's responsibility is collective because it also concerns other ministries and I understand it. But as far as yours is concerned, Minister, I expect you to tell me whether there is a comprehensive real transport plan through reorganisation of staff. Beyond what you do, that is to say take police officers - and you do well - from where they are not useful and take them to risk points, tell us whether there is a plan that will be able to release men and women from administrative burdens and problems and throw them into everyday life worthwhile, so that we can deal with the situation. Finally, Mr President, I would like to point out to the Minister - and there I hope we will agree - that as many men and women as possible, and if we send out despite the fact that we need to strengthen their safety in the field of equipment, but also in the areas of their overall protection, there is an issue of operational planning. And here I would like your position, because you too have hit the officers. At some point the question arises whether there are orders and whether the orders are clear. The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. The EPP, of course, should be under democratic control. But I would point out, Minister, that it is possible for this democratic police to have some special groups. If Delta had indeed escaped, then you should do what I tell you. A special team like this needs it again. There must be disciplinary measures, there must be control, there must be reconstruction. You'll find the way. I will not speak of this, nor will I defend any man or woman of the ELAS has done any disciplinary misconduct, if any. But I will tell you that such a useful tool with democratic control can be reconstructed. Think about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u102	Mrs.Christophilopoulou, because you're causing me to numbers, let me inform you that in Exarchia from 2012-2013-2014 we had a hundred forty-four arrests for attacks on civilians, public buildings, public objectives, shops, houses, etc. One hundred and forty-four arrests! Do you know how many incubations? A thousand six hundred five. In the period 2015-2016-2017, eighty-five arrests, two hundred-three increments. That's where systematic work seems and not a job in the media favors, because that's what it was. I should like to refer to the policemen who have withdrawn from the guarding of persons and places, eight hundred and more. Others will follow, and there may also be reactions from your colleagues here, some of whom want to have a lot of police officers. These officers - and I invite you, if you will, to come to the office to be informed of the details - have been checked one by one so that they do not go to other political persons or do not go to offices. They've all gone to these jobs that I told you, that is, to the pedestrian patrols in the center of Athens or to police stations in Attica. I am referring to Attica, but something similar also applies to Thessaloniki. Believe there's a systematic job going on. Please do not believe a number of considerations that there is a political order not to be arrested, not to make a number of such fairy tales. It's just fairy tales. You know what? The women and men of the Greek Police are doing an excellent job. These people have made cases extremely difficult and continue to make. You will also see in the next few days assumptions related to identifying people who have been close to the common crime. So many cases and difficulties in dealing with the common crime, if you remember or look on the Internet, I'm sure you won't find it. There's a great job coming from the Greek police. The Greek police are not inhibited by anyone. There is much to deal with the common crime, and there are huge efforts to ensure security in the center of Athens that had never been done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Minister. Next, the seventeenth under number 1628/11-5-2018, a topical question by the Independent MEP, Mr.Estethios Panagoulis, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Criminality and all kinds of attacks by the underworld and fork rebels." Mr. Panagoulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u104	Mr President, I am pleased that Mr Toskas has found the way to come to the House. From 4 March until today, Mr President, four months have passed and Mr Toskas each time said that he had miserable obligations. Mr President, you must tell Mr Toska that the first obligation for the Member and the Minister is Parliament. This is your obligation, Mr. Toska. What are the unsettled obligations? Did you keep watch on the Argirupolis Police Department the three foreign criminals left? And, Mr President, I testify to this, a police officer was all over the department that night. For two or three hours, they melted the bars and left. This timely question I tabled comes, Mr President, on the occasion of the events that took place on 28-2-2018 on Ermos Street, where a group of false rebellions, false-against, "yaladzi rebels" broke down the whole of Ermos and no one was arrested. And two days later it happened, Mr President, and on the street of Patisia. We have daily robbery: On March 3 and 4 in the Acropolis, hundreds of thousands of tourists visit it daily. They're getting their wallets. No one's been arrested. And now we're coming to the other thing. The area around the Polytechnic every weekend reminds us of a war situation. Mr. Toska, you're a spectator in the facts. You recommend to the Greeks, when the various criminals enter their homes, to sleep. Should they do the same if he had a husband, children or grandchildren, the old lady who was "ungulated" by the villains? Should her children or grandchildren do whatever they sleep? You, Mr. Toska, in Halandri where you live are kept by dozens of officers. Even on the roof you have an officer. Even on the roof! What are you afraid of? The aliens? And you say you're getting hits underneath the waist. Yesterday you gave an unreserved interview with ERT, the "since" ERT, which reminded me of other times, while you had to come here today to answer the questions and then go to ERT. Really, I repeat, you're a spectator in the facts. You've done away with the DELTA team. I understand why you have abolished it: why do you now have the chemicals? We don't need the Delta team. When gathering five, ten, twenty, fifty, drop them a few chemicals and disappear. Even at Prespes, your chemicals went, Minister. More often someone on the street meets an alien than a pedestrian patrol, Mr. Toska. Look at other European countries how they deal with crime and terrorism. And now I want to draw your attention to what I will tell you. On the 1st of May, a Greek retired former police officer was murdered in Pallini and a large sum of money was found, as the police said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u105	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u106	All right, Mr. President. Two more minutes, Mr President. I waited four months, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u107	Okay, you have tolerance. I'm just reminding you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u108	We don't see Mr. Tosca again. We'll only see him in the interviews at the ERT.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u109	But now, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u110	He was murdered by a retired, former Greek police officer and was declared, listen, Mr. President, that a large sum of money was found in a bag. How much was the money, Mr. Toska? 5,000, 10,000, 50,000 or 100,000? And where was it intended? I ask you directly: did you meet the late Spyros Papachristos? Did you have contacts with him? And where did the investigation end up? A man was killed! Where have the investigations come up? I'll tell the rest of it in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u111	Mr. Panagoulis, thank you. Here, Mr. Toska, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u112	Mr President, Mr Panagioulis systematically uses this House to hurt me personally. I respect Parliament's space and just want to answer what he says in his question, relating to matters of order in relation to previous years. I also told Mr Harakopoulos and Mrs Christophilopoulou that there is the improvement that the whole world sees, unless specific sites are monitored. Crime has been reduced, even in difficult areas. Even in very tough crime, large groups have been exposed to crime and, if you like, it is the contribution of both the Greek Police and the Ministry's political leadership. From there on, what do you want me to say? For all these lies, that on the roof of my house there's a cop? That I'm being guarded by dozens of policemen while I may be the minister the fewer police are guarding than ever? I am not going to enter this dialogue, because in this pile of lies, such as what money was made by the police officer who was killed, I cannot say anything from now on. Mr. Panagulis has become accustomed to speaking with insults and insults. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u113	Thank you. Mr. Panagoulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u114	I'm sorry, Mr. President. I have many periods since 1977 in this Chamber. For the first time, Minister, he does not come to answer the questions that we have been asking him for three, four, five, six months. And fortunately, they don't miss the news because we have the same cases every day. I won't be the ones I'm going to say the Greek police have no successes. The Minister, a while ago, blamed the leadership of the Greek police, saying, Mr President, and it was not him who put his hand in the crises that took place last February. You have persecuted, Minister, worthy of officers. The Counterterror Group two has gone through, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u115	Say it all.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u116	Mr. Stelios Syros and Antonis Bakkas, who took over large groups of terrorists and anarchists. Minister, can you tell us about the two-time, in the last two years, ATM blasts? It's all at 3:00, 3:30 at night. Yesterday we had three if I'm not mistaken. Did you arrest any of them? And for Papachristos you left impliedly. And if I tell you that I have a tip, that a few weeks before his murder you ate together in Calivia, what are you going to tell me? Papachristou doesn't live. If he was alive, he would confirm that. Mr President, the Minister is not a Minister for Civil Protection. He's a minister for the protection of hood drivers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u117	Mr President, I do not think we can go on like this!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u118	Minister, this is not the first time we may have an excessive reason. You'll answer in a few minutes. This is an exaggeration, and the Bureau understands it. You'll answer. Please. Mr. Panagoulis, take a look.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u119	Give a regulation to Mr. Toska to read it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u120	Pacts, but also "the Minister protects the hoodmen" are a heavy talk. You understand that. You're an old parliamentarian. Let's be a little milder.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u121	Tell me, Mr President, how many of those who have been charged have been brought to the courts? What are the names of them, of themselves and of themselves? In order not to proceed with a heavier complaint, I will bring him back to Mr. Toska when he finds the way here in Parliament to answer. Yes, Mr President, I say with all knowledge of the consequences that Mr Toskas, with his guidance from well-known party centres or elsewhere, protects with his behaviour and attitudes all those who are trying to create a turmoil every day. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the Vice-President of Parliament, Ms. MARios GEORGIADIS.]] Minister, you did not answer for Papachristos. He was murdered. He was a retired officer of the Greek Police. You didn't tell us how much money the bag had in it. Fifty, hundred thousand? We left from five to ten. And where was this money meant, Minister? What investigation has the police done, and where has it ended up? Mr President, I think the Minister avoids answering serious questions. He told us yesterday in his infamous interview with ERT that he accepted - he says - strikes under the waist by political parties and by MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u122	Mr President, will you keep him next year?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u123	What do you mean, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u124	You're also doing the president, Minister, how long do I have to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u125	Mr. Panagulis, I'm sorry. Minister, I presiding, and when necessary you'll answer. So, you in three minutes will be done? Can I keep this, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u126	For God's sake. It is a timely question and we know that we are not going exactly with time and we have a relative tolerance. This will also be the case with Mr Panagulis. Go on, Mr. Panagoulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u127	Why, Minister, this? Does it bother you how long to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u128	Mr Panagoulis, there is no need to open a dialogue here on this matter. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u129	You, Minister, were you speaking for an hour yesterday at the ERT in an interview and will you forbid me to speak for four minutes today?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u130	Mr. Panagoulis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u131	Congratulations, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u132	Please very much, Mr. Panagoulis. Just limit yourself to the subject of your topical question. Let's not get away.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u133	I'll finish with one sentence. They have gone through, Minister, the times 'decide and order'. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u135	Mr President, I respect the Greek Parliament and control by the parties of the democratic arch. However, in addition to this, there is the honourable Member, who alone is the MP of the slandering arc, the professional political anointer. I won't follow that course. He can't touch me. It's not worth it. He is a professional wanderer and I, the Ministry's political leadership, will in no case give pre-review material, which the honourable Member is asking me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The eighteenth eighth under number 1716/29-5-2018 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARKKKKOS KEgeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Direct payment of the balance of the reinforcement of the 2014 programme of young farmers", will not be debated as a result of an impediment to the honourable Member's question. The fourth under number 1811/13-6-2018 topical question of the second-cycle MEP in Thessaloniki, Mr. Aristides Fokas, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Dramatic toll increase", will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the questioner. The third, with number 1815/18-6-2018, timely question of the first cycle of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Emergent need for the subordination of OSE railway lines in Larissa", will not be discussed after consultation of the honourable Member with the Minister. The first, with number 1816/18-6-2018, top-stage question of the Evian MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Georgios Excellency to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: “Municipal Market of Chalkida”, will not be discussed due to the impediment of Minister Koniordos, who is abroad. The second question, under number 1820/18-6-2018, of the second question of the Parliamentary Serres of New Democracy, Mr. Fotinis Arabatzis, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "RDP/SR 2014-2020, of the works of Amphipolis, due to the obstruction of the Ministry of Culture", will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of Minister Koniordos, who is abroad. The third, with number 1832/19-6-2018, topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "For the situation of the workers in GDPI and the rights of the authors of its members, it will also not be discussed due to the impediment of Minister Koniordos, who is abroad. The sixth question under number 1809/13-6-2018, the first question of the President of Thessaloniki, Mr. Aristides Fokas, to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "Trade negotiations", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister, Mr. Kotzias, who is on a journey internally. The eighth Question No 1726/30-5-2018 by the Independent Member of the Messinia Parliament, Dimitrios Koukoutsis, to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "Glory loans from the Turkish bank of Ziraat to the tobacco producers of Thrace", will not be discussed due to the inhibition of Minister Kotzia, who is on a domestic journey. The seventh Question No 1808/13-2018 by Independent MEP 2, Theocharis Theocharis to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: “Continuous cases of violence on the floors of the Greek Football Championship”, will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport, Vasiliadis, who will be at a press conference with the Olympic Committee. The fourth under number 1812/14-16-2018 topical question for the first cycle of Congressman I Piraeus - Golden Dawn Mr.Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The situation in the refugee hospitality centre in Scaramaga" will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Home Affairs Mr. Nicholas Toska. The Fifteenth under No. 1554/24-2018 topical question by MP Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of the Interior, on the building for the housing of the Department of National Roads, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of the Interior Mr. Nicholas Toska, because it is not discussed. The sixth, number 1151/26-2-2018, topical question by MP Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Questions regarding the case of agent on the basis of revelations by Panos Kammenos", will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Interior Mr. Nicholas Toska. Also, the sixth Question No 1834/19-6-2018 topical question by MP II Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Subtracting trade union action at the IKOS Hotel in Corfu and illegal retention of trade union officials in the field of the hotel by the employer", will not be discussed due to an impediment by Minister Ahcioglou, due to unsettled commitments. All the above-mentioned obstacles of the Ministers are confirmed by a letter from the Government Secretariat and Mr Kalogerou. The debate on the topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-21-S1-commons.u137	With the consent of the House at 12.14 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday 22 June 2018 at 10.00 hours, on the subject of the House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
