ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of the Interior: "Reforming the institutional framework of the Local Government - Development of the Republic - Strengthening the Participation - Improving the economic and development functioning of the LAGs" - Arrangements for the modernisation of the LAGs' organisation and operation. - Arrangements for the effective, more rapid and uniform exercise of the responsibilities for the award of citizenship and naturalisation - Other provisions of the RIS. Yesterday - in my opinion inconveniently - eight colleagues on their own have asked them not to speak and be placed today. As this has been accepted by the Bureau, this agreement will be complied with with with with the Bureau and we will begin with Mr Gregoraco with the first speaker. But today, in agreement with the President, we have come to the conclusion that this cannot continue, as you can see, because not all the others will speak in this case. Today, only if at the time of speaking of one's name is in committee, which is objective reason why he cannot be in the Chamber, will he not delete his name from the list of speakers. Otherwise, I beg your pardon very much, but those who are not present will be deleted. This thing can't be done. There are eight colleagues who are now absent from yesterday. I already see Mr. Gregorakos, Mr. Koukoutsi and others. If not everyone is here, I'm going to go to the first in a row after Mr. Scandalidis, who according to the list was to speak normally today. I would ask, however, that the secretariats of the parliamentary groups, which I assume are following the House, should inform Members of coming, because otherwise we will not find a beginning or end. They've spoken for fifty-six, minus eight, actually, they've spoken for forty-eight, and the registered ones are hundred and thirty-five. These are, if we want to finish today, otherwise we will go tomorrow. I say that for the beginning. We're not making a decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, may I speak on a point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u3	Here you go, Mr. Dritsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, will these eight colleagues come before us? I would ask that the order be kept a little bit, because we are committed to committees after 11 a.m.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u5	I'm not taking it en bloc, Mr. Drizza. They will speak two - and if they are two, because I do not see the eight of yesterday's colleagues in the Chamber - and two normally from the list. Mr. Gregoraco, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, in the morning - morning I happened to be in a hospital and I heard the complaints made by workers: partisanism, anxieties, dismantling. I happen to be in education. Only one thing I'm telling you: "Identification" of universities. Instead of going forward, instead of being better, we're unfortunately coming back. All the universities in the country become a TEI. I'm coming to the bill now. This is a false reform. In other words, you want to dismantle an institution, which is a pillar of democracy, such as the trade union movement and Parliament. For all of this, you have a plan. In other words, you want the political driving of self-government, health, education and everything else. You want party manipulation. You cannot change heads without laws and tell them "go to the courts to be vindicated". This is done in health, in education to promote, of course, micro-participatory and flexible pursuits. In particular, you are repeating today in the 'CLINEN'. What are you doing? You go to the most extreme, the well-known, that is, political opportunism, cynicism, amoracism that we see today in NATO. At NATO today is your partner, the one who says he'll shoot you. If that's not amoralism, what is it? You know, therefore, that in local government, that is, regional and local, you do not have a political presence, you do not affect the work of its operation, you do not control its decisions, you do not have elementary resonance and influence. You realize that this absence does not allow you to have any party benefit. That's why you did all this. And because - to remember the terrible phrases of some of your great executives - you have the government, but you do not have the power, you are drunk with the most disgraceful and unheardless actions of the 'CALIKARAT'. What do you want to do today with the simple analogue? You are attempting to break down municipal forces, no matter whether your pursuit will lead to powerlessness in the regions and local authorities. By partitioning the second Athens, as you have done, you cut off and sew the arrangement of the new constituencies, with the sole aim of strengthening the areas you are weak. By separating the municipalities in different sections you again aim at those changes that will make it easy to manipulate the institution. The conception, design and implementation of "CLISTENI" was made with a party blackout in your hands. You've counted everything. Your only concern is to create in self-government party infrastructure you do not have, in order to maintain some, whatever powers you have left. You did not treat self-government as an autonomous, autonomous and arbitrary political entity. On the contrary, it was and it was for you the Baptist to consolidate your sovereignty. The "CLINICAL" does not only breathe micropolitics and opportunism. Even worse, it's mostly a Machiavean political plan to get access where you don't. Besides, in this way you are skilled. Regularity is the second, for me, after your first, nature, without any strategic thought, without any political plan for substantial changes and forms for stricken and powerless self-government. You care about just one thing: to establish your party domination in the patient area of self-government. Your choice is also explained and interpreted. With "CLOSURE" you seek lifesaving to avoid your social and political deception. I shall conclude, Mr President, in time. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems clear now that you are dealing with local government, like all the burning issues of the Greek economy and society, with micro-party and communication terrain. This explains all the contradictions and inconsistencies that exist. We saw them yesterday when you changed the law from morning to night at noon. So it explains that you are resorting to refluxes that lead to chaotic situations. In health, in education - being there and watching closely - things are tragic, it's chaos. You change the voting time and reinstate the four-year term. That is a rhetorical question and I do not want to answer it. You want to combine the self-government elections with the parliamentary elections if you might win something with the loss that will occur. I'm done. Our party does not claim that the current electoral system is without weaknesses and distortions. In order to discuss proposals and a more proportionate system, however, it is essential that we ensure the dynamic, effective exercise of administration in the regions and municipalities at the same time. Your staying in power, ladies and gentlemen, brings economic and social crisis and the political crisis will shortly be added to this crisis. So our proposal is clear and well-known: the country's rescheduling imposes recourse to the popular verdict. Here's the election. It's no different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u7	Thank you too, Mr. Gregoraco. In adopting Mr Dritsa's correct remark, I am taking it alternately, and I say the next three speakers. Mr. Scandalidis will now speak, then Mr. Koukoutsis will speak from yesterday, and then Mrs. Anagnastopoulou will be on the list today. Mr. Scandalidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, unfortunately, you brought hundreds of pages to dismantle the local government agencies and make them a field of trade and party candral. You could do it with an article, such as the one that would abolish the memorandum. You don't. And if anyone had a doubt about your real goals, the amendments we have been through these two days to entertain their thoughts. They shield the transaction and aspire not only to make it irreversible, but to link it to the party pursuits of the parliamentary elections. It is so obvious and so small, so amateur, that it is becoming a challenge to the intelligence of the last citizen on the ground. This practice betrays your inexistent relationship with democracy and its institutions. And with other institutions you have a corresponding practice. Now you come to the area of self-government. This practice betrays the complete impossibility of conceiving the real needs that require the reintegration of the state into a modern and decentralised structure, the lack of any reformist mood, and especially your refusal to support any change that you do not control partisanally. What do you do with this proposal? I'll tell you clearly. In the name of an irrational democracies you shoot the real democracy at the local government agencies, enhance the impertinent localism, flatter the authoritylessness and the last citizen, paralyse the relationship of the OTAs with the daily life of the citizens, give the trigger for agreements under the table, promote the substantial fragmentation of the municipalities into small pieces and restore to the surface the most delayed reactions that have taken many years to overcome them through great efforts and major reforms that have taken place. This piece of legislation won't last time. At any time you choose to hold the parliamentary elections, it will not take time, because it cannot be implemented. You were not taught by the whole controversy that the municipalities of the country and the regions have made against you. You did not have any dialogue before you made these changes, which lead nowhere. You will ask me, is there no need to change the electoral system, to become more democratic in the municipalities? I'd tell you, yes, there's a need to change. But there are certain conditions. It requires a change in the internal structure and functioning of the municipalities. We need to strengthen its executive bodies, so that they can make decisions and implement them. Parliamentary procedures need to be introduced into the operation of the proviso so that the concept of participation and opposition of the municipality in the day-to-day management of local things is truly guaranteed. It is necessary to deforestation the bureaucracy that accompanies the operation of the municipal council, when the municipal council and the last municipality speaks with forty-five issues, which cannot be dealt with and solved. We need all this to take precedence. You're categorizing the municipalities. You do well to do it. But it is a card exercise. What does it mean to categorize? What's different from the big municipality? What different resources does the little one have from the great municipality? How are jobs that are different entities directed, have different dynamics, have different things? And, indeed, it was an equilibrium process. We have been reforming all these years. You didn't learn from what we stumbled. For example, in bureaucracy, the ability of the administration to intervene and impose its wishes on the relationship of central authority and self-government. In that we did not have a full implementation programme. But here we are talking about three hundred eighty-seven pages, which say nothing but how the electoral system will actually change. I mean, then, that while it is a time that really needs a third wave of reforms, which really needs a progressive revolution and a change in the field of the state to go to a modern decentralised and democratic state, you bring a piece of legislation that does not lead to dissolution and transaction. It is a pity, because there is another opportunity to take things forward and not backwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u9	Mr Scandalidis, thank you for the consistency in time. Personally, I don't have to see what you said. Any colleague who wants to speak can speak from his position, because he is five minutes. Mr. Koukoutsis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. By bringing this bill to parliament, the government really did not surprise anyone. A long time ago, her intentions were known. In the past, these efforts to bring about substantial changes have been presented as reformist - they are supposed to - and integrate local government into our political system on a proper basis. If we now sit down and analyse the "Kappistiria" and "KOLIKARATIS", we will realize the ignorance of previous governments and yours, considering the current draft law on the substance and power of local government. Problems in regions and municipalities are huge and suffocating state hug is the most important. In the current bill, however, the biggest concern seems to be the need to extend representatives to all citizens and to use your own terms, on the left, a full democratic enlargement. In the light of the fact that every electoral rule must satisfy basic criteria, certain basic criteria, such as not leading to insolence, no exclusions and no new problems to the existing ones, do you think that KLATHENIS meets them? With this bill, in essence, it seeks that OTA resources have as their main source entrepreneurship and recompense and therefore engage in a tax-sparkling hunt that the municipalities should do to survive. Double electoral procedures are being introduced, control bodies are multiplying for the protection of the general public in local government. In all likelihood, the simple analogue will favour the transaction under the table in order to obtain the required majorities. Because in this country, unfortunately, no transaction is being done - politically, electorally - without the loss. But seeing what kind of simple analogue is and while we see that the mayor is elected on the second Sunday, for example, he will have strong democratic legitimacy, he says. In any case, it will be practically a felony of whatever majority he wants to make. This is what self-government is at stake with the 'CLINKEDIS', from balances of fear and humiliation and ideologies, from every voicer of individual interests, the one who cannot enter, as long as there is an entry wall. And I consider the motto to be the primary one. Is "CLOSHIN" going to give solutions? Are we going to acquire selfishness, innovation? Are we going to have youth entrepreneurship? Are we going to be deceived by the parties? Will the municipality be shielded from small activity? Is the problem of garbage that a European Union country is stirring up in 2018? Local government, ladies and gentlemen, because we must once tell the truths in this Chamber - it is a monstrous thing created by the parties, the model, as it works, to serve their own interests. The Left participated actively in this project. Let us not forget - I will say it for once - in the 1980s, next to the green 'DG', 'Democratic Forces', what these were. What about municipal business? Micrographs of the ECHO. Supplies, works, contracts in small scales are the major contractors. Especially in the province, small-scale contractors could and can imitate the centre's majestics, ministries. Communes with the European Union's money for decades have given, not bread, but all the time, to voluntarily makers of all the shades that supported central power and tombalin. When did the municipalities and regions really invest in serious infrastructure projects later? And don't tell me as an example the streets they left behind, the gold-payers. It has therefore made sure that the central authority builds a self-government model easily blackmailable, mayor, district commander, MP, minister and toboot. It was always the local government for further authority. All town halls became culpable of the House and the central administration. They shared privileges, grants, appointings and each mayor's house also has his Tsipras, his Mitsotakis, his respective collazos and extremists. Not even a serious development effort took place in this country. It is not all the local rulers themselves, but the good are exceptions to the rule and they are not responsible for the mess themselves. Each favoured country must modernise its institutions which regulate their operation. I'm not afraid of just proportional, of course. This has to be done unreservedly, and I believe that it can offer the place, but for the local government at the present time, I think it is wrong. It will bring lawlessness, illegal trade and nothing else. In this country everything happens to the glue. But when? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u11	Mrs Anagnastopoulou has the floor on the list. Then Mr. Georgiadis will speak from yesterday, then Mr. Karasmanis will be on the list, then Mr. Tsiaras from yesterday and we will be going alternately, as we have said. Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, since yesterday we have been discussing a bill introducing some flagrant changes - reforms, and that is the beginning, because 'CLINICAL II' is next. Since yesterday I have heard from the Civic Opposition, but also from the rest of the Opposition, the question is who asked for a simple analogue. The mayors asked, did anyone else ask? What surprises this country, for the political parties in particular who have ruled the place, is that it does not pay attention and never listens to society, to invisible and unseen society. What samples are there to which you have never given any attention, especially lately? When there is a right-wing rise, when there is abstention from the elections, when it has preceded a period of economic crisis that has changed social identities, it has driven many people out into unemployment, it has marginalised it, when there is economic pressure, the creation of newly-poor, etc., then this society, in which it acts right-wing forces, this society must definitely find a way again, and that is what the political leadership can only inspire it, so that it can find a way again, to participate in the commons, that is to say, to reculturalise itself. So, then, the simple analogue is a request for which, with tight lips, is screaming with tight lips, only that you are not listening to it, as you did not hear too many other things, such as trembling from the collapse of the country's economic model, which was collapsed by society itself, as you did not hear what was happening with foreign policy. Also, now you're not listening to anything or rather hearing what suits you, because you find it an opportunity. I shall refer to the next item. So when we have such phenomena, a political leadership what it is trying to do is to listen and respond to the anxiety of society. Secondly, when you have to change this country, when you have to change this development model so that these phenomena that led the country to the lip of destruction, from where it will change, will it not change from below? Is it going to change from the top? When corruption and complications had really passed across the whole fabric of society, from where does it need to change? Should there not be a participatory economy? Should there not be any participatory budgets? These are things you probably don't want to hear and understand. When a country is in such a rupture in relation to the past - it has become an incision, the economic crisis is incision in that country, what is happening in Europe, the rise of the extreme right is incision, is a break with the past - what makes a serious political leadership, which wants to have a vision for the future? He looks at two things right away: the tradition of the place, what has this society been mobilised when it has been rounded and on the other hand what practices are taking in other European countries at this time, or at a global level. Two models have mobilized society. One was direct popular participation. When this society turned too far, when Nazism fell over its head, the first thing it touched was popular participation at local level. That's how he made it. With immediate democracy it has not been decided. He was able to survive and survive. I'll report you the Girls. He doesn't say anything to you, I know. The other model, however, is an opportunity - and that is what you are trying to do - to impose, to legitimise in the name of these changes a model of local government, a one-faced person, in which the mayor and a few-faced authority are accountable to the market. We saw them with the contractors, with all that. So the point is where someone's trying to catch the thread and what powers they're trying to mobilize from society. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In Europe, however, are we the idealists, who suddenly discovered powder and are we trying to impose it? Take a look at what is going on in southern Europe and in various other regions and in Canada - I should like to say to you - where we have models of direct democracy, because a major question has been raised over the last few decades in Europe and in the developed world. Society is crushed by the globalised and European model of governance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u13	Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u14	I'm closing, Mr. President. If we do not want to lose democracy, we must revise and reorientate, get the masses into the political arena. This cannot be done above, only by mobilising forces at local level. So, right now, two big currents are crashing here. They have crashed again in Europe and they have re-entered Greece. We believe that this unspeakable society must find a way to re-establish itself at the forefront of history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u15	Please keep the years. We've been continuing with Mr. Adoni Georgiadis since yesterday. Here, Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u16	I shall speak from my position, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u17	I would be happy, Mr. Georgiadis. You're from your position. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u18	Mr President, thank you very much. Minister, I was in committee when I heard you answer the arguments about why the elections should be held in October 2019. You have had very strong arguments and I would say that you have been extremely convincing. Suddenly, in a few hours - not in days - you told us why, at noon, the elections had to be held in October and the other day, you told us that you accepted the amendment, because the elections had to be done in May. When people see you on a subject that you have been defending with so much passion for months with your interviews, you personally, explaining, with your statements, you, the Minister and you suddenly change your mind in a few hours, then, as you understand, people's confidence in you personally and in your government is zeroed. Whatever you say from now on, people will remember that at noon you told the House why the elections must be held in October and the next morning you told the House why the elections must be held in May. Unless the issues of unconstitutionalism understood when you were sleeping, which seems a little strange to me to have happened. Why am I saying that? To show you're actually dealing with everything completely micro-political. Before Mrs Anagnostopoulou said, 'Society asked for simple proportionality to the municipalities'. That's obvious. Wherever we went, the first thing the citizens told us about was just proportional to the municipalities! We heard nothing but civilians! We're obviously fooling around! The other argument is the pretext of the extreme right. I'm sorry. With the simple analogy to the municipalities and without the 3% limit? And here I'm going to do a parentheses. I repeat that to your colleague Mr Pano Kammenos you do not even have the pleasure of telling him why his request is being rejected. You are not saying 'I reject my co-pilot's request for one, two, three, four reasons'. You're ignoring him. You're writing him in the oldest of your shoes! But let's actually go. Without the 3% limit and with a simple analogue, won't it have on every municipal council, Minister, Golden Dawn municipal council advisers? Is there going to be a city council without golden municipal councillors? And not just Golden Dawn. In order to go to the other side, Mrs. Zoe Konstantopoulou, who betrayers you, your traitors, will not make municipal councils almost all the municipal councils with your law? So what's the obstacle to the scrubbing of the far right and the right-hand side you're talking about? I'll add it to the fare. You will give voice to all municipal councils, to the most extreme political formations in Greece and make them the first picture in Greece. Why? Remind those who do not remember that the rise of the Golden Dawn began when Nikos Michaloliakos broke the dam at the time and was elected municipal councillor of Athens and began to come out in the news releases and in the channels as a municipal advisor to Athens. Prepare after your law, Mr. Skourletis, to see similar people and the extreme of one side and the other on all channels. And you'll see the municipal councillor of the Freedom Liberation tells Skourlet "the traitor" to be in the channels and will be with your law. That's what you're doing today. Of course not. I'm saying this to record historically and know why you're both foolish. Listen to it all the time. I told you to do so in committee and you did not answer it. When this election is to take place, and then the municipalities and regions will not be governed, who will be able to reverse it? Nobody. It's going to be four years of chaos that might be what you want. What? Drug the next government. Become Prime Minister Mitsotakis, not working local government, to be chaos everywhere to put greater obstacles to the next government. This is finally your real plan, because the elections know you're losing them. I would like to say a few words about the vote on the motion for a resolution, because it has been heard many times and I want it to be tabled, Mr President. The argument of those who say where the New Democracy has been for so many years is false. In this House, Kostas Karamanlis' government with Minister of Interior Prokopi Pavlopoulou submitted a bill for the vote on the results. Then this bill did not take the two seats imposed by the Constitution for its first implementation, and that is why the Democrats are not voting for it. The New Democracy had done its duty to prove itself. And the Samara - Venizelou government has again started drafting a bill, which, due to the fall in two years, has not been able to complete. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. So the New Democracy over time supported the demand for the repayments. It is not a shortcut to support today. We believe it. We have to give them a voice. I am telling you directly, Minister, that I personally have no confidence in you that in five months, as you say, you will bring such a bill. I wish I could go out a liar. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u19	Mr President, I would like to make a personal clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u20	Minister, here's what I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u21	That's right, but I think...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u22	Yeah, listen, listen. Every time a speaker refers to you, I am not going to give you the floor to make a personal explanation. Pick them up and at regular intervals, I'll give you the floor. But now, I would turn to you with this request, because I hear you have legislative improvements. You do not need to read them, you will take the floor for a moment to testify them, monograph them, photocopy them and share them with colleagues. The request, however, is to do this as soon as possible. Now, for the first time, because since the morning it's been a while, for two minutes, I give you the floor, but on the condition that I told you. Every time one speaker refers to your name, I am not going to give you the floor to answer. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. I am going to move exactly in the logic that you mentioned. Mr Georgiadis, all the previous days and the committees, but also before in the public debate you blamed us for transferring the date from May to October. This bill you know that it indeed establishes this division, which will apply from the next elections and has a very specific logic. And you were telling us, after the transfer of the elections to national elections coincides, what is the benefit of disconnecting them from the European elections? So now that for certain reasons, which relate to this underlying leak around the issues of constitutionality, we are adopting what you have been telling us to do, you tell us that we are changing our position. Why are you changing your argument right now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u24	I don't change it. I'm telling her the same thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u25	You could say that you were confirmed, that we adopted your logic.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u26	So we convinced you?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u27	But be careful to see, on the issues of the Undemocratic Hellenism, we have said so. I think that what you say is compulsory. You have had too many opportunities as previous governments, you have done nothing. You think it favours you in this matter, that it is a favourable field. I do not know how favourable it is because the thousands of young people who have left have left because of your own policy, not just your own and the other side you have managed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u28	Minister, you have asked for clarification, not for a point you spoke about in your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u29	I'm in one minute and thirty-three seconds, I've got two minutes, you've eaten me one second, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u30	Yeah, but you won't be kidding me. The clarification is a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u31	Can I go on?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u32	Here you go. Go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u33	Thank you. With regard to the simple analogous issue, until 2000 when all the resolutions of the CRP were unanimously in favour of mere analogous what sought to self-sufficient local self-government? No, of course not. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] You have shown allergy, disobedience to the democratic process. And with regard to the new possibilities of the ends expressed by the introduction of the simple proportional and in particular your sensitivity to the Golden Dawn, you must not say so, which you have put your party into a specific competition with the Golden Dawn by adopting a occult ethnicism.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u34	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u35	So you personally are responsible for this shift today in New Democracy's profile and policy and in the peculiar competition with the Golden Dawn. Others, then, such sensations.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u36	Mr President, I would like the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u37	Mr Georgiadis, you have the floor for a minute and I will not give the floor again to such interventions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u38	You are not consistent now, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u39	I run, and if you don't like it, Minister, make a motion of censure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u40	I would never do it for you!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u41	I run and if you don't like the way I run, you make a motion of censure to me. We're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u42	I would never, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u43	Well, thank you very much, but I will not make a mess and I will not deny the right of Members to speak. You have the floor for a minute, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President, but I think it is the definition of staff. He said: "You personally." How much more personal can it be?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u45	You have a minute, don't waste time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u46	Minister, listen. I have given you a particular concern that you will find him in front of you. And I didn't just tell you about the Golden Dawn, which is embarrassing you to put me in the gold Dawn frame. It's a disgrace to you for real!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u47	Say something now, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u48	You were in the square of "indignant" with the Golden Dawn and yelling for the Parliament. You in this House with the Golden Dawn have thrown Samara government with Stavros Dimas and his election for the Presidency of the Republic. So not to us suggestions for the Golden Dawn. However, I told you that with the simple analogue that you are establishing and without the 3% limit, which your partner is asking for and which you write in the oldest of your shoes and you do not even reply to him, you will give voice to all extremes and I have not only spoken about the Golden Dawn. I told you, to remember, that you will see the combinations of Zois Konstantopoulou, for example, in every municipality...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u49	Don't make personal reports.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u50	...Council telling you traitors. That's what you do today, because that's what they do today in Greece and don't do that you don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u51	I would ask that I do not hear personal references to persons who are not in Parliament and who cannot answer whatever they may be. It's elementary parliamentary fair play not to do this thing. I now say the order: Mr. Karasmanis from the list, Mr. Tsiaras from yesterday, Mr. Simorelis from the list, Mr. Mitafidis from yesterday. Then, if Mr Constantopoulos, Mr Dritsa and Mr Giakoumatos are not in the Chamber yesterday, to conclude with yesterday's speakers. Here, Mr. Karasmanis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it sounds contradictory and steadfast that the government has given the name of Klisthene, the largest reformer of the Athenian Republic, to a piece of legislation that attempts to appear as a reform and which, from its very important articles, is revealed as deregulation, as a complete dissolution and any positive elements. Is the major problem now affecting the public is the electoral system with which it will elect the municipal and Community or regional authority? This has been discovered or found in the three and a half years that govern the country, instead of employing them how to simplify procedures, how local government will be more effective, so that it can produce projects for which local society elects it? Of course, there were and there were serious malfunctions. I have personal experience and as Minister for Rural Development I have asked a particular municipality to validate a study to advance a small dam. The will and the municipal authority existed, I do not question it. What was not there was the necessary, well-organised technical service. Are these problems solved by the bill being discussed? What causes and is the epitome of interlocutory is Article 73, which legalises lisverism and transaction. In other words, it legalises the movement of a municipal councillor from one side to another, which was banned by KALIKRATS. He only allowed him to leave and to be independent. And that's all it was? It also enables the mayor and the district mayor to appoint a vice mayor or vice-president from another combination. This is unheard of and unprecedented. Does it or not more wide open the door to transaction and corruption, not only at the level of persons but also at the level of combinations and extensions? Set up the transaction and bid for transcripts as if the combinations are football teams. Why are you doing this? For the simple reason that you do not have any influence on local government and you want the minority to give a role that you are not entitled to. Is this the democracy that cuts the 'first time left' coexistence? On the other hand, the bill abolishes the country's counter-region. It gives the district minister the opportunity to define whoever he wants, rather than obliging him to define him with most cross-references, so that at least the people's will can be expressed in a way. I consider the first articles in the bill to be very important, referring to the categorisation of the municipalities. I am going to refer to something concerning the Pella Prefecture for an unreasonable, outrageous injustice. The Municipality of Almopia was excluded a year ago from the funding of the 20 million that Mr. Skourletis gave to the small, mountainous and insular municipalities. Although it is the largest municipality of Pella and one of the largest municipalities in Greece, with an area of nine hundred and eighty-five square kilometres and a population of twenty-seven thousand fifty-six inhabitants, which constantly shrinks, an inaccurate, border-free, problematic municipality as a whole with eighty-kilometre, the only one from Epirus to Evros that has no exit to the north, isolated, is characterised by a particular geomorphological relief and with large altitude differences and huge volumes of mountainous areas and a rough road network, that is to say, meets the above criteria, but this municipality was excluded from funding, because three communities are characterised as plains, while most of the areas are mountainous. I put a question to Mr Skourletis and his answer was other words to be loved! I repossessed her, but I didn't get an answer. I hope this time that this blatant injustice will not be repeated, Mr Skourletis, by the categorisation you are making with the articles of the bill. You're blaming us, gentlemen, that we're overconcentrating. Our government for the first time allocated to the regions 1/3 out of 6 billion of the 2014-2020 Rural Development Programme, namely 1 billion 800 million for various projects, rural, forest roads, irrigation, lakes, dams, manufacturing companies, improvement plans, etc. We have given Community money to combat bureaucracy, to support decentralisation. Is that the overconcentration you're accusing us of? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And I come to the question of the fragmentation of the regions. It's something Kyriakos Mitsotakis has proposed since the first day of his election.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u53	In a minute, you'll be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u54	I'm closing, Mr. President. We have linked it to the vote of the Undemocratic Hellenism. I do not have the opportunity to analyse the proposal, but Mr Athanasios has done so, which was one of the main factors in the proposal. What is wrong at the moment is the question that is being asked to all of us: with what reason, what argument does this huge potential stand up to in all respects, we shall continue to keep it outside the political life of our country? When will we deny them the basic right to participate actively and decisively in the political processes currently defined for tomorrow's birthplace? And when will we pretend to ignore that their vote is the strongest link that will keep them tied to Greece? From this point of view - I am closing, Mr President - it is a major issue that requires consensus, overcoming, overcoming the micro-participatory aspirations and sending the Greeks the message that they have the same rights as us who are staying at home and the same opportunities to participate in the commons and, of course, the same obligations as us. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u55	We're moving on with Mr. Chiara now. Then there is Mr. Simorellis, as I said, from the list, Mr. Mitafidis from yesterday, Mr. Konstantopoulos, who came from the list, because Mr. Drichakis has to go to the committee, we will give the floor to Mr. Drykoumatos and then to Mr. Mr Constantine Tsiaras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on the second day of the debate of a bill which the government hopes will change the charter of local government, it is certain that we can reach two very specific conclusions. The first is the opportunism with which the government faces such a serious institutional issue. A second point, unfortunately, and I regret to say this, is once again the ridicule of the legislature. And I will try through the thoughts that I will testify to you that both are happening and I am sorry, but to a very large extent we should also be able to obtain the criticism of our dear, honest fellow members of the co-government. The effort that the government has been making over these two years to convince us of the necessity of changes in local government is finally confronted with reality itself. I think that through substantiated positions all the colleagues in the Officerial Representation, and in particular the rapporteur for Officerial Responsibility, has shown that this initiative by the Government will be confronted with substantial intergovernmentality in all the structures of local government. And that is something that, while it proves in the most reasonable way, none of you adopts it and accepts it. I will repeat what I usually say from this Step, namely that it is a good thing if all you say about it, believe it or indeed form part of a logic that we have to do things which are far from reality, but because they suit us politically, micro-particularly, we must also adopt them in a bill that will actually bring power in the field of local government and, of course, a major problem which, in one - I would say - is now clearly described and has been described by all representatives of local government. It is worth wondering that the Minister approached CEDEFOP resolutions in 2000 and did not take into account what the representatives of local government are saying today, which are completely and diversely contrary to what he himself claimed. However, the fact that an amendment has been tabled at the last moment, which changes all that rhetoric and the argument you had about the clear, given election time, that it had to be made on the second Sunday of October, that the new administration had to take over from 1 January of next year and that this would create a security and a certain reality in local government, unfortunately, once again demonstrates the opportuneness with which you are dealing with such a serious issue. I am very sorry to repeat this, but obviously through a target of perhaps three-fold elections, it is very easy for you, who are supposed to have no influence on local government, to try to get the elections all together, as this way, perhaps, you will have a better election result. But do you know what the result is in these cases, ladies and gentlemen? It's exactly the opposite. And I assure you that on the basis of what we see in society in recent times, the result for you will be much worse than what you imagine, whenever the elections take place. Finally, I would like to refer to this amendment which the New Democracy insists on and which deals with the possibility of voting for Greeks abroad. I know your argument is well known: 'You did not do so when you were government, why are you asking us to do it now?' I will tell you that there have been previous steps, after all it has been mentioned by several of the members of the Officerial Representation, but on the other hand there has also been a clear position among the dear representatives of the old SYRIZA, who said that we had to move on to this legislative initiative. The fact that you are now retreating from one of your own positions shows once again that you cannot support yours either in front of, if you wish, in the micro-participatory interest, whenever this occurs. But how can you support them? Here the whole referendum 'no' you took it and did it 'yes' in one day! In all this, there is something called dignity. And this dignity must be sought in the mirror and my fellow Members who have taken care of the wrong amendment to table a different amendment after hours, and the Minister, who has been supporting two years and finally came to vote. But much more so when it turns out that a belief that they are supposed to put forward and strongly support for two years now comes to change it from one moment to the next, with justifications that seem more cheap than ever. You realise that this practice not only does not afflict Greek society, not only is it not adopted by the citizens of the country, but you must be sure that when this time comes - I personally believe that it will be very soon - the popular verdict will be such that it will also prove the mistake of your own general attitude and political behaviour, but much more so it will confirm that the next government will bear the burden of real institutional changes as well as of local self-government, but also of the ability to vote for Greeks abroad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u57	Before we move on, we should also be planning for the parliamentary representatives. Mr. Theocharopoulos has asked for the floor, he will speak later. Then, after Mr. Theocharopoulos, Mr. Javaras will speak and then Mrs. Vaki will speak. Mr. Simorellis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. The score yesterday, gentlemen of the New Democracy was 2-0. Not the score in Croatia's fight with England, of course, but the score of the gaves you and Mr Han and NATO have done. I would also like to say this: the last time we have been discussing this bill for a year and a half has been a lot of talk. Truths, though, didn't hear. Civic Refugee and CEDEFOP and HNPE leaders, who have only dealt with them so far, are simply proportional. However, we must also say some truths. What are these truths? First truth. The first victim of the memorials and crisis was local self-government. He lost 60 percent. Why? Because the policies of the New Democracy and PASOK have brought our country to the rocks. Should we say another truth? Was it about this bankruptcy that those who were in charge for so many years were in local government? And you say that the simple analogue is just to record what citizens want. Apart from that, however, it also produces results. This majority that existed so far brought these logics and brought our country and local government to the rocks. Another truth. I listened carefully yesterday to Mr Voridis who said that we were too late to bring the fragmentation of the regions. Really, Mr. Voridis, forty years when you and PASOK have been, what have you done? All I remember is chartering Olympics, boats and planes and bringing people here to vote. And you also charged Olympics and the country. We have to tell these truths. There is another truth that is not said, because this bill has other things. And I will give you an example. How is a municipality funded so far? Depending on population. In other words, other municipalities such as the Municipality of Pylis, the Municipality of Kalambakas, which are farther away, how could they respond? And I'm talking about the Municipality of Kalambakas which, thankfully, Mr. Minister, has given the new name and will now be called the Municipality of Meteor. Now we are given the opportunity with this bill to regulate many things and, as necessary, each municipality to get funding. Shall we go down and talk about the communities? You go, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, to all the municipalities in the county resulting from the combinations, to tell you about the communities. Everyone's gonna tell you they've desolated. And I will give you an example. Because lately in Trikala we have had meetings with local councils, half the local councils in the communities have not known who the heads are. People had given up. They had no chance, no tool. This bill enables and responsibilities to have the local council and some money so that they can change the lamp, cut the grass and actually give breath to all these communities. We should also go downwards - because we have a little time and we don't have time to talk about everything - and talk about synergies. Trikalon City has eighty engineers. The Municipality of Gate has disasters every year etc. Kalambakas Municipality has an engineer. So this bill allows synergies to be made.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u59	Municipality of Meteor!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u60	From tomorrow. Vote it. We could say too much about these issues, as well as about the participation of the citizen. The referendums, that is, it is not bad for the citizen to have an opinion. Finally, a lot could be said about this bill. I think it's an incision. I am not talking, and I am not saying that it is a reform. If we really had the economic potential and the constitutional arrangements, we could talk about reform. What I could say - because other things have been heard, such as that we are in trifle, that the gentlemen of the New Democracy are glad that the gollops are going well for them - are that from tomorrow, however bad you are, this will be the law of the state. And, secondly, I would like to say this: please now be pleased with the polling paper which draws out your own channels which support you, but we will be delighted with the ballot of the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u61	Mr. Mitafidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, as I was listening to Mr Adoni Georgiadis earlier, I was thinking of the words of Basil Kardamakis, Head of the GES and mentor of the electoral coup of the well-known 'violence and fraud' elections of 1961: 'the more right'. That's the line you're running. You know, it's not just a line, but it's translated, especially in Thessaloniki by the fascist gangs, which have lately put in their repertoire - and it shows just their real face - the Holocaust monument, the monument of the Jewish Cemetery at the Aristotle University. To understand who you've opened the door to. And so do not throw yourself out of your seat when the Minister for the Interior testifies to you. For some two years now, the debate on the upcoming changes to the Ottawas has been contemplating that 'they are losing their lives' and making a desperate effort to disorientate public opinion by switching all the debate on the changes to the 'Kalikaratis' only to the electoral system. The funny thing, of course, is that they are coming against the mere analogue mayor and self-government factions, which in all previous years have been strong supporters of this most representative electoral system. You see, the party interest and the need to find polluting arguments for confrontation with their government has pushed them to collide with the rustest minds and the most reactionary elements in many cases. I would like to remind you that since 2010, when the period of infamous government self-restraint, which has been so destructive for the country, has remained unreserved? And why should this not be done at the level of self-government, an area of primary democracy and popular expression, where there should be a conception of cooperation, understanding, mutual assistance and partnership for the needs of local people? In the very least time that I want to talk about, what you say, how a municipality can be governed in which a mayor will have an enemy to him, politically speaking, a municipal council. There is a characteristic historical example. In March 1934 there were municipal elections and then the left won two municipalities. In one of these municipalities - the Serres - was before a mayor, who was set aside for various reasons and was re-elected. The mayor who succeeded him belonged to the Left, with a right city council. In the other municipality - Kavala - was the late Mitsos Paratsalidis. From the information we have had from historical experience, at that time we had the best governance in these municipalities, precisely because there was a completely different spirit. What, of course, was the reward of the left mayor? To refer to the known place of attendance for the left of that period to Agios Stratis. With this the power has been "kissed". I mentioned this because all the threats to the integrity of the municipalities serve a single purpose, namely the maintenance of the current conservative self-government, which, as you know, also acted as an electoral mechanism for the unsuccessful memory of two-partyism. That is where all these tribulations and dangers come from. And because you have lately forgotten about your renowned European orientation, take a look at Europe, to see that where we have the most successful people who face the people's needs and have decisive responsibilities, simple proportionately applies. I will say one more word, ladies and gentlemen, and I come from Stepma, because the debate and the conflict on the issue of electoral law, in my opinion, has covered everything that KLISTENIS brings, which, if it were to happen earlier, would have been a different situation in self-government. And one who has lived in self-government for several years and from various positions and has been prosecuted by you, the "protagonists" of local government. We were referred, as you know, to the Municipality of Thessaloniki with the question of the removal and charging of expenditure, because we applied legality. The court judgment justified the majority of the officials of the Municipality of Thessaloniki who held the Municipality of Thessaloniki and who, of course, had absolutely nothing to do with SYRIZA or were not recruited by us. Don't forget these. And I would remind you that during the period of our own governance we had repeatedly brought in provisions which we have relieved elected representatives, who belonged to your area, from the risk of persecution, because they had protected their staff and the functioning of their municipalities. And now you come here and tell us we're breaking up the municipalities. We do not dismantle the municipalities, but a regime that prevented self-government from breathing and had turned it into a demand of parliamentary offices or ministerial offices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u63	I will give the floor to the Minister, who wants to announce which parliamentary amendments he accepts. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u64	I would first like to refer to some of the ministerial amendments that have already been developed and accepted. What I am saying relates to the following amendments: Amendment No 1681 and special No 70 of the Ministry of Culture, Amendment No 1680, and Amendment No 69 of the Ministry of Labour, Amendment No 1683 and Special 72, as well as the amendment of the Ministry of the Environment No 1687 and of the amendment No 76, and Amendment No 1688 and of Amendment No 77 of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Amendment No 1689 and of a special amendment of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. The following parliamentary amendments are also accepted: the general number 1671 and the number 62, which relates to the A.K.I.A. programme, the general number 1668 and the number 60, which relates to the extension of the 'THESESH' programme, the general number 1667 and the number 59, the general number 1674 and the special number 64 - are the parliamentary amendments that have been shared and you have seen - the number 1666 and number 58, the general number 1686 and the number 75, the general number 1685 and the number 74, the general number 1682 and the specific number 71, as well as the amendment by Mrs Christophilopoulos with a general number of 1676 and a special number 66, with a legal addition - which I am tabling. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u65	I would ask that the legal improvement be distributed, so that colleagues can also know. We are now moving on with Mr. Constantopoulos. Here's Mr. Dritsa and Mr. Yakoumatos. Mr. Constantopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u66	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is one thing to note that the government is trying and striving consciously, targetedly and voluntarily to create events within or outside the House. She tries to escape from her deadlocks, but all she manages is to entangle the Greek people in new monuments with unbearable surpluses and greater tolerance when the problems of everyday life, unemployment, red loans are a loot in the neck of citizens. And they don't find any answers. Gentlemen of the government, with the painful measures for the economy, the acronyms in foreign policy and the arrhythmias in the field of health and education you have created a climate of indignation and anger in the Greek people and the promises, of course, of Thessaloniki, which the Greek people pay for today. Today, too, we are paying the cost of the plating government majority, which is an outstanding one that is moving between government wear and the molded parliamentary majority, which must constantly seek ways of working. This, ladies and gentlemen, is not progressive at all, it is not left at all. Let me remind you here that the PASOK governments have indelibly marked the spaces in both education and health and local self-government. The faith of the democratic party in administrative decentralisation, with the reinforcement of local government, is firm and remains stable. He was captured in the founding declaration of September 3rd forty-four years ago. We are proud of the decentralisation of the state to a first and second degree, to support the institutions with the CAP, with increased responsibilities that we have given the mayors and the former prefectures, and today the district rulers. Let me remind you that the first piece of legislation governing the PASOK, five months after it took office, was about decentralisation with Law 1935/1982. We, Minister, are proud of the cuts we have made. We have given the opportunity to become executives through local government, which have changed the fate and map of our country at all levels. Gentlemen of the government, you are obsessed. You try to build changes, destruct the foundations that support it, and that is dangerous. You are trying to spend the great changes of the PASOK governments with the "KADIKRIA" and "KARIKRATH". All you can do is blame the great reformer Klisthei. How else can we explain the three-year delay in the bill we're discussing? Appropriate, backward? How can we characterise it as an institution of direct participatory democracy, which you deceive of executive and short-lived legally? Instead of of course coding previous legislations, the Municipal Code and the "CALIKARAT", enter additional individual provisions. This alone is what you are doing, such as the articles of the bill concerning local referendums, mediation at local level and the electronic basis for recording the real estate of OTAs. We know very well about the area of local government, and I can assure you that the bill you bring has no purpose except to strengthen the few forces that you have as government in this area. The simple proportional system favours, in particular, minority groups. This favor, however, at this juncture, I would say that it can produce results that are detestable to the democratic space. It is a bill, Minister, regression, and this is reflected in the regulations on increased state control, the reintroduction of the four-year term, the establishment of communities. Here too, the dangers exist, and there are many. You're hitting the alarm bell on the CCTB. You're ignoring her. He tells you that with the new electoral law you will open the way to the forces of the extremes, that we will get to have powerful mayors with fragmented municipal councils. You are hitting the alarm by the Greek Committee of Regions. And you ignore her. He tells you that you do not make any substantial reform, you are simply introducing an electoral system, which brings division into local communities and insolence and transaction and artificial polarization. You have been severely criticised by both the WTO and the PSA - for the same reasons. You are bringing the breaking of Athens with an amendment. Let me remind you that it is our fixed position, the fixed position of the PASOK and the Democratic Reconciliation. And here comes a question: Minister, why don't you bring the right to vote to the Greeks abroad? I'm asking a question, Minister, listen. We agree with the fragmentation of the second Athens and the major regions, but one question is raised, Minister. What about the right to vote on the expatriates, the Greeks abroad? We're talking about it and it always goes backwards. So when are you gonna bring it? It's time. Bring it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u67	And that's what you're closing up with, Mr. Comrade. Say one last sentence.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, KLITHENIS is planning the new role of local government, which provides for the transfer of funds for local government, because what we need to do is to give resources at the same time as the responsibilities. Ladies and gentlemen, the Change Movement - whenever the local government elections take place - will give its own battle for strengthening decentralisation, administrative self-sufficiency, the economic self-reliance of local government. Ladies and gentlemen, our aim is to decouple the novels and populism and to unify the large area of the centre-left, which can give local self-government vision and perspective. It will be a battle of responsibility and respect for the institution. It will be a battle for citizens against amateurism and your unadulterated promises. Finally, I want to say, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that at any time leaving the wrong path, it is beneficial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u69	Mr. Dritsa has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would consider it a pointless and rude one if I did not express my thanks to the President of the CEDEFOP, Mr Patoulis, for the day before yesterday, he did honour me by phone and also invited me to participate in the current mobilisation of the government. Thank you. Unfortunately, miserable obligations will not allow me to respond to his invitation. I'm asking for his understanding. But there's another mechanism, a machine that works at all levels - partisan, self-government, business, communication - for the government to fall. Hey, the government won't fall! It is supported by the Greek people, no matter how much the Greek people are allowed to express themselves through this communication orchestra and confessing to communication superpower. We have heard yesterday that they are questioned by the Greek Government and that it is willing for the Greek Government to negotiate our borders with Albania. Now what can we invoke? The validity of the Commissioner's statement? It's incomprehensible. It's monstrous. As a monster it is automatically rejected. It can't be done. And yet, it is said in the House, on the channels, everywhere that the Greek Government can negotiate the border now in 2018. What can anyone say? There is, therefore, a mechanism for falling the government, but this is downgrading politics. He says PASOK and defends its tradition in reforms in self-government. In fact, until it reached the 'Kalikrati', which was not so democratic reform, it went into reforms incorporating the largest or most important part of the great historical self-government tradition of the Left and not just of the Koryskades, which Mrs Readstopoulou rightly recalled to tell us, but since the 1950s and the 1960s and the early post-government years. It is a huge tradition of democratic self-government, both in practice and in theory. The "CLOSHEN I" bill is the first step, as has been announced, to mature the conditions for "CLOSHEN II" and for total, truly, reform and deal at this stage with mature issues, i.e. preparation for "CLOSHICH II", correction of "COLICARAT", hydrocephalosis" - has hydrocephalosis identified by everyone - centralisation, alienation of the participation contribution and control. Such corrections have been made, much discussed over the past few years. Of course it raises the question of upgrading municipal and regional councils, a crucial issue, through the choice of mere analogy that is self-evident. The right one was never. A centralised majority system is the right-wing tradition. But PASOK, the Democratic Reconciliation, is that possible? That's disgusting. There may be arguments that this will lead to the encouragement of factories. Hey, let's drive. We'll deal with them too. When the wide-ranging democratic spectrum is involved, when all the voices are heard, when all the flowers blossom and have a role to play, will we be afraid of the five factors? Where do we live? Do we live in the milk? Of course, there may also be such phenomena. Is that what we can justify is that we are going to retreat into the selfishness of mere analogy? If that's possible! In this direction, and since, in fact, time is now suffocating, I would like to close with this: let the intent trial stop. If there are proposals and views of self-government upgrading, let them be said and judged on these criteria by Panos Skourletis. Otherwise, only to a democratic government and a democratic party, such as SYRIZA who plans, in fact, the future step by step through adversity, can account for such a legislative democratic initiative, such as 'CLINEN I', to follow 'CLISTIN II'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u71	We will continue with the last one that had been announced, Mr. Yakumato. Then Mr. Venizelos will be given the floor from yesterday. Mr Kyriazidis and Mrs Kavvadia will be followed, unless there is any mutual - I am learning - change. Then Mr. Theocharopoulos will speak. Mr. Yakumato, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say to Mr Dritsa that she will leave her right. People's social patriotic Right is the pillar of this nation. Look at what happened on the left today, which people say "never left again" from "first time left". That's what he's looking at, too. Because that is the mess - you have hammered everything - at all levels. You tried first to manipulate justice. After justice you went to the independent authorities. And you left yourself as a cherry at the balding cake of local self-government. Instead, Minister, bring in a bill that gives authority, solves the problems of self-government, such as the problem of seasonals, bring the bill on simple analogues, to dismantle the municipal council and cannot make a decision. Already, today, there are such phenomena. So you realise that with this simple analogue what destabilization is going to exist. Are you aware that today municipalities are the main cell of social policy? They've taken over a big piece. I'll tell you from my experience. There is the example of western Athens, Aigaleo, Peristeri, Agios Anargyroi, Liosia, Cameroon. Where poverty is. What's the municipality doing? It does the social grocery store, replacing the state, doing the social pharmacy and giving help to the poor. Of course, he does all this with the great help you ignore, of our Church, which helps most in these areas. Yesterday, Minister, I was sorry when I went to Cameroon, Saint Anargyros, Metropolis, etc. And there were thousands of people. Minister, two thousand people a day eat from the social pool at the Saints Anargyrus in Cameroon. Do you know what that means? That's why the Left won't see the white day. That's where you made the world resort to these things. And you brought the simple analogue to erase everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u73	Slow down!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u74	What can we do now? It's my voice like that. What am I supposed to do with it? Do you want me to starve her? Leave the transcriptions to be made. Leave a thousand two things. How will the majority work? With a transaction? With acrobatics? How can this lisverish stop with that mess you're bringing? How will the municipalities be run? You don't care. Besides, what you're interested in is the incredible politicism to determine the municipal elections. I was sure, and I was talking about it with the self-government that the elections will take place on 13 and 20 October 2019. Something didn't match you and you changed it. I hope you don't change it again, because you're constantly changing it. Whatever acrobatics you can do, whatever experimentation and do, however much trouble you cause, one thing is certain, that the people do not forget your action for three and a half years. Whenever there is an election, any system, whatever terminology you do, you're going to lose it. You have not brought measures on the transparency of the municipalities and on how the revenues will be paid. You had to open up the topic of contractors and solve the mess you caused with unfinished recruitments. Through your policy, you are attempting to dismantle the municipalities and bring chaos and lawlessness. But whatever you do, Mr. Skourletis, no matter how much you do the voter, no matter what you make up, one is certain. The people will give the answer, the people who want to live with dignity are asking for a job, asking for a minimum guaranteed income, not to turn it into a voyage and wait in line at the social grocery store. Take a walk down the west Attica, see how they're waiting for you with open arms. Come see the man who's in line with the double to get his pool. This is Left. That's why I've never left again!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u75	Mr Venizelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill with the progress of the debates has unfortunately evolved into a craftsman of institutional arts. The country, as shown by the latest movements of the government, entered a period of institutional manipulation. That is to say, what has been done for three years. The shorter this period of institutionalisation, the better for democracy, for society and for the economy, is therefore the shorter. Seeing the cheap and alternating games of the government majority in relation to local government, compared to the electoral system, compared to the election time that came back in May from the ideal point of October. Watching games with the office of local government bodies. Seeing the raw way in which the government undermines the institution of local government, making it weak to exercise its constitutional powers and serve local communities. Seeing that the municipal council is being altered, because the municipal council is not a small parliament, it is not a representative body, such as parliaments, national or state. The City Council is an active administrative body, a collective management body, which takes decisions by issuing administrative acts. So when these decisions cannot be taken and these administrative acts are adopted, the institution of local government is paralyzed. It is transformed into an institutional, political pressure, political transaction, but not into an institution that serves local society in a practical and effective way. So, seeing all of this, I imagine that you will all be aware of the great, the enormous importance of the speech made in the 2001 Review Constitution, when the 2/3 question of the direct amendment of the electoral system to the parliamentary elections was put in place. If this guarantee also existed in local elections, now the government could not do these cheap games of populism and undermining local government. I would say, however, that there is something even more serious. It highlights the enormous, irreplaceable importance of the Constitution, the formal and strict constitution, which is revised by a very specific procedure, that of Article 110, which requires two Bulgarians, the intervention of the electorate and an increased majority of 3/5 as a guarantee of the long-term relationship of democracy with itself, democracy with history and institutions. And I say this, because now that we have entered the age of institutionalisation, institutional tension, the next step will be the great game of the Revision of the Constitution, which concerns the incorporation of the guarantees of the Constitution, and which, as I have said many months ago, will also take the form of direct insulting the constitution of Article 110, with the organisation and announcement of a so-called consultative referendum on various popular issues linked to the Revision of the Constitution. Fortunately, the President of the Republic, as a member of the Opposition Party and a professor of Public Law, has already been expressly and unequivocally against the possibility of using the referendum procedure on issues related to the Revision of the Constitution. We haven't seen the scene with the triple election scenario in May 2019. It is not at all certain that this story can be reached by May 2019. We see what is happening in NATO with this comical image, the Prime Minister to celebrate the agreement with the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and her invitation to NATO under the terms of the agreement and the Minister of National Defence to tell the journalists from the NATO headquarters that the neighbouring country will never join NATO, because this celebrated agreement on the name and all the related issues will never come into force. It is this foreign policy picture, or do you think that what is happening in relation to the timetable for the possible ratification of the agreement by Parliament and therefore the break of the alliance, this incestuous alliance between SYRIZA and ANEL, has not affected the so-called parliamentary amendment of the 16 SYRIZA Members, who have amended and accepted Mr Skourletis, reinstated the elections of self-government since October in May. Obviously this is linked to the toys of the so-called divorce, so toys of artificial tension, which in fact undermines both foreign policy and democratic normality and the validity of institutions. And, of course, all this is linked to justice. We have now come to be 12 July, and we have not yet had a choice forty-five days ago for a new President of the Council of State. I want the government to know that because the courts - and in particular the supreme administrative court - have a long tradition - the Council of State, which is a birthplace of Eleftherios Venizelos in 1929, will see, if its choices are blackmailing choices, what it means to feel the dignity and independence of the judiciary at its highest level. Apart from that, we also have the silence in the government's reality on the major issue of the vote on the vote on the non-national citizens' vote. And when we say vote outside citizens, we mean the vote of the voters in the local polls, so the Greeks who have Greek citizenship and an active election right, as provided for in the Constitution in Article 54. In 2001, we amended Article 51(4) by making it easier for it to be implemented, that is to say, that the principle of the simultaneous holding of the elections means - especially for non-national Greek citizens - that there must be a simultaneous counting and communication of the result so that it can also be facilitated by consular posts, as is the case in the European elections and by the letter of vote, if we at some time join the electronic vote even more easily for Greek citizens abroad. Of course the 2/3 post-majority clause has been introduced, because when you change the composition of the electorate, you must in fact have a broad consensus, because this is where the conditions for the reproduction of democracy are judged. You can't decide with the usual majority. However, Article 51(4) is combined with the other provisions concerning the formation of the electorate and the exercise of the electoral right, i.e. Article 54. The region is a key criterion for the electoral system, the legitimate population is in any case the criterion for the formation of the electorate. Legislative population is the population of polling populations, which are now also electoral lists. The legal population as shown by the census - which is deemed to have been published within one year of its operation - is the one determining the number of seats in each region. The voters are therefore counted among the legitimate populations of each region and affect the number of seats in each region. So while it is very easy - even though the host countries allow it, and this can certainly happen in Europe with very ease - to organise consular sections or to organise the editorial vote for those who are, in fact, elected and not generally homogeneous of older generations, the electoral right must be exercised on the basis of the constituency. It cannot be held on a predominant note, because there is no predominant ballot and because the vote of the foreign voters affects the distribution of seats in the regions of the internal market regardless of the voting system. So, with regard to both the amendment and the proposal of the Law of Officers, the whole structure is simple and reasonable, except that everyone has to vote on the list of the region, just as the Chambers of Members in the parliamentary elections have been doing for years. We must look at this in conjunction with the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, which, at the level of the large part of the House, did not accept the appeal of Greek officials of the Council of Europe to exercise their right, to condemn the country because it did not guarantee them the exercise of their right, of course, under the implication that Article 51(4) will be activated in due course, and certainly for the countries - members of the European Union there is no problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u77	Mr President, we need to shorten this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u78	Imagine that three-fold elections will take place - let us say in May 2019 - and that the Greek citizen can vote in Brussels or Luxembourg for the European elections, but not for the national parliamentary elections. So there is not much time for fermentation and for avoidance, but we cannot make mistakes in relation to the interpretation of the Constitution and the use of fundamental concepts for which there was a great deal of confrontation in 2001, such as the concept of the region and the concept of the legitimate population. So let us get away from this morbid climate of extortion and the imperfection of institutions, let us speed up developments, because this will be a ransom for the country, for the economy, for the development and, above all, for our democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u79	Mr. Kyriazidis has the floor, and then Mrs. Kavvadia.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr President. "One of the main pillars of our democracy", you said, "it is also local self-government". That's how you're right. "But as we have already pointed out as SYRIZA, the institutional framework created by KALIKARATIS is suffocating and fully adapted to the aim of implementing neoliberal policies in the field of self-government. In addition, KALIKARATIS is not a single example only included in the Memorandum, but is an application of the guidelines of Lisbon, the White Paper and so on. 'The Left fights Europe against neoliberalism and its impact on the level of democratic institutions'. Now what Left of Europe do you speak of? You've been removed from Podemos, Die Linke. Melanson has recently mentioned the Left of Greece, for your President and so on. "The consequences of "KALIKARAT" in the institution of local government to a first degree not only at an economic but also democratic participatory level are already more visible. A key feature of the 'KALIKARAT' is the bureaucratic complexity and anti-democratic framework. So self-government is being blamed. You say to her that she has a campaign to convict the institution, that the Greek OTAs were supposed to be the most indebted, corrupt and mismanaged. That's what you were saying, comrades. In my question on Monday, which passed us to the representatives of the first and second grades of self-government, if some of the proposals in this infamous dialogue - consultation have been heard over the last two and a half years with meetings at meetings, in fact, and the first and second levels have tabled documented proposals in the debates you have been having on your own but also in the committee where the bodies were called. What does it say and what do they say if the proposals were accepted and to what percentage? "I would say that the percentage is minimal. I said it before. I think this is the first time that a bill comes, which has virtually no proposal from the Central Association of Municipalities of Greece. This is unprecedented and unprecedented.’ That's what Mr. Patoulis said, Mr. Agathastos. And Mr. Simpson, from the point of view of the mayors of the country, says: 'According to whether the Ministry has adopted some proposals, I can say a few'. Everyone mentioned three but also the attempt to guide local self-government. So what are you talking about in the sense of selfishness? You will tell me that these are said here in the sense that they belong to a particular area, but more than 90% of local government, even from your own area, is opposed to this bill. But also those workers who, in fact, are the dominant and central references to be made. "The content of the reform being discussed was predetermined and the game was set," the workers say. That is not what the representatives of local government, who are controlled or directed by you, say that, and I am tabling all this to you. What did SYRIZA say in the previous European elections to self-government? He said we are sending a message of confusion to society, what will follow, what will vote on. Then you said it as an opposition. You are now driving all the procedures relating to elections to a date, if you wish, so that this message, that the citizens' disposition is distorted to that extent, which you are primarily planning and aiming, and of course, at state control. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Specific articles concerning, if you wish, the supervisor in the finances of the municipalities, indicate that everything is under the Minister. Even the Ministry of Interior on local government matters may issue a circular of directives on the correct and uniform adaptation to existing institutional provisions and others.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u81	Mr. Cryazides, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u82	Seven independent OTA services are recommended below, which are decentralised services of the Ministry of Interior. The appointment of all this depends on the Minister. In other words, everything is at the service of today, it's supposed, government, so that it does its own state in every way. Minister, in conclusion, I must note as a Macedonian that you have issued Macedonia, you are attempting to issue the Northern Continent as well. You are prejudicial to the national economy and dangerous to the homeland.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u83	Mrs Cavvadia has the floor and, as I have said, Mr Theoharopoulos as a parliamentary representative and we will continue with three colleagues, Mr Loverdos, Mr Aristotle, Mr Lappa and Mr Javaras. Mrs. Cavadia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been thinking a lot about whether or not I will have one of the few minutes at my disposal for my current position, of commenting on what has been heard in this Chamber yesterday by the rapporteur of the New Democracy, who has not been too much nor too much to blame us for our past, by attacking us as communist as we have done and our ideological obsessions - his words - on simple analogues and democracy. I must confess to you that listening to him was no surprise, because what is the title of honor for us cannot be touched at any time by someone who carries in his luggage such an axe past, someone who was appointed secretary of the youth of ENPEN by George Papadopoulos himself and someone who, in his statement, has as a model the racist and xenophobic National Front of Jean-Marie Lepenn. So we accept the accusations. And I have to tell you that we feel very proud and proud of them. However, if we want to be honest, we must recognise in the Civic Opposition that it is absolutely right to protest and rise, because, in fact, by establishing a mere analogue and abolishing the distortion of the will of citizens, we put an end to the opacity of so far, we put an end to the customer's use of self-government power, we dismantle micro-target networks and personal pursuits. It makes sense, then, that the New Democracy that is based its policy, precisely in the perception of the client, feels like the carpet is being pulled under its feet. Ladies and gentlemen, in fact, the electoral systems are not neutral. They affect the electoral behaviour, the results, the way in which they exercise command, the degree of citizens' participation, the quality and depth of democracy. They promote or undermine political morality. They promote social dialogue or contempt for social consensus. The electoral system can be an obstacle or a propulsional force to corruption phenomena. We, such as our permanent position, abolishing the deformative and cognitive system that was in place until yesterday and allowing mayors with 25% or even 18% of the votes in the first round, to have 60% of the seats on the municipal council, we are consciously choosing programme commitments, public co-operations, instead of the behind-the-spot and heterogeneous alliances which were carried out in the majority of the seconds around the country's self-government elections. By establishing a simple analogue - we do not hide it - we seek to incorporate in the self-government setting citizens who have been abducted in previous years by malformation in the functioning of the municipalities, we aim to activate local reasoning, we want to renew the political scene and take the wheel of self-government from the hands of professional actors and actors. That is what Mr Voridis calls in power, meaning that he is overturning the regime that offers oxygen to the complex, meaning that the power of one should be collectively allocated, that self-government decisions should henceforth meet the requirement of social consensus and not the condition of apathy and passivity, as was the case until yesterday. We, yes, admit it, want to activate political participation, welcoming the spread of responsibilities, decisions, accountability to the people. We are deeply convinced that democratisation is the solution and not the problem. Our social vision is on the opposite side of the unloving centralism that is engaged in neoliberalism. Our difference, gentlemen, is profoundly ideological. We do not want to patronise local communities, but we want to liberate them, take responsible and actively the governance of their lives, clash and get rid of unfair interests and establishments. And it is, in fact, a pity that we have not been able to discuss not only the four articles that are, unfortunately, of interest, but also the two hundred and thirty-six with which the bill solves very big problems over decades, which we cannot, for example, highlight as much as we should, the positive step in the quota of women in the ballots that is increasing to 40%, a major victory in the feminist movement towards promoting women's balanced participation in political decision-making centres or implementing the budget, a commitment that the Minister had made months ago, during a timely question that I had tabled and which we are happy to see now as many others. Ladies and gentlemen, I am closing down with this - and with this bill - as with the corresponding Ministry of Labour voted yesterday - the vertical line of the two different logics that exist in this Chamber is clearly demonstrated, and it is the moment that each and every one of us has to make its own choices. Empathetic with democracy, yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u85	Mr Theocharopoulos, Parliamentary Representative of Democratic Independence, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u86	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have in front of us a bill which corresponds to the needs of a modern and European society, as it should be. It does not testify to any real progressive incision, it does not promote reforms that have been debated for years in society and which are now proposals by the vast majority of self-government officials. This is a bill that does not release, does not open self-government in the future. Its main features are fragmentation and contempt, because the main interest in the bill is not self-government, but the working confrontation of various issues relating to self-government and the central political scene. Before I refer to a number of points in the bill, I would like to highlight three points in relation to today's debate. The first issue which was raised in detail yesterday in the debate is the amendment brought by sixteen members of the SYRIZA last night, which says that it changes what you have been telling us for a year that self-government should not be carried out together with the European elections. An obvious goal is to have elections together, possibly four-fold, if Mr Tsipras does not change his mind by then. Tooling for a crucial issue. In fact, the Members also substantially amend their amendment in the morning to sit on the day of the European elections. Minister, I refer to a debate we had here in Parliament last July 2017. I have the minutes of the House. When you referred to this design, I told you attributes: 'I heard you with one argument that you would transfer the self-government from spring to autumn, so that they would not fall along with the European elections'. I read from the minutes of the House. "My position is that in the end he will do what he wishes to do on this matter, as on other issues, Mr. Tsipras. He may even ignore your own position and suggestion in this matter, depending on how the situation is at the time. In order to achieve the lowest defeat in the election campaign, he will do whatever is of interest to him. It is therefore appropriate to keep a small basket on this subject.’ I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point the Member, Mr Athanasios Theocharopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] That is exactly what happened with a cynicism - because it is cynicism - when you argue about a matter that is constantly under discussion and an amendment that changes all this argument is coming. Whatever you do in any case, citizens understand, they have knowledge and judgment. I am going to go further to the partition and the amendment to which you refer. The Democratic Reconciliation, the Change Movement is in favour of the fragmentation of the major constituencies and of course of the Second Athens, because they are huge constituencies. It is therefore a principle of the progressive party, which we firmly support. The Change Movement does not decide its position on the basis of political costs or temporary party benefit but on the basis of national interests. We have supported this position from the outset, supported it in the committees, supported it publicly and I hope it will be legislated today. The New Democracy has been ambiguous and ambiguous. I hope that it will be the final attitude we have put to the committees. We have seen another attitude in the committees, to listen to others today and yesterday. I also hope that the partitioning issue will proceed. I come to the third issue with regard to the demigrants, a matter that we, too, are putting forward by the Qualified Opposition and other parties, and in which, Minister, you once again show how you are parting and not bringing your proposals together. First of all, we must practically express our respect for the Greeks abroad and ensure the possibility of participation in the elections of hundreds of thousands of Greeks who have left because of the economic crisis in recent years. Are you bringing the amendment and, in fact, what are you saying? You say that there will be a committee, which in five months' time will bring the proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u87	That's what Mr. Venizelos said before.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u88	Mr. Venizelos? You didn't hear him well. You don't notice the speeches. I have analysed exactly how it should be done from both a legal and a political point of view, Mr Lappa. What we are telling you is that this preparation should have already been done - the bill of simple analogy, when it came, and the fragmentation and the subject of de-democratic Hellenism - together to discuss them uniformly. Aren't they all about a single electoral system? We tell you we're in favour of partitioning, but why should we discuss fragments every five months every six months? Why isn't there the readiness to see everything together? On the bells, you'll take it. It will never come until the end of your term of office. That's the problem. I now come to the change of the electoral system with a bizarre version of the mere analogy and the way in which the mayors and regional authorities are shown and the establishment of self-government bodies, which occupy most of the bill. With regard to development planning, competences, strengthening of resources, decentralisation, reducing bureaucracy, citizens' services, reforming at least the system of governance of municipalities and regions, and no reason. Mayors and regional directors in most cases will emerge in the second round, after you anticipate 50 + 1 for their election, they will be found to form municipal and regional councils, with advisers being fully proportionate in the first round. Decisions on the daily lives of citizens will probably be blocked by self-government incentives and without any security barriers. Self-government differs from the central political scene. There is not even the possibility of new elections if there is a dead end. If we have a dead end in the central political scene, we go to elections again. If there's a dead end in self-government, what happens? That's why we need security rigs and they don't exist. No one disputes that the existing system has distortions and must be made more proportionate. That is our position, but you are creating new deadlocks. You bring it to the other end. It is not our position to return to the previous situation, in which the New Democracy is probably mentioned when it says 'I will abolish and simply restore the former'. We need a more proportionate system. In almost all European countries, however, even in the most proportional systems first, a rate of entry into the self-government bodies ranging from 3% to 5% is applied, and they are formed in proportion to the percentages of each component, the first being to indicate the mayor or regional director. It is thus clear that distinguishing roles of administration and opposition can be carried out and programmatically converging. This is how you drive self-government to new deadlocks. Progressive policy, a left-wing policy - because I heard it - would be if you promoted the prospect of self-government, independently of the parties. You are doing exactly the opposite, moving on the basis of micro-participatory purposes. This is a working concept of politics and self-government. Also a central issue and a timeless one is the emancipation of this self-government by the suffocation of the state. Instead, your bill provides for three levels of control of self-government by the central state, pushing self-government from hugging to full suffocation. You provide for a Board of Supervisors of the ATTs and a Coordinating and Control Committee for the entire operation of the municipalities and regions and for the disciplinary control of the mayors, regional authorities and other representatives with direct dependence on the Minister of the Interior. In common with the rule of law, the central administration will be able to cancel the initiatives of the LAGs or the mayors and regional authorities that are not appropriate. Of course, as you are thinking of, nor did it come to your mind that the supervision of TAs could be exercised by establishing an independent authority, responsible for controlling the legality of TAs. Your relationship and sympathy for the independent authorities are known. I don't control them, so I don't want them. Today's bill is counter-reforming and conservative in some parts, for example by reconstituting communities that are straight back in previous decades with the short-term service of local interests and small-scale transactions. And to gold out the pill, you institutionalize municipal and regional referendums, people's participation. Of course, the referendums can also be used and play their part in certain issues of local interest.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u89	Decisively.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u90	But what's the problem? The contempt and ambiguity of the arrangement may be worse than the results sought. The initiative to hold a referendum may, you say, have a competent but not a forbidden number of voters of the relevant OTA. How is that number defined? What influence will the referendum have? Consultative referendums are also provided for issues which do not belong to the narrow competence of the municipalities or regions. How will this whole system work properly and efficiently when, on the one hand, we have councils striving to end up in a decision - I tell you the dangers of measuring them on the issue of security doubles - and on the other hand, we will have groups of citizens seeking to block certain decisions through the pressure that may be applied in a referendum? And what about incitements by extreme groups? Immediate democracy is a good thing, but in today's conditions it should be studied, documented, with insurance in order to be effective. The proposed arrangements are vague and incomplete. Where is the other great and time-consuming demand from the Left - why did we hear Mr Skourletis speak about the Left - about real decentralisation by transferring resources and responsibilities? Not even a new competence is transferred to self-government. You claim that it requires constitutional revision. That's what we heard. First of all, you had announced it, and two years ago, in paramilitary activities, and you forgot about it. We have brought forward a concrete proposal for the House, which you did not go forward with. In your familiar way, you also refer this to the bells. You know well that there are responsibilities that can be transferred without constitutional revision. You didn't dare that either. Why don't you dare? I am giving responsibilities, and I am giving a little power, I do not have complete control. That's what you don't like. As for these resources, they are on a reverse path from self-government to the central state with the forced commitment of all LGBs with the majority of municipalities already in difficulty. How will the children's stations work? How will the social services and actions that the weakest need them work? This is why municipalities are useful, which is why the years of the crisis have done a serious social role, because they are next to the citizen. And where there are social services, in whatever municipalities, they really work. They have played an important role, which the state should channel resources to these municipalities and to these social services, because it cannot do all the central state. Of course, how will the debts of the development companies, for example, be borne by you? Unless your position is 'let them cut their throats and find solutions'. Because I don't have any more time, I'll tell you this as well. You are tabling various amendments at the last minute. This shows how you operate. You are tabling an amendment to the Labour Inspectorate for uninsured work. Your curiosity is proven by the fact that we had discussed this matter a while ago. You are tabling the amendment to the mobility of JEP officials so that they can be regulated by amendment, so on the last day, without seeing all these matters seriously. We also have seven months extensions and an amendment from the Ministry of Shipping thirty-five pages. Last night. This way of legislating you go on at all. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to end by saying that this bill does not constitute a reform for self-government. Instead of promoting the constitutionally guaranteed self-sufficiency and independence of self-government, it is subjected to the suffocation of the state. It has no development and social dimension, and it is obvious that there is no operational plan for implementing the changes. SYRIZA's electoral purposes have an absolute priority in this bill on the problems of self-government and country. That is why we are voting against.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u91	Mr. Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u92	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in this Chamber, I have repeatedly stated that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has nothing to do with making arrangements that are supposed to serve the party interests of both partners. Now when you see each other, you recognize the other, and when you recognize the second one, you see the first one. They've ruined the economy. You've ruined the economy. You have brought serious blows to the institutions. You've taken off the private economy with the free professions. At least leave foreign policy issues aside. What we learned yesterday at a closed meeting of a think tank, Commissioner Johannes Khan, is particularly problematic for the country. Because Mr. Khan's disguise and repair is worse than what we've been reading. He said if he knew there was a microphone, he wouldn't say it. Is there any information about the content of the negotiations between Greece and Albania, which none of us have here, nor do the majority Members have? There are two theories and rumors. One of the fact that the agenda includes many things, and the other that only discussions in maritime areas are mentioned. None of us know more than that. Did Commissioner Johannes Khan know? So don't give up on those issues. Let it go. And that is what you are treating, as today you are treating with this draft law with the institutions. Because in addition to what was said yesterday about the inconsistencies, on Tuesday until late night, you supported the elections in May. And first of all, Mr. Skourlet, who has nothing to do with him. First of all, however, he has long supported it. And within a few hours does he support two amendments himself instead of resigning? I have nothing personal, but this is the institutional course of things. You should have left. And because you are a friend of your party and a believer, to vote here as a MP. But not introduce it. Introduce both the A and the Omega. In any case, going further, it is the content of these amendments that are supposed to bolt Greek citizens with the four supposed polls. If that's the case. No one's confusing. And it is degrading for the Greek people to say that he does it to channel the people's men's men's men's men's men's men and so on. When you're tanned with good, you'll be tanned to any poll you put in front of the Greek citizen. But manipulation allows for a hard characterization. That's a tough characterization. These things, Mr President, make them institutional socks. And socks means grabbing with messy violence. It doesn't mean anything else. You've been grabbing with unscrupulous violence. In this context - and I am closing down with this - it is also the amendment to partitioning Athens, which I shall vote on. We will have a roll-call vote to see whether we are two hundred or not, so that it will apply from now. I'll vote for it. But I must stress this to you, too, that if anyone wants to make electoral law, because regions are part of the electoral law, it makes it a single and electoral system and regions. It does not make them individually and in phases that are curious, seeking to get this party together the other one and does not stand only in the second Athens and the rest of Attica, maintaining the madness and inconsistencies that have existed for decades. They vote you in Glyfada and not in Voula and in Vouliagmeni, they vote you in Kifisia and not in Drosia. What are these things? By the way, you should have seen all Attica and all Greece. Can we have electoral systems based on small, medium-sized and large regions? A rule should have existed. And that is why if it were adopted by the Opposition, by us the fixed position that I support in the election campaign, a few months before the elections - whether it is now or is now in May, the government knows that - the opposition must never say 'yes'. But since other criteria prevail, and at times we have voted on various proposals by the government, it cannot, at least, be that I am a Member of this region, and I have been elected so many times, to say no, even if it is done in the anti-institutional way, even if it is done in this messy way and not rationally, you cannot say that the electors need their representatives closer, and that is why I will vote for it. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u93	Mr George Aristotle has the floor, then Mr Lappas will be followed by the Parliamentary Representative of New Democracy Mr Constantine Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is the product of systematic study and processing as well as a long and extensive consultation with all stakeholders. It promotes necessary reform interventions, it is part of a wider reform effort in the field of local government, which starts but does not stop here. The proliferation of financial aid, the specific funding programmes, the 2017 multiplier plan that came to resolve a number of self-government issues, demonstrates, among other things, the Government's practical interest in supporting local government. At the core of this bill is the democratisation of the way the authorities organise and operate their administrations. In this direction, it is essential to introduce the electoral system of the mere proportional nature. It is regrettable, however, that even the perpetrators of the mere proportional parliamentary and self-government stand today. Where the wind blows, i.e. the opposition wind, the wind that has lured them and their like-minded kilometers away from logic, because it is the least senseless and conspicuous and micro-particular and damaging to fight with a mere zeal a deep democratic intersection. In the name of a hypothetical efficiency with real incentive not to disturb the acquired and to keep the ticks in their place, by introducing the electoral system of mere analogy that runs the system of governance and the individual functions of the municipalities and regions, it puts an end to the one-parallel ownership logic, ending in a system of deformation that undermined every sense of representativeness in the expression of the electorate. Democrat dialogue and the search for consensus have now become necessary for decision-making. All parties shall be put before their responsibilities and must make substantial criticism. So only local affairs are managed effectively when the processes that lead to decision-making ensure that they enjoy wider social acceptance. Incomplete, inter alia, failures in the current legislative framework and the extensive combination of the municipalities' central choice of 'KALIKARAT', while at the same time providing for institutional counterweights to ensure that representation is enriched. In this way, the sense of citizens' proximity to local government has been undermined and centrifugal forces have been strengthened. These distortions come to cure this bill by upgrading the role of communities and regional units. Upgrading local and regional consultation committees, categorising municipalities not only at a declaratory level but also by devising a clear framework for their distinct administrative and budgetary treatment, setting up a separate OTA supervisory services, establishing and fully regulated by the provisions of this Act of referendums both locally and at regional level, establishing the municipal and regional ombudsman that is the evolution of the existing and many inapplicable institutions of the constituent, improving the development and economic functioning of the self-government organisations through an extensive grid of regulations, are coming to cure distortions and pathogens of the current legislative framework. Our reformist effort doesn't stop here. This draft law is a starting point, with decentralisation which involves deepening democracy and widening the involvement of citizens. This is a difficult and demanding project that requires holistic approaches to respond to the multi-dimensional concept of decentralisation. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the Vice-President of Parliament, Ms. MARios GEORGIADIS.]] Unfortunately, the extreme right-wing turns of Officer Opposition on the path of constant ideological identity, the mandatory and undermining of the excellent performances of government policy recently appeared Euroscepticism, the nationalist omissions that have led it to confront itself and its own political positions and choices so far make it difficult and reduce any possibility of substantial and fertile dialogue. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Once again, in the debate on the current bill, she chose to follow the logic of polarization and division, to collide harmoniously, in her favourite habit, with synergy interests and anachronistic and conservative ideologies. Nevertheless, with the pure and irreversible exit from the memorial era, at a rate of growth at the highest levels since the beginning of the crisis, with the rate of unemployment falling steadily, it is now clear that the country has entered a new orbit, and this is recognised at an international and European level in the spirit of Anti-Population, which has lost the slightest trace of cooling, does not hesitate to undermine the historic success of the Greek Government and the Greek people. Destructive, false news, polarization and division are the only elements that have contributed to the public debate so far. In any case, we continue to think about solving problems and implementing key reforms in all policy areas. Our central option is fair growth on the basis of democratic choices, which aim to re-establish the state on the basis of the values of transparency, dignity and respect for labour and social rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, my colleague. Mr. Lappa, you have the floor for five minutes. Then Mr. Javarras will take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr President. We knew that large, serious, deep pathogens of the political system reached their credibility in nadir and this gray veil that saw it spread now to society. These days we realised that the country's administrative system is severely ill in general. We have heard the leading representative of the CEDEFOP independent institution, calling on the Greek people to break down the government, in order to break down this legislative initiative. On the same day, Mr Voridis, we heard your colleague say that Mr Mitsotakis' first concern will be the collapse of the overall legislative work around the self-government system. We have heard your Chief often say that he will break down our initiatives in health, education, social security, public administration. Eventually last night when I was going to my house to see the football match, I saw a sign that reads: "Technical Society of Demolition". You're probably a company, a political party and a general demolition. You're gonna tear everything down. Hey, leave something up. I heard your representatives, Mr Javarra, Mr Vorides, who are colleagues, and I would like our confrontation to be mild. We are talking about the dilemma of self-government elections, because they are part of the administrative system, central administration, region. I want you to tell us something about this Bemperian, Max Webber, an administration system that has prevailed in the mid-19th century in Europe. How's your party doing? How does it express its own administrative reason strictly for the public administration, for the regional administration? I have not heard you mention anything, ladies and gentlemen, the basic nuclear principle of Max Webber on the state's political neutrality. It was precisely this lack that was built in Greece that this incredible depth of intensity and size of a client system was built. I remember from a small child a political office right next to my office, where when the MP returned to his district, queues of endless people were formed with demands to serve themselves within this millstone of the client system. That's why you don't talk about it. This legislative initiative may have its good effects, it may have its bad effects. But it has a target, and it tells you that it wants to restore some basic principles of a rationalisation of public administration as a whole. We're talking about regional administration. So let's see what her problems are. The first major problem, ladies and gentlemen, whether you say it or not, is the huge crisis of representation confessed by political analysts, by the philosophers of political science, by the politicians, by the leaders of the parties all, within, days, two days, public administration conferences, recognise it as a basic problem. And if you do not respond to this basic problem, in the representation crisis, everything else is unnecessary. Because you can't build in the sand palaces. It can't be done! You have not said anything in that either, Mr Voridis, or in your contributions to the committees or yesterday I have heard you say something. Is it not the representative crisis that also involves a crisis of democracy, which is increasingly demobilising more and more socially from politics? What is it that characterises the demobilization of large social strata from the political system and the idea of politics? That is exactly what the representative crisis is all about. And you don't have a medicine. What do you suggest? No, no, no, demolition, destructive. Tell us specifically what you're suggesting. How do you want the administrative pyramid to be built up and rationalized in our country? How? In what way? More and more initiatives and more power in central government? We say, therefore, that the electoral system is responding to a very large degree not entirely on these issues. Everything is judged in the result. As in natural science, the experiment is like this. So let it work. Because if you look too far into tradition, you will see that when the simple analogue has been applied and we have had a great deal of public participation in its affairs and control, indeed, local administration has worked not just well, and they say - I have read the findings of a conference of the EMCDDA, of the Public Administration Inspectorate - that it has ensured in the darkest, most difficult times for the country and for social cohesion. You don't want to hear us. Please tell us after the 1950s your Europeans, even the European People's Party - I address both Mr Theocharopoulos and Mr Loverdos - your social democrats, what initiatives have they taken for local government? There is no state in Europe, all the geographical map, which exists other than the analogue system. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Indeed, once the analogue system has been established and cultures of cooperation, convergences, partnerships, etc. have been created, it has been ensured as a lasting remnant of simple analogy - to see what simple and undetermined analogy is - the indirect election of the mayor, so that the mayor and the district mayor are, indeed, members of the board. You know that the mayor with these electoral systems is not a member of the municipal or regional council, and that is why they do not vote. It's about what we say, Mr. Voridis, that husbands are not related. Kind of like this. People don't get it. When I told a client that "you know, the husband is not related to the wife," he went crazy. That's it, that's the concepts. The mayor and the district mayor shall not participate as members of the board of directors. That's why they don't vote. And I shall end with something, Mr President, to know what we are talking about and what we are talking about. KALIKARATIS was clearly a final, positive step, at least in terms of intentions to reform the regional administration. Here is what the explanatory statement in 'KALIKARATIS' says and I shall end, Mr President: 'The objective of the KALIKARATIS programme is the reconstruction of the state, which will restore the confidence of the citizens'. He'll recover it in 2010. Here we have a problem with regard to citizens' confidence. It does not exist and should be developed with the 'CALL'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u97	Mr. Lappa, if you please, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u98	I shall conclude, Mr President. Here comes the report of legal consequences and says: "The purpose of the "KALIKARATIS" programme is reflected in the rationalisation of the organisation and functioning of the state, development planning and provision of services to citizens, etc. and the strengthening of democratic processes at local and regional level". That was the target. In other words, it has contributed to the success of serious regional intervention by strengthening and ensuring democracy at local and regional level. That is not what the 'Kalikratis' did. He took democracy and left it in everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u99	Mr. Lappa, finish it up. You've arrived seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u100	I shall conclude, Mr President. And can I tell you something? Do we double first draw up a plan for how the municipality will be efficient and, in the end, democracy issues or vice versa? It's just a matter of thinking. For you it's the first. For us it's the second one. And if you want, I'll tell you something. Mr Venizelos is not here, who wrote biblicals in June 2015 for simple proportionalness in all manifestations of social, political and self-government life. Today 'yes, but'. Anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u101	Come on, Mr. Lappa, finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u102	I'll give a picture and then I'll finish, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u103	But finish, why do you speak seven and a half minutes. We can't do this anymore. We have to finish today.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u104	I'm done. Belgium, Denmark, Ireland, Norway, the Netherlands, Sweden, Finland have an absolute system of simple proportional and indirect election of mayor. A majority system of only a thousand inhabitants and a simple proportional system to all others have England, Scotland, Wales, France. An absolute system of inappropriate and simple analogous exists in the Netherlands and in all the Länder of Germany since the 1950s. And the administrative system works centrally and regionally, even when they have no governments. This is the great success of the major initiatives at the local and regional level. Do you know why you don't want to? Because with simple analogue and loss of power of central government, you are feeling remorseful. That's your point.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr. Lappa. Mr Javarras, New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, has been speaking for twelve minutes. Immediately after we continue the list of five speakers, and then Mrs Vaki will have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, my previous colleague has dealt with many of the issues that are not mentioned in this bill, and of course, Mr Minister, in that sense, he has helped you to relieve us of the burden of understanding what you are proposing with this bill, always with regard to local government. Because, Mr Lappa, in fact, simple analogue is a matter. However, this simple proportional system is an electoral system which is the means of organising, setting up and operating an administrative system that Article 102 of the Constitution defines as local government. If, at this stage in our history, there is a diagnosis of the representation crisis - which exists - this crisis of representation is certainly also fuelled by such contributions, like the one you have previously attempted, to create a confusion about the precedent of the instrument of purpose. It is the well-known problem of media autonomy to the ends, of the autonomy of the types with regard to the substances. Right here, Minister, you will allow me to tell you that I agree with Mr Lappa. In fact, what one can say today is that your Government is suffering from is from the basic principle of modernity, which is precisely the obligation of a worthwhile neutrality of the state. What you obviously cannot be proud of is exactly the opposite of what you said, Mr Lappa. The state in the era of governance by SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks, today, at this stage does nothing but adopt the most forward-looking forms of political power, which is serving some goals, identifying the state with society. You divide, Mr Lappa, society into friends and enemies, precisely because you have adopted the violation of this principle of neutrality within you. Because the state, as you know, after the bourgeois revolution serves the general interest, not part of it, does not make class policies, it is not a class state. And here, of course, you give me the opportunity to find out what is your main weakness in dealing with the problems of the country. And I am referring to local government, because Article 102 of the Constitution, Mr Lappa, which organizes local government as a form of administration of local affairs, what it believes is liberal democracy. It has an ideology for this Constitution and it's liberal. But you cannot serve it, because you are state-run, because you are today expressing in the political things of Greece the most disgusting form of archaic governance, which is stateism. A state that has no limits, a state that considers the state to be a father, a master and a protector of all, this state that has never been in the last three centuries in civilized humanity has but followers of this form of the Left, which has been condemned by history and now is a past. So at the moment, with this bill, you are doing nothing more, Minister, than trying to rectify the state of state, which has led us to the economic disaster. Because that is what you represent today and nothing else. So you cannot understand what the Citizens' Counsel tells you, the Scientific Report of the Parliament tells you that, in the context of the purpose, which is legitimate in the Constitution, of having strong and effective institutions of self-government in order to ensure the proper and effective functioning of selfgovernment and therefore of decisions to administer local affairs, to this end you are self-evident in the function of simple proportional. And you come here and offer us a simple analogue when everyone expects from you the new system. You have supposedly deleted a dividing line with the previous ones, to make a way out of the problems that concern local government. These problems, ladies and gentlemen, are to find forms of operation of the institutions of self-government that are in the most modern way in response to today's needs, in this debt, in this task of self-government, to resolve the local affairs, but also the state assumptions that have been entrusted to these institutions. We heard here about Corischades, we heard about communities, we heard and even read in your bill allegedly bring back the term "Community", because it is loaded semantically with pieces of the cultural and social history of the country. But that's not the job of legislating. But that's not the debt you have to bring in bills here to regulate private and social relations. Here you do not offer yourself or your complacentness, because you are the Left that you have for history a metaphysical conception that only you understand. But you must finally land in reality, you must solve problems of the place and do not accumulate them, do not throw them from here and from there, always showing that you have one who is identified with the cumulative problem of this country. History is not a metaphysical case. History has no purpose or end. History is a matter of everyone. Of course, Minister, you should understand what happens when you call, for example, the municipal compartments, which, under the Code of Municipalities and Communities, had received this term and then called the municipal communities, today communities are supposed to say that you are giving a communal form, a lust signifying to institutional cells that have no self-government function. Why, tell me, do these communities appear as decentralisation units and not as self-government agencies? So what's the point? Why don't you explain to us what the community's powers are? So what you're doing here is bringing a number of makeups to a party story that you've experienced with alpha or the beta way and you're trying to make a history of the place. That's never gonna happen. I will give you two remarks. You have Article 68 to which you are entitled by decision of the mayor alone to be nominated vice mayor by the party, which is not the majority that voted on condition, of course, that this decision be adopted by a majority of the councillors of this party who are not a majority. Is that a democracy? That's what it looks like.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u107	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u108	The "absolutely" I don't understand where it came from, but it's so "absolutely" that no one can understand, because it has nothing to do with reality. Because if you were to throw a eyelid on what the Scientific Committee of the Parliament tells you, you would see that the distribution of posts is not a matter for any joint legislator, because it is precisely the duty of the joint legislator not to legislate as he wishes, but to respect the constitutional principles of equality of electoral rights and the greatest possible popular representation in the institutions of the administration. It is precisely these principles that you are violating the way you say that you are defending them when you talk about strengthening representativeness through the introduction of mere proportionality. Simple analogue yes, you bring her in the way you bring her, but at the same time this simple analogue violates another recognised principle, which is the principle of effective resolution of local affairs by local government agencies. That's not what the New Democracy says. That's not our idea. This is necessary and in this need you will have to adapt. That is why, Mr Lappa, and a number of decisions of the Council of State - for example, numbering you - which exist in the Scientific Committee's report, 3684, 3685, 3686 and 3687/2009, have dealt with this issue. These decisions, when they were dealt with under the rule of the Code of Conduct, indicate whether it is compatible with the principles of equality of electoral rights and their greatest representation in the institutions of local government, the fact that the combination that took 42% has been strengthened by 3/5 of the seats as a success. There, therefore, the Plenary Assembly of the Council of State, which has then been ratified by these rulings and by the plenary decisions of the Supreme Special Court, said that the purpose of establishing institutions of effective and orderly functioning in the local government is legitimate constitutional and with regard to this institution is legal and constitutionally tolerated, that is to say, that local administration, through such an electoral procedure, may not be diverted into and impaired in opportunistic agreements of a temporary nature, but in this combination, which enjoys the confidence of the Greek people and does not suffer from a deficit of representation, on this basis, to enable it to implement the programme approved by the people.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u109	Mr. Javarra, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u110	This is democracy. What we have heard about democracy, which no one can understand, when you are speaking in the title of this bill in order to strengthen representativeness, and most of you who have produced it from this Step mean direct democracy, democracy in the sense that you are trying to reconcile it - you will allow me to say the word - using the flagrant name of Klisthei, to tell us how much this reform is possible, Minister, forgive me, but also on this point you have failed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u111	Mr. Javarra, you're done with this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u112	I shall conclude, Mr President. Because, as I would like to say to my fellow Member, Mr Emmanoulidis, Klistheis did reform democratically, but reform of Pisistrat's tyranny in a democratic city. You didn't receive any tyranny. You have received a democracy liberal and you are trying to make it Soviet. Hey, no one's gonna let you do that! And the worst thing, of course, is - and you should have it in mind - that Clisthene was descended from the Alkmeonid genus. He was an aristocratic genus and you should know that this genus is historically responsible for the Cylon Agos. For such an eagle you will once be responsible, and you will also be responsible for the way you govern this place.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr. Javarra. Mr. Dimitras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u114	Mr President, I would ask the floor for a minute's clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u115	Wait, Mr. Deiaras. Minister, you have the floor to explain the explanation. I can't deprive you of your word.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to remind Mr Javarra, who, through the ostrich, each time he is occupied, obviously forgot about it, although I imagine he knows it. Today, the vice mayors are appointed by the mayor. They're not elected. So the element of democratic legitimacy...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u117	That's right. I'll explain it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u118	...the way you put it, there's no one on the city council. And what do we say now? Just in cases where the combination of the mayor fails to have an absolute majority, because it is not given to him by the world, and therefore, a new majority is formed on the basis of compositions, consensuss and convergences, which are made before the people, then he has the right - and I would say that it is logical that it should be possible to share some positions of responsibility and those of the anti-corporates, on a proposal from the mayor, in consultation always, precisely to avoid this personal transaction, with his resignation. Obviously, you do not accept such a logic...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u119	No, I'll explain it to you right away.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u120	...because you're deeply committed to just one parade perception. This paradoxical concept is, obviously, the opposite of another democratic function, which we want to promote. From there, to hear from you "Soviet democracy in Greece", "Socialist Europe" during Adoni Georgiadis yesterday, it seems to me that you must feel very oppressive.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u121	What about me? None.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u122	Too much oppression! When will this place be released now? Alas!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u123	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u124	Mr. Javarra, don't open a dialogue now. You spoke and explained by the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u125	She's wrong, and you have to give me the right to redress.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u126	He misunderstood what is considered personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u127	I'll tell you what happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u128	Mr. Javarra, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u129	Wait a minute, Mr. President. First of all, the nomination of the mayor of the mayor is entirely within the framework of democratic legitimacy, because the mayor is directly elected and majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u130	That's what I told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u131	But here we have a vice mayor, who is not elected by the whole municipal council, but only by the members. Watch out for that. Because once the party is second, it does not have the right to transfuse and the one who failed. The man who failed can't get a transfusion from the mayor. Then every mayor could appoint both clerks and ministers and night watchmen and whatever he wants under the pretext of democratic legitimacy. You can't do that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u132	What are you talking about? It's not like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Mr. Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u134	As far as I'm concerned, now, another matter...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u135	Come on, Mr. Colleague, don't open another point.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u136	No, that's what I'm continuing with. Be careful, I have infinite respect for the people’s history, even when it was a failure. So when I talk about a form of Sovietisation, I mean that you have adopted all the ideological elements that actually lead us to be rival to liberal democracy in your day. We're liberal, we're not prisoners. And that is the contrast that will ultimately be judged by the next elections. Because from stateism and the Soviet Union and all other people's democracies have suffered and been diagnosed. We do not want to see this again in our country, because it will now be a tragic nightmare.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u137	It's clear, Mr. Javarra. Thank you. Come on, Mr. Deiaras, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u138	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give you my thought on some of the features of the political dialogue, as is the case. I wonder how we manage to disagree where we agree. That's a contradiction, as if we don't want to find anything in common. The parties say they will vote against even those with whom they agree, such as the New Democracy for the separation of the Second Election Region of Attica. What are we gonna do? Will each party make its own electoral system every time? So will we continue or will we once find a common denominator? Can there be some convergence of views, even on a few issues, or will we go to the logic of the absurd 'we or you'? I will pass on to you the logic of ecology, which is the coexistence of all on the planet and on Europe and on the Balkans and in Greece, in every region, in every municipality. This coexistence is peaceful, with genuine democracy, consensus, composition of opinions and decisions on the common good. There is a positive example in self-government and it is from the New Democracy area. I heard the district director, Kostas Bakoyannis, who said that all the decisions of the regional council, except for some exceptions from the JRC, are unanimous. How did this man get there from your own space to find solutions with unanimous decisions? It is because it uses common sense and because it has convinced each other that they can proceed with compositions. Mr Georgiadis said earlier that the simple analogue would bring chaos - that is how Mr Georgiadis understands - and that the decay of the plaque would allow small groups to be in the councils. In fact, he mentioned ADARYA and the Golden Dawn. We were with Mr. Georgiadis at the Regional Council of Attica and he knows that the presence of Andarsya, namely Angelos Hayos, who was then and now on the Council, had a very positive contribution to the functioning of the regional council. I am one of those who claim that parties like Antarsya need to be on the regional councils, since they are voted on by the Greek people. How will we rule out the choices of the Greek people by putting on a wall? Are we going to put the cap on 5%, 10%, and so on, when the percentages of some parties that we consider unwanted are going to rise? The New Democracy's position on the simple analogy by Mr. Vorides, who is skilled in wisdom, is that the authentic analogy damages efficiency. In the view of the New Democracy, what has been applied so far, according to which mayor or regional mayor at much less than 30% in the first round was receiving 60% of regional consultants, is correct and effective and does not need to change. There is also the other view expressed by the River on a weighted analogue. The question is: How proportional will the weighted one be? We didn't hear anything specific. Why should we go to weightings and not go to original, genuine, simple analogues? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm going to need a little tolerance, Mr. President. The mayors and the districts who claim that with the simple analogue there will be powerlessness, obviously not everyone can be blamed for an anti-government perpetrator. I think they think differently. They have not become accustomed to consulting and formulating policies. They are used to and settled in a model of centralisation and I think that the refusal of mere analogy comes from fear of losing power. Simple proportional changes in a positive direction many things. Firstly, it is the fairest system, since each faction, once the measure is taken, will have consultants depending on citizens' votes. This is no longer questioned by anyone. Secondly, it develops the democratic function and logic of the composition of opinions on municipal councils and regional councils. Responsibility for citizens is a matter of principle and this is where we all need to adapt. Thirdly, it strengthens collectiveness and transparency in self-government. Fourthly, it ensures the political legitimacy of the decisions of municipal councils and regional councils. These obviously do not like the powers of regional authorities and mayors who have previously resolved and given them no account. I have examples from the Attica region, where opacity led to the region paying for rented buildings four and five times more rents than those on the market. Concentration therefore leads to opacity, complexity and phenomena of corruption and the fragmentation of public money. Multi-target majorities will limit the phenomena of interdependent benefit to the Greek people. Finally, the simple analogue will exercise citizens in the culture of dialogue, consensus and composition of opinions. Efficacy, mentioned by the representatives of the New Democracy, depends entirely on other factors, not simply proportional. The Greens have been proposing since 2012, when I was a regional advisor, that regional and mayors be elected indirectly by the municipal councils since then. The proposal to create services for the municipalities and regions to promote the social economy could be included in the next one, what we call 'CLINICAL II' to follow.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u139	Mr. Diarah, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u140	Finally, with regard to the decentralised administrations, I think there needs to be an explicit provision for transferring all the powers allowed by the Constitution - until the Constitution is changed - to the regions with a binding timetable. Finally, I am going to talk about the splitting up of the constituency, and I shall end, Mr President. Everyone understands that it is a question of democracy and of a more direct relationship between candidate and citizen. Some parties may be looking for pretexts so they won't vote for it. They are the parties of the establishment that in this way transfer inherit parliamentary seats to offspring, with the help of identification and - the - independent media. Candidates with great economic potential or media access will thus be elected at the expense of others. So this does not give equal opportunities to everyone, but it makes it difficult for young people to be elected MPs in such large regions as the second of Athens. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mr. Dimitras. I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, not to spend too much time not to make any remarks to you. Based on the calculations, in normal times, we're about to arrive at about 0.00' with 1.00'. Let's finish in a normal time for tonight. Mr. Karayannides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Mr President. Communism and socialism know a lot of pressure this weekend. Mr. Vorides yesterday accused us of our communist past and our obsession with simple analogue and democracy. I'll speak, I imagine, on behalf of all my comrades and companions. I would like to say that we are extremely proud of our communist past. We expect some of us - and I will no longer speak to everyone - that this communist past may be a future at some point. I don't know if he's extremely proud of his past, who was pretty sharp as an axe and extremely punk as an EPA. As far as I know, communism is not in the lawlessness of the vast majority of countries. The junta, of which he was a representative in the 1980s, seems to be a little illegal. So let's leave the democracy lessons. It's been cut since the 1980s in this class, Mr. Voridis. Let's try to say something else. The second argument is that the whole bill, in our view, is preposterous, because it puts in the process of local self-government things that were not there before, such as the institution of consultation, the assemblies per district, the prediction of local referendums, social control. That's not what you're interested in. You found yourself impressed and focused your criticism on the most democratic thing that brings this bill and it's the simple analogue. Indeed, it was heard by another Vice-President with a deep 'democratic' past that extremities would enter municipal and regional councils. On purpose, there is a link between the nazis and the extra-parliamentary Left, which is obviously not the same thing and is not the ex-parliamentary Left. But your logic is that it bothers you to stumble so that it never enters and does not speak in public dialogue, in institutions. The presence of the extra-parliamentary Left therefore only has to offer the municipal and regional councils. So remember here, for the gentleman with the 'democratic' past that the party in which he was in 2002, LAOS, and they went down to the district elections in Attica, had four members of the Golden Dawn. Who prepared the nazis in this country cannot tell us the Vice President. One of the four who then premeditated as candidates for prefecture advisers today is a MP, Panagiotaros. So let's leave the fairy tales on who's pushed Naziism into this country. I think I have time to say maybe two more things that I would have left out. There is a great talk about what the mayor can appoint and what the mayor can do or what the mayor cannot do. I had the impression that the mayor, according to the laws we have in this country, is an executive body and the political body of this thing is the municipal council. You don't care about the city council. You are interested in what the Minister said, a mere parade situation in any municipality, so that you can control it. That's why you're putting all this army down that you're controlling, the primary school, the mayors and the districts, considering that you're going to force the government in this way. Also, it is highly contradictory to speak of selfishness of local government where if a candidate mayor or regional mayor, firstly, has very little chance of being elected and secondly. Let's not talk about it in this conversation, because time doesn't take. But let us talk about the self-sufficiency that the city council has given to decide much more than the mayor will tell him, whether the donkey is flying or not. Because right now we have a local government where the mayor can go crazy, the mayor can change bows, the mayor can do whatever he wants, his head and no one can move him from this position. So this system is not a democracy. This system does not meet the needs of society and is not representative. This changes this bill, and you mind very much. What can we do? That's what you'll live with. And if you think we're gonna be a Soviet because of this thing, uh, you're gonna live with that Soviet girl, just like you've lived with other people. I am sure that this is not the case with the Soviet Union and the Soviet Union, but with the books, as we know, you have a very bad relationship. I'll hang up with Philosophy I and Philosophy II. I challenge you - I will give you the example of the Drama Prefecture - to go talk to the five mayors in the Drama Prefecture about what they think about the Ministry of the Interior and what assistance they have received over the last three years from this government, economic, material, staffed and what they accepted in the previous years. And because these local authorities that are now living with you and us, you should ask them, by comparing the two periods, what was the best period. That's why a political rival in Drama is getting caught, because people who don't belong to SYRIZA have to say only good words about the Interior Ministry and the material help that he has provided for all this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr. Karayannides. Mr. Aihan Kara Yusuf has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today is a continuation of the leading democratic change in the country, of the change in the electoral system at central level and now in local government. It seeks to remove distortions and obscurities of the past and to establish a set of progressive, democratic and institutional changes, with a view to building a fairer and effective administration. Following the polynomial plan of 2017, which increased state funding to local government by 5%, the introduction of simple proportional to municipal elections is now coming, a consistent Left demand is being implemented and it seems in practice the government's will to make a deep democratic cut, strengthening the will of the people and promoting partnership and cooperation at local level. Since most of them have been heard, I do not want to go into detail about the articles, I will simply highlight some key elements which I think are indicative of the different model of governance of the municipalities, which is introduced by this bill. First of all, the introduction of mere proportional representation strengthens representativeness, democratic expression and the participation of citizens. At the same time, the proposed model enhances growth by decentralisation, without neglecting social accountability and control. The 'CLOSURE' corrects previous injustices of 'KALIKARAT', which enabled a party to have an absolute majority of the municipal council even with a very small percentage of votes on the first Sunday. We were a municipal authority from 2010 to 2014 with such a minority because of the enhanced proportionality. On the other hand, it is now promoting a culture of synthesis, consensus and convergence of the views of different groups, with a view to the best for local society. In addition, for small communities with a population of up to three hundred, it is positive that the president will be elected by a single ballot. It is also important that there are provisions aimed at improving the participation of local government in the productive reconstruction of the country. TAs will be able to play a more active role and be able to set up companies producing electricity, desalination plants, utilities. This will play a central role in the development of local societies. Some other elements that I would like to highlight are the reintroduction of the four-year term of hereditaries, the disconnection of the self-government elections from the European elections, which are held every five years, the election of anti-democrats and anti-regions from the respective councils, the increase in scientific co-workers and advisors as a means of strengthening the OTAs, as well as the establishment of an autonomous OTA monitoring agency, which takes over by the decentralised administrations the legality of the acts of local government bodies. It is also important to provide local referendums for the greater involvement of the citizen. The aim is finally to break the logic of the assignment and the customer perception, which was the flag of the old political system that is within the House and which is still trying to keep it alive. It is clear that things change. Micro-participatory logic is discredited. Local society is coming forward. The election commitments shall be implemented. At the same time, in August we come out of the commission. The troika will not come back to our country and the economic situation is constantly improving. The only one who does not see these radical changes is the Civic Opposition. As much as you speak, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, too, for the economy in time. Mr Triantafylides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u146	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this has been mentioned with regard to incest, incest and right-wing incest that causes teratogenicity. History in the back shows, sadly, the course of our democratic and parliamentary things, what we have experienced in the last quarter, for the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy. Recalling the memory of Wikipedia alone, one recalls that in the 2000 elections the "First Line" of Kostas Plori, associated with the Greek Front, led by Mr.Makis Voridis, describes it as the Greek fascist nationalist party. It's over. This is just as a record of what was heard, reminding the Thessaloniki Theatre, where the actor “God saved us, my child, and we were not communists.” Rescind it a little in memory. This draft law breaks soberly, breaks accumulated salts, installed functions, pathogens of immorality and inertia, permanent and stable occupation, prefecture, distribution, redistribution of political and economic power at local and regional level. We have heard exactly the same arguments that we have heard when we introduced the simple proportional system of election for the country. Then again it was the criterion of governance that turned the instrument into an end in itself, a criterion of governance in the country, to have a government. With this criterion of reinforced analogy, for the country to have a government, have we not been led to bankruptcy? Self-government governments didn't lead the country to bankruptcy? Now cybercracy criterion in the municipalities. They must be ruled. What was the result? I do not want to invoke your or my knowledge of things, but I would like to submit to the minutes the reports of the former Public Administration Inspector General, Mr. Leandros Rakintzis, on 11-7-2013: "Rakintz "wraps" corruption in 218 pages - Champion again local self-government". I put it to the Minutes from 'iefimerida'. [[At this point, the Member, Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] "AUTODICATION" magazine: "Rakinzis: The municipalities "shows" again about corruption. It comprises 35.9% of the local control.’ [[At this point, the Member, Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] ‘Leandros Rakintzis: An outbreak of corruption the municipalities’, on January 22, 2014. [[At this point, the Member, Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It's not my name, it's Leandros Rakinzis, it's another main symbol! From the website "Voria.gr": "Publics and regions remain champions in corruption". Mr. Famele, "Voria.gr", another SYRIZA site! I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And the once-ever "ELETEROTYPIA", which says: "In the municipalities the greatest corruption" and mentions concrete elements. [[At this point, the Member, Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This does not include the whole of government and does not target it. However, it shows what we experienced yesterday. Because I have heard something about the fact that it is not just proportional, but it is a transaction, as if the regime were 'the Angels of Charlie', and now with the adoption of the simple analogy there will be famines, earthquakes, oppressions and all that, the doors, the buyers of corruption open up. So to open windows for a unique purpose: to leave the mold, blow air, enter the fresh air of democracy, pluralism, approach, the non-male authority, the mayor - gaulater, who is all but slaughtered and stabbed by the mayor, who will be the executive body of the decisions of the multi-speaking municipal council. The cave will not take place on the person who shares authority, but on the subject, on the proposal, in the opinion. It will not take place on the personalized dominance that divides power and chairs, but on your proposal for cleanliness, water, lighting, social policy, support for mother and family, the unemployed, the homeless, the abominable. The gatherings will not concern persons, but will concern proposals and pressing anxiety and the daily struggle to give concrete realistic, applied proposals on the ground. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I ask for your tolerance for a minute. The self-government of "CLITHENI" is self-government - a school of democracy, through direct democratic procedures for the participation and participation of citizens, the implementation of the principle of subsidiarity. I would ask you here, Mr Skourletis, at a later stage to see a grid of stimulus incentives, strengthening the presence of young people and women in self-government, introducing new blood. I say that as you elect in my 20s, thirty years ago, in local government for three four years. Participate young people, take luck in their hands, be the wind of democracy that will blow to leave established logic and behaviour in self-government. As for my city, Thessaloniki, to think and see the establishment of the metropolitan administration of Thessaloniki, which is necessary. Water, OSTH, civil protection - see snow - the protection of the Thermaikos, the protection of the Sheikh Sou, traffic, are issues that do not concern one to one municipality, concern the entire town complex as a whole and not every municipality separately.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u147	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u148	I'll just deposit one document. I wanted to speak as chairman of the Special Permanent Committee of the Hellenic Diaspora for another 15-year-old shipwreck for the vote of the relatives established by the Revision of the Constitution in 51.4 in April 2001 and did not come up with the election of SYRIZA and Alexis Tsipras in January 2015.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u149	Come on, Mr. Triantafylides, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u150	I will not speak with my own words as President of the Commission. I will submit the article by Michael Ignatiu, my colleague and fellowman from New York, entitled "The Political Fraud" for the vote by the expatriates: Where was the PASOK and the New Democracy when they ruled?" He wonders about Michael Ignatiu.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u151	Mr. Colleague, if you testify, you don't have to read it. We've reached eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u152	He also puts a number of questions and I conclude with them: “Neither has the New Democracy ever been governed? Did not PASOK rule Greece or PASOK? Were there not allied governments on the right - Left, New Democracy and PASOK?’ Of course, it also sets out the parameters to be considered by the Scientific Committee which, within a period of five months, has to decide on all aspects of this matter. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you for your tolerance. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u153	Mr. Kefaliannis, you have the floor. I hope you guys are more consistent.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is perfectly understandable, at least to me, that the need for the members of the Coupling and of course the government after three and a half years in the governance of the place want to present a genuine, left policy to Greek society. It is understandable that, as the government proves the best student in the memorial test, collecting one praise after another from the European partners, the more urgent the account of the left is to contain something, as the Italian actor and director Nani Moretti would say, after so many and a half discrepancies over the last three and a half years. So we have a review of the "yes" style in the relations between the Church - State. We've got a lot of fight against interplanetaryism. We suddenly have struggles for, supposedly, work and pensioners, such as the bill that was discussed here in plenary yesterday. And in the midst, of course, we have a little more than just proportional to local government. The fact that the simple analogue has a prominent place in the timeless myths introduced by the Left into Greek society is well known. Simple analogues are supposed to be more democratic, more representative and fairer. Let's see this, Minister. How democratic is a newly elected mayor, a regional mayor not having the majority on the municipal council in order to implement his programme in a coherent way and at the same time to cooperate with a municipal regional party that the people in the elections rejected? Of course you will tell me that a mere analogue is demanding a culture of consensus, which has been heard many times in this Chamber. Of course, if I overlook the fact that the government and the party of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks with the most divisive political rhetoric, the government of 'or we', or 'find them or end' is interested in getting all the rest of us a culture of consensus, the question is: is there a consensus? And if there's no consensus, what's going on? Is there a safeguard in the event of insolence and inability to take decisions? Unfortunately, none. Are you serving the democratic right of citizens to express themselves by a majority as reflected in the face of the regional or mayor? Still not. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, the proposed system of highlighting local authorities has nothing democratic. I would even say that it favours to such an extent the political fragmentation that strengthens the tendency for the first time in the times of local government to play a role, purely anti-democratic forces, completely marginalised to date. And that is why it is absolutely regrettable that after three and a half years this bill has come and is presented as a reform here. I ask: was it bad for the system of governance that we had in the municipalities and regions up to now to change it? The answer is that no one raised this issue, no citizens put it, no self-government, no other political parties put it. Only you as government, Mr. Minister, have put it. Citizens, self-government, parties three and a half years ask you other questions: competences, decentralisation, citizens' service, resource transfer, development planning. Who are they, of course, who have never been interested in putting this in place? Again, the rulers. Two words, ladies and gentlemen, on the government argument which has been heard in recent days that simply proportional representation ensures the representativeness of the vote. Of course, we have heard this before when we talked about the bill, about the national elections. And those who understand, in fact, how the electoral systems operate are well aware that the way the seats are distributed and how the electoral regions are to be devised are at the end of the day. That is why the New Democracy has, from the outset, pointed out and insisted on the removal of the disharmony that exists between one-sided and one-sided regions. There is also the question of how representative and fair it is for us to have two categories of Greeks, namely those to whom the Greek state allows them to exercise their electoral right at their residence and those who do not have that right. And, of course, the social rights preachers understand that the fundamental refusal for the multiplicity of the SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks to accept the facilitation of the vote of Greeks abroad - and I have heard my colleague say at some point that they should make a distinction between the Greeks abroad and the Greeks, is due to two different categories, and I am very sorry that he is also the head of the respective committee - that they cannot make this simple separation. We are therefore saying that we should - and that is why we tabled this amendment once again - be able to facilitate those who are registered on the electoral lists and want to make it easier for them to vote, vote from their place of residence, as is the case in all the civilised states of the world. Other are the homosexuals and others who have left in recent years because of the crisis to ask for a better right abroad. And of course, here government hypocrisy is overtaken, a hypocrisy that has victims primarily of our compatriots who have left abroad and I would say, if you like, perhaps the compatriots who have a greater need, because to leave the years of the crisis, one has gone out to find work, to leave for a better future. And to them, unfortunately, you don't give them that right. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr President, I shall conclude. I will certainly not dwell on the endless hours that we have heard from the Minister and Members of the SYRIZA arguing about the need to disconnect municipal and regional elections from the European elections or, of course, about the time we have wasted interviews about how incredibly useful the start of the term of office of the new self-government authorities is at New Year's Day. What I would say is that, in fact, the amendment tabled by the SYRIZA Members and accepted by you shows in the clearest way that you obviously see that you will lose the next national election, you fear that you will lose the next European elections and you think that this will probably be the way to lose some things.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u155	Finish, Mr. Kefaliannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u156	I shall conclude, Mr President. It is cynical that your confession, and it is the only thing you are going to pursue, is to prevent the next legally elected government from finally cancelling a bill which we regard as undemocratic and against the common sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Mr. Kefaliannis. The SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, because political philosophy is well kept these days, let me also have a few introductory remarks. So I listened with interest to a small lesson in political philosophy and political theory from the rapporteur of Officerial Response. I heard that the only criterion for good governance is efficiency. And a tyranny can be effective and a dictatorship. The tyranny and the monarchy, the pre-engineering thought that can ensure euphoria, do great works, but is not ruled democratically, is it legalized? The ancient Athenian democracy, which has just been mentioned by modern political thought and the European Enlightenment has been referred to, refers to the citizen who is actively involved in the decision-making process. So it is not efficiency or benefiting from the criterion of good governance that is important, but the fundamental question from the dawn of modernity was just one: What are the legal foundations of political power? What are her legal bases? And from the theories of the "social contract" to Cad, which said that the citizen should obey only the laws to which he consents, or Russo, in the "social contract", who considered that he should obey only the laws which he himself as a sovereign people adopts, on the basis of the principle of popular sovereignty and of general will, the answer is just one: democracy, democracy, democracy. And that is the philosophy of this bill: the treatment of democracy with more democracy, with greater involvement of the citizens, with accountability, representativeness and the realisation of a political culture, cooperation, pluralism and difference. And it is of paramount importance that this bill is in a post-policy situation that we live in, where decisions are made in the absence of the citizens in the eyes of a blemish that is mitigating over their heads in a political situation with a deficit of representation, which is the one that raises the monster of the extreme right in Europe. You, of course, are still in the pre-emptive state of affairs, voting for the weekend in the European Parliament and possibly associating with the Austrian Kurts who spent 12 hours. So what we consider to be a cure for the democratic deficit, you call it insolence, dissolution of local government, inefficient and undevelopmental model. The President of the CEDEFOP, Mr. Patoulis, did not hesitate to a demagogic explosion, to an opposition ostracist that is channelling to communication campaigns and telephone centres that call on all the self-government to uproot - I am referring also to the personal testimony at the fourth meeting of the Committee of Deputy Minister Mr. Famelou and the reference made earlier by Mr. Dritsas - thus confuses his criticism and "enterprise" to a slogan, exemplary and how he perceives the role of self-government. So Mr Patulis said that if we do not want to dismantle the local government, the people must break down the government. Yes, sir. Congratulations to Mr. Patulis. Totally harmonised and with the protagonist in which the Civic Opposition has been concentrated over the last three years: "Resign." But let us go to the arguments. "The simple analogue, because it leads to insolence and dissolution" and let it be commonplace that it ensures and realizes equality of vote and demolishes emblems that did not only reproduce dominational models, nurseries of arbitrariness, corruption, barons and transactions, but also created a very large representation crisis. They gave birth to a distorted representativeness. How does it explain, for example, 25% of the elections to occupy 60% of the municipal council? Does it not violate the popular mandate of equality of vote? But what if democracy still has to be sacrificed to effective governance for you, which is supposed to be 'tracking' the simple analogue, the whole of Europe, in whose name you confess, has self-government under dissolution and ineffective control? Has he surrendered to lawlessness? So you European open-minded fans, our supporters of 'Home Europe', should know what happens to 90% of Europe's municipalities. You should know that the matter of mere proportionality has been solved for decades. In addition, many European municipalities - Mr Lappas mentioned also before - have moved on to the indirect election of mayors from the municipal councils. Of course, "Medium Europe" has recently given up its place in "We leave Europe and we move to the Middle Ages or the "Medium Memorandum", as the patriotism trade shows, and the inflation of nationalism, as well as the sharp criticism of your very dear partners, when they asked for eight years of tragedy to mitigate austerity, as the 40-hour vote and the vote against any measure supports living work. But let us say that what we have to vote on is an anti-government legislation - let us go to this dimension - which will dismantle local self-government. I'm naively asking: What local government are we talking about before? What development vision? What adequate staff? What transparency? In the period 2010-2015, local government had 60% losses. The Public Administration Inspector General, Mr. Rakinzis, had proved with evidence that the municipalities were third to corruption. Almighty majorities, unilateral logics, party dough - take - take - became entanglements of opacity, corruption and trade. Most of the examples. Last week we had convicted judgments of mayors and districts - important officials of the New Democracy. You say that the simple analogue we are legislating weakens the power of the mayor, who becomes vulnerable to local interests. Just the opposite happens. The mayoral central system incubated local barons and interests for many years. This system would be an authentic representative and strong municipal council, a municipal council representing all citizens and not just 25%. Simple analogues are the most powerful antidote of democracy and transparency against progeny, corruption and opacity. Enough about politics as a profession. Let us not allow local government to become a profession, and let us understand the relationship between the citizen and the politically indisputable. Only genuine representativeness guarantees accountability, and that is democracy. With regard to the last argument about the anti-development dimension of this draft law, let me also turn back to the recent past. It was last year that we were discussing and voting on the multi-brand plan for the Local Government agencies, which, among other things, was modernising the JHA framework. State funding has increased. The programmes ‘PHALIDUM 1’ and ‘PHILIDUM 2’ have been introduced. Exceptional aid was granted to small island towns around twenty million. The municipalities were given the opportunity to restore public buildings. New financial and development tools, such as modernising the institutional framework of Waste Management Boilers in line with the National Waste Management Plan, with the possibility of three PVCs per region, because even under memorandum and financial closeness conditions, the spirit of this Government for OTAs was not redundancies, deforestation and then unconditional delivery to private individuals. It was a tool enhancement. Let us know exactly what you have done over the past five to six years. I close with some important points concerning the partitioning of the constituencies of Athens and Attica. They're huge regions. It is not just a matter of opacity and lack of the relationship between the citizen and politics, that is, lack of representation. They are regions which favour offspring. They are so designed that the choice is a condition for access to the media, for great economic comfort and not for the value and proximity of the citizens. So it's very positive. These regions are in need of fragmentation. With regard to the question of voting in the Greeks abroad, we discussed it in detail. Thousands of young people and high-level scientists have chosen the path of immigration during the crisis. Let's give them a chance. It is right to have their voices together with those who have remained here, facing the threats of unemployment, marginalisation and precariousness. The Greeks of foreigners who were forced to leave their families because they had no choice but to have the right to co-decide on the future of their country and to define these developments at some point in Greece, but also Greece to return to the path of solidarity, democracy and social justice. It is also very important, and it is time to act, that the quota for women is at least 40%. I would like to close up in a few words, beyond the bill, for yesterday, because there have been some references to our sensitive national issues. A prerequisite, as the fellow Members of the Officerial Representation are well aware, for the accession of the former Yugoslav Republic to NATO is the referendum and the constitutional review in the neighbouring country. Yesterday you started the well-known: "Tsipras and Kammenos opened the door to NATO. At the same time, a verbal nonsense of the Commissioner - which has been corrected immediately - has made you climb the tiles and complain that the debate on border change has been opened. This is because of either political opportunism, or because of your unconditional accession to nationalism, or because of the fact that you have decided to sign or resurrect a nationalist that means the nation as the omman and the homogeneous. And very little is left from the law of blood, from this law that had once made you not to vote for the law on citizenship for the children of migrants, or makes you by mouth of the best biographic country to identify certain terms, to confuse citizenship with ethnicity.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u159	Ms. Vaki, if you'd like, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u160	Just a minute and I'll be done, Mr. President. So all this is dangerous, they open up the bottleneck of Haul and give flesh and bone to these famous patriots who desecrate the Holocaust's monuments, who launch these unorthodox threats to the life of the MPs, who cry out "to the weapons, to the weapons, to take Skopje" or "hale in the heart of each opposing". You condemned all this? Is this the Greece that we dream of, ladies and gentlemen? Is that our vision? Is that our vision of our neighbours and the Balkans? Let's get the thread back from Cleisthenes, the bill we're talking about today. The oligarchs did not mention him, but it exists in the "Athens State". And from there we can catch another thread, the vision of King Ferraios for the Balkans, inspired by the trio of the French Revolution, equality, brotherhood and freedom. He called on all Balkan peoples to resist, not only against Ottoman domination, but also against all forms of sovereignty, and sought a multinational state that would ensure the equal coexistence of the Balkan peoples. That is to regain this thread and with these materials, with this form and traditions to rebuild a country that we deserve, but also a democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u161	Thank you, Mrs. Vaki. Mr Michalis has the floor, and immediately thereafter Vice-President Christodoulopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin with a few comments. Acknowledgement first. Our country is small with a number of problems and lastly with the economic crisis that has changed to a social crisis. Our country since its establishment is under a continuous dependency that takes a different degree at a time. Our attempt is to disarm. There is a worldwide decline in politics towards the economy and SMEs and the development of the extreme right. How are we going to deal with this? The effort must pass through consents, confrontations and programmatic shocks. This can only be achieved on a simple analogue basis. I would remind you that the mere analogy did not apply before Law 1264/1982 or to unions. It was the majority. It was the right perception of powerful administrations. Long, Theodore for oldest in GSEE, for a number of years professional trade unionists. A prerequisite for the creation of culture of partnerships is simply proportional. I am not one of those who will say that from tomorrow's vote this culture will be created. I am one of those who say that at some point we need to start and we need to go to consensus, collapsing and conciliatory solutions. The counterpart for rulership, stability, etc., is given by an excellent book by Jean-Main "Political forces in Greece" describing the operation of political parties by 1974. It was consistently the electoral systems tended to the majority. The governments were stable with a very increased number of Members. Nearly nothing came out of the four years. It's been the same since 1974 and it's been. Therefore, stability is not dependent on the majority voting system or on the large number of Members. It depends on the ability to solve the problems of the world and its involvement in the institutions. Second theme: large regions. I, as a Member of the province, understand the great regions as regions for the big political fireplaces, for those who are still here today treating us as the owners of the parliament and the state, for those who daily tell us'retire', 'go', 'you are bored', 'cooled with the chair'. Who? We've had three and a half years of MPs. Those who were born MPs. Their grandparents, their parents, themselves before coming from the European universities, had the seat here. My proposal is not only to vote on the fragmentation of the regions. It is now time to start talking about a restricted term of office for Members. And let's go after that. And mayor and trade unions, etc. Two terms are too long. Anyone who deals with politics, with the excellence of 'I work with the public' can also deal with their party, can also be dealt with anywhere else. One last answer I want to give to Mr Voridis. We who come to SYRIZA, either from the Communist Left, either from the wider Left or from the centre-left, are the ones who, at the time of the dictatorship, took the lead in the anti-digit struggle, then participated in social struggles to normalise democracy after 1974. You most of you were awkward at the time of the dictatorship and silent during the course of it, those who to a very small extent did not collide with it and you were not the secretaries of Papadopoulos’ youth immediately afterwards. You know what? History records them and it is useful to remember. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, and actually in time, Mr. Michalis. Mrs Christodoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u164	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, by making a small statement from the committees and from the debate that took place yesterday in plenary, we could well claim that the draft law with the code 'CLITHEN I' was deeply underestimated by the opposition. A careful viewer will think that this bill has an article, the article on simple analogues. So let us know that it has two hundred and fifty five articles, that it consists of a thousand ten pages and, of course, that many issues are dealt with in this regard with the needs of local government and, above all, with the need for the democratisation of the institution. That is not, in our view, the case at random. I think the opposition parties have lost their temper with their simple analogues, because the simple analogue, especially in the municipal elections that are close to the rulers, is a sperm of direct democracy. This is what they hate and fear, the immediate possibility for citizens to choose, to control, to demand transparency and to hear their word. That's what causes this hostility. I wanted to say at this point that I too could make an amendment and ask, in addition to the mere analogue, for there to be an irrevocability of the municipal authorities if, through the referendum on 'CLISTENH', people are getting signatures for people who are incompetent or corrupt and we cannot wait for the end of the four-year or five-year-olds to 'blacken' them. Imagine having this self-evident thing, which is being discussed throughout Europe, namely the irrevocability of the rulers, who go into self-government to make a big party, to build political careers, at the initiative of the citizens. I would therefore like to say here: do not be afraid, colleagues. Representative democracy is not at risk. Moreover, what representative democracy, when the representation crisis is the main issue, when the bipartisanism died and you are trying, rabies, to keep the practices of bipartisanism, instead of bipartisanism? You blame, you risk, that's all you do. An account, which would legitimize you to move your hand, you dare not do. So what have we seen, ladies and gentlemen, with the majority of forty years in our country? Scandals, corruption, opacity, away from politics, contempt for citizens and increasingly less and less people's participation in elections. We understand that we have an ideological divide. For you, elections and elected posts, they are for professionals, they are for the chosen parties. You cannot tolerate citizens' initiatives, you cannot tolerate new ideas, you cannot make use of the creative imagination of the citizens, who at local level often surprises, but you are risking that local government will be dissolved and there will be no notorious rulership. In Thessaloniki, on Papagoropoulos, was there any such minority that dissolved the image, faces and values of local government or other municipalities, not to mention? Therefore, the issue is elsewhere and do not try to disorientate citizens from becoming familiar with the system of mere proportionality. We want citizens to be able, not only to participate as voters as you want them, but also to participate as citizens who claim the vote of others who claim to implement their ideas, who claim to put a stone in the democratic organisation of the municipalities and communities. That is why I think that, above all, you have focused on simply proportional. Of course, Mr Vorides also had an outburst of direct democracy, why did he say: 'But who asked for the simple analogue?' So what the public wants is to do? Are you that viewpoint? Well done. Of course, you have explained that the CCT did not ask for it. But what can the CEDEFOP ask for? The CEDEFOP, Mr Voridis, is of interest to be constantly reproduced for centuries until it finds a ministerial thorn. That's what they care about. They do not care about local self-government, the needs of the many, the imagination of the citizens and all that they are discussing everywhere, throughout the world, where the lack of democracy has led to the crisis of the political system. [[This is where the ending bell of Mrs Vice-President's speaking time is ringing.]] However, since yesterday - and I shall end, Mr President - you have found something else to focus on. You found the Minister's inconsistency, who, after the threats of going to the Council of State to declare the law unconstitutional which will carry the election date, said not to risk it. Is that bad? That's politics, isn't it? Do we not risk and upset, for no reason, and do we have justice to solve political issues? Because that is what you are always doing, for what is bothering you to the Council of State, whether spontaneously or disguised to citizens, to media owners, to anything else, to anything else, and then you say that we are benefiting the institutions and, in particular, the institutions of justice, when you are using it against coron. What are you threatening again today? You say, "If, Minister, Mr. Skourletis, you leave this provision and transfer the elections in October, we will go to the Council of State, the law will fall, so wait." So what did the Minister do through Members who accepted their amendment? He said: 'Okay, the election dates will not be moved'. What did you do after that? You, then you discovered the maximum form that Tsipras will be holding four elections together. And you started from yesterday afternoon to discuss this terrible construction, that SYRIZA is taking it for four elections, wants to confuse the citizens, drive them crazy, not knowing which polls will vote for what, thus reducing costs and various other, imaginative. Well, because your imagination is wrathing and because you're constantly disgusting, I'd like to say that the elections have said when they're going to happen. Of course, you keep fighting. If, indeed, you think Tsipras will do it all together in May, at least stop asking for it. Say something prototype, 'cause we've got the smiling and the boredom dies in this House. Say something else than "elections now". Finally, I would like to say that in any case, the issues of democracy and participation are the issues that concern the citizens most. That's not what you're interested in. You consider them capable only of 'worms'. Yes, only "worms" want them. You never wanted anything else. You never wanted people who have a point of view, who have ideology, who are organizing races. You're abhorring this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u165	Complete, if you please, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u166	After all, Mr. Georgiadis said, of course, putting Golden Dawn first, but also Antarsyas and the others and so forth...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u167	You're over time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u168	Who's in trouble, please? I'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u169	You've all spoken enough, don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u170	I'm sorry I'm in a time violation, too. So because this is where everyone comes out and the masks fall...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u171	They're all over time. Let us preside. Here you go, Mrs. Christodoulou, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u172	This is where the masks fall, who is simply proportional, who is with democracy, with civil societies, with local societies. You, therefore, want a law to perpetuate the same situation forever, not to change anything in this country, without even giving an answer because people are contemplating the election process, because your own parties are going down against insurgent ballots and are now shaking. And you'll be wondering, with the simple analogue, let's pick them up, each one and one ballot. We understand you, but what to do, you need to adapt to the new needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u173	Mr Constantine Barriotas has the floor. Immediately afterwards, Mrs. Papacosta will speak. Here, Mr Barriotta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, like all the people of my generation who have been following politics, they have grown up in Transmigration by reading'sentons' articles on the need to establish a stable, permanent, fair, proportionate system, which will not change every three minutes, will not change according to the context and the interests of each government. That was a time-consuming request, in which the Left was leading. It was always in favour of establishing a stable system. There have been proposals, even integrating the system into the Constitution. This way of handling the electoral system, which we saw in this parliamentary term - I would remind you of the vote of the so-called mere analogous two years ago, again today on the issue of the break-up of regions, which at that time were not within the priorities of the government or its interests, were other interests at that time - are something which is unprecedented. I do not remember, at least, the proposal on the country's electoral system, at least twice in the same parliamentary term. The same is happening today. There is a demonstration of real political cynicism, as for the first time the government's regular intention to go into double or triple elections in May, effectively manipulating the people's vote, both in government and in general elections or in European elections. During the postpopulation, therefore, several changes and several progress have been made. The problem with the electoral system in the country goes back, at least in the Middle War period, where there were continuous elections, the majority before the junta. We had a constant debate on this and on Postpopulation, the truth is that there have been major changes, mainly the cancellation of the government's surprise with the great change in the Constitution of 2001, where it is now foreseen that without the enhanced majority the system cannot be changed in the next election. Those who had participated in the debate on the electoral system, on the supposedly proportional and did not participate in the pursuit of the two hundred votes, from the JRC to the Golden Dawn, which was the government's pursuit at that time, we noted that the break-up of the large regions, the real, the great change in the electoral system, was this and not so much the way Members are elected. As I said, that's not happening. Then there was no political will, there is now. Even though there has been no debate on how the regions should change their way of electing the Members. Let's go to the breakup in Athens, which is a constant request, without any debate on the electoral system in the country, which is - I think - very bad. We have surprises and drunkenness, for the first time in many years, in the way that happened today. It is a clear cynicism and old-fashioned and contempt for the country's need for a more stable institutional framework. What is actually happening with 'CLINKEN'? If one excludes the patches and small changes in his body, I hope that the next change, by the way, will not start with cape, because we are beginning to get confused with the names of the ancients all beginning with 'k' - the only change is the change in the electoral system, which actually leads to the dismantling of local government. The alleged analogue, in the way it is implemented, essentially aims to dismantle the self-government groups and the fact that the mosaic factories and localities are created and to create minority mayors, who will be hostage transactions from now on. The real goal is the faint presence of SYRIZA in self-government, known to everyone, to maximize. The fact that along with this it will take place for the Golden Dawn does not seem to interest anyone. The funny percentages that SYRIZA's factions are expected to receive in the elections, thus gain value in a bazaar, which dismantles self-government. Instead of talking about decentralisation, instead of talking about transferring funds, about self-sufficiency in decision-making, about completing the transfer of prosperous policies to OTAs, for example, instead of talking about deepening and supporting decentralisation policy, implemented by the PASOK governments for many years, instead of talking about continuing a major reform, about a strong, modern government, close to the citizen, we are talking about a bill aimed solely at manipulating local government units by minorities, at the cost of effectively breaking up and trading. Municipalities and regions put back on the crisis. They supported local communities in many ways, even the health system, to set an example, as they should not. It is known that, without the municipalities, there would be no health centres in the crisis. Despite the huge cuts in the budgets of the municipalities, the municipalities have endured and responded in their form today. Instead of looking at stabilizing them and improving them, just to impress the night of the elections, we are going to a process which, I fear, will break them down. All on the altar of a communication licence. The recurring dates for elections, municipal elections, self-government elections, from October to May, from Sunday before the European elections on Sunday after the European elections, prove that the government is rather embarrassed, if not despaired. The truth is, no one was able to reverse the current with twigs, no one was able to change the popular will or manipulate the vote with tricks. Whenever the elections take place, no matter how many ballots are set up together, three, four, five, as regards communiqués and seek, I think that in the next elections the Greek people will credit you both the slavery of the shadow memoranda and the country's sale and the anti-popular fiscal policy that replaced Thessaloniki's programme. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Whenever the elections take place, no matter how the elections take place, you will lose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u175	Mrs Papacosta has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u176	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the impression is that the only concern of the political world and the political parties is election results and, of course, the expectation, anticipation and expectation of who, the chairs that will be empty, will understand them at the next moment. This is a deeply declining concept, which, unfortunately, from the most formal lips, namely Members who proclaim, buy for their party, go up to the Step, reproduces this kind of debate rather than the interests of the citizens, rather than a firm and solid legislative initiative, which must be launched by the organised state, by the government at any time and by the government majority, which has the legislative initiative, for the benefit of the citizens. I want to deconstruct this behavior and show it up. It's a disgrace! It is a purely political behaviour, a declining, old cutting, which puts forward and above all the party benefit, the good election result, not urging any one before. I am very sorry, ladies and gentlemen, for those of you who make this up as an argument. 'We will lose', 'we will win', 'you will survive'. It's a terrible thing, this arena. And citizens outside, of course, draw their conclusions. Listen, ladies and gentlemen. Klistheis in the 6th century, when he decided to do his reform, gave what Aristotle gave him as honor, all the power in the Church of the Municipality. So Aristotle said then that Klisthenes gave the state to the people. Cleisthenes, by this measure what did he do, what did he do then? It has succeeded in the factions, the elite, the rich of the era, being mixed with the rest of the citizens and not being the ones who were concerned with politics alone and privileged. And that is what I think today reminds us of a lot of things. Today, close to three thousand years later, the factions, the elites and the rich are still oppressing and eating the political life of the country. So we need a 'CLINIS' anyway, as a reform, in the sense that society should be involved in political matters directly and on an equal footing. Listen to something else, another declining pathogen, which the political world finds in front of it, and especially the government, the Civic Opposition and the other parties. Ladies and gentlemen, have you understood what is going on here at a time when times have changed? Our opponent, our politicians, is neither the political nor the citizens, who look at us most often, but they are our own words, are our own political actions and behaviours. I am explaining: In matters which for years have been considered as data from specific political areas and which have had a specific and clear ideological mark, when we are today retreating in the name of the first decadent disease, in the name of the good election result, this is a deep retreat of politics, for the benefit of the electoral clientele, the fishing of votes, for the benefit of any party party. I'm explaining: Just proportionally. To look in the mirror. Who were they talking about just proportionally? Where are they now, those who were talking about simple analogues? They're retreating. Why do you retreat, ladies and gentlemen, and your parties, without being red, to be politically ignorant and modest, while what you have been asking for, from the safe but, for so many years, today comes to be a reality? Listen: personally, I consider two things. Since 1990, as the newest mayor in the country, I have been and have signed through the Western Attica Development Association for two things. Firstly, for the segmentation of the large constituencies, and secondly for the mere proportion of self-government. I am not going to face my words, much more, which I belong to and belong to a large urban party that wanted the majority system. But in self-government, I have always believed and will defend the right of mere analogy to self-government. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One minute's tolerance, please, Mr President. But, gentlemen of the government, there must be a threshold. 5% as an entry limit resolves issues, and transitionalism also solves issues. The way you bring it, without transitional and without a threshold - 5%, which I have told you, is very reasonable - I think this simple analogue will cause problems. The partition finds me in agreement. For a minute, Mr President, I would like to point out one more thing. Today I am deeply disappointed by all of us here. I'm doing my self-criticism, and I'm trying to bring in proposals too. The bazaar with the relatives to combine it with the vote on the partition of the regions, I also consider it to be truly declining and passive in our political life. I'm explaining: I see PASOK here. When on 3-4-2009 Mr Prokopis Pavlopoulos, on the government of Karamanlis, had taken legislative initiative on the exercise of the electoral right by Greek voters who live abroad, Mr Venizelos, who precedented, who spoke earlier, said at the time about what he is claiming to return today. That is why I said that our opponents are our words. He had said at that time about that draft law, which he and he rejected, is a constitutional monastic. In fact, he had added, with the glazing style, which really has its eloquence, that this is also a hunger for the unsuccessful Greeks. Today he comes and says exactly the opposite, canceling himself. I also remember Mr Loverdos, who was responsible for the foreign affairs sector, who said that I'recommend the rejection of the draft law' of the then Minister of the Interior of the Government of Karamanlis on this matter, which would have been resolved since then, because he wanted the majority of the ministers. So you realize that those who go up to Step must be much more careful about what we say. There are some here who remember and I am here, among others, to remind and what each one of us says. Finally, Mr President - and I thank you very much - there is, on the subject of FOSDA, an issue with municipalities hosting refugees and hosting a lot of people. Such a municipality is the island of Lesvos, where you can understand that if Article 226(4) is maintained as you have it, it will find Lesvos in the summer of August with the waste, without a management body and I propose at least exceptionally to islands such as Lesvos, which are facing particular problems and are in some quasi-species, that you keep it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u177	Please finish this, Mrs. Papakosta.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u178	In any case, Mr President, I would like to thank you for your tolerance and say that today and every day from now on, as far as the elections are approaching - to invoke them myself - to know that everyone will be involved in their shadows, in himself and in the way in which they see their face in the mirror. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, Mrs. Papakosta. I will give the floor to Mr Georganta and then the President of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR, Mrs Gennimata, will come to the forefront. Mr. Georgiod, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, Mr President. I will begin, ladies and gentlemen, by reading from the minutes of the committee's third meeting, which examined the draft law, what exactly has been heard about the issue of the release of self-government and parliamentary elections. It says, therefore, a good colleague: 'And here I would like to say this emblematic, which is part of this bill, that the date of the municipal elections is completely cut off from the date of the European elections. Ladies and gentlemen, there was a strange issue here, because it was two elections completely different. In one, local government, citizens are invited to elect their representatives, choose and reward social and political initiatives, taken at municipal level and in the other elections, to vote on their representatives, to a supranational organisation, which is not controlled and which is so far from the average citizen, who cannot understand what is going on there. These two are coming to stress that they must finally be separated. They have nothing to do with being smuggled together. These very nice on 9 month, on Monday afternoon, Mrs Tasia Christodoulopoulos told the committee. I put Mrs Christodoulopoulos in the Minutes. [[At this point Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] That was on Monday afternoon. Today, not only by itself, but also by many others, who were taking part in this great initiative to release the self-government elections from the parliamentary elections, are listening to the opposite arguments about why, in the end, these elections must be'swamped' - the expression is not mine, you hear who said it - and these elections must be held together. The most good thing is that this amendment, the 'parliamentary', signed by sixteen good colleagues of the SYRIZA, but none of them spoke to the committees, to express a reservation, a reflection that these elections must now be held together and not released. No one has expressed any concern, but all of a sudden, the sixteen people together saw the truth, which, of course, the Minister saw, immediately afterwards and accepted an amendment, the feasibility of which we understand and do not need to be self-sufficient in their parliamentary presence, when we know very well what feasibility it is trying to serve. This is in relation to the amendment, so that we do not hear any arguments and great plans on self-government. In relation to the bill itself, I said to the committee something that I would like to repeat today: no bill can succeed if it does not come to satisfy a real need for those to whom it relates, namely, in terms of self-government and citizens. If you ask the country's self-government to 95% of what are the priorities, which the government, the legislature, needs to act in order to facilitate the operation of self-government agencies and improve the lives of citizens, the issue of the electoral system is certainly the last in the priorities. So the last one - obviously the government wanted to start upside down - is what constitutes the only, the highest priority for the government. And why is it the only and highest priority? Because in something we can't control, something we don't have runs and since we didn't get in 2014, which was a good period for us, we certainly won't be able to get now, it's good to degrade it, disintegrate it and it's good, where we can, check it out. This is done in an obvious way, I think. I want to stay in the little time I have in an article, which I personally have, makes me truly an alpine impression. I mentioned it to the committees too. I think it is a shame to be voted on and I am referring to Article 73. For the first time, ladies and gentlemen, the possibility of an advisor, municipal or regional, is legitimised, institutionalised, to be transferred to the other party. Not to be independent because it disagrees with the fact that it has dealt with the programme, which may not be complied with, with the commitments which may not be fulfilled, but which enable it to be translated. Do you understand, especially in small societies, especially in areas where there are micro-stakeholders and personal strategies and choices, what can that mean when Kalikaratis specifically banned it? Now, it is not just forbidden, but forbidden, institutionalised, legalised. After that, many - I want to believe not most - are now involved in the municipal and regional councils with self-interest. Their attitudes by subject, per matter, will have to do with either his own choice or the pressure that can be put on him by those who supported him to choose him, move from one side to another, when it is not the choice and policy that is pleasing to him or the people who supported him. The possibility of independence has done and there has been, the possibility of deletion has always existed, but the possibility of transcription that actually leads to a "fucking" of local government is something unacceptable to be discussed in the Greek Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA either in one way or another, the message has left the Greek people. He's waiting for the first, the second, the third chance, to give it to you and it'll be clear and overwhelming. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Mr. Georganta. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Georgioda, please! The President of the Group of the European Democratic Alliance, Mrs Genomemas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u182	What happens now? Is this downhill that started in the past few days? Does it extend to the Members of Parliament too?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u183	Ladies and gentlemen, the President has gone up to Step, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u184	Mr President, I have asked for the personal floor on what Mr Georgantas said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u185	The President has taken the step. I'll give you the floor right after Mrs. Gennamas. Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you're done. No matter how much tricks you do, no matter how much balls you stand together, people will find you and vote against you. He'll "blacken" you, he won't save you anything! [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] With a rough parliamentary amendment, you are trying to lead to elections of confusion and fraudulentity through the many polls. You are trying to disorientate the Greek people. But the game with the elections is constitutionally inappropriate and morally inconceivable. You play in you players and you stumble, trying to measure your party interest. We warned you, Mr Skourletis, that your Prime Minister would not be bound by your suggestions. He will look at what is of interest to him personally. The Members of Parliament, who are running to catch up on the amendment, also confused Sundays. And so far there are amendments which, instead of promoting decentralisation, lead to even greater concentration. It's all working out. After the economy and the long-term commitments, which you have made, and the unreasonable treatment of major national issues, democracy itself now takes turn. You show in the most embodied way what your perception is and what your practice is for the functioning of the culture and the rules of political game. Even more, you show what we are going to live in the next few days, in the next few weeks and until the elections, whenever they occur. They are all at the service of party salvation and survival, even if they are not in line with the interests of the country. And, of course, it's not the first time we've lived this. We lived it in 2015. Don't forget, it wasn't just the crime scene in the first half of 2015. You did the same then. You have led to a second election in the country, precisely because you have sought how Mr Tsipras will be claimed to your party. But I'm warning you, you're in vain. Designs of desperation! Even your exit with dignity is not capable of planning. The worst thing, however, is that by leaving, you have decided to undermine what is not under your control, even pillars of democracy, such as self-government. Self-government, which should be at the forefront of the country's development effort and support for the weakest, is falling apart. He becomes a hostage, local and not only, with your own responsibility and choice. It is a project aimed at controlling municipalities and regions by whom? Minorities. A plan that leads to the domination of transaction and extortion. A dangerous conservative concept that wants self-government again the "long hand" of the state. We are, of course, used to conservative policies in government. Alone of us in all the years of Postpopulation, against all, we promoted sections and shots. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] For the New Democracy, the institution has always been a tool of party influence and of creating customer relations. Well, you are worthy of conservative right-wing policy followers. He's worthy! He's worthy! It's worthy, Mr. Tsipras, where you're tracking us. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] You will find us against the logic of dismantling everything and the tactics you choose from to the elections, that is, the polarisation operation, which leads to a new division. We will not allow you and the New Democracy, which is suited by this tactic and responds, to create a toxic climate, because this undermines the country's prospects. It is a climate that does not favour the development effort and the investment explosion that the country now needs. It drives investors away, disappoints young people, maintains uncertainty and increases the country's credibility deficit - what we do not need. The more you insist on the logic of polarization and division, as we have seen all previous days, even today in the House, so we will insist on understanding, because it is a one-way path for the interests of the country. Ladies and gentlemen, in 1981 the municipalities and communities of the country were collecting garbage, they were registration offices and were managing cemeteries. The decisions were audited for their purpose, not legality. Of course, all the works were done following the Minister’s actions. Six and a half thousand municipalities and communities were instruments of party interest. We haven't broken all these years just the eggs. We went with vision that took flesh and bone through constant reforms and changes. A few years ago, the PASOK Government proceeded after the "CARAKARATI". We have led to three hundred and twenty-five municipalities and thirteen regions, which today are modern political organisations, which give the battle for development every day, for social cohesion and for the service of citizens. KALIKARATIS supported, through the combination of the municipalities and created the thirteen elected regions. Self-government, therefore, managed to stand up in the crisis, despite the reduction of the state grant and stood alongside the Greeks, to every Greek family that needed it. Of course, it was the one who had to deal with the refugee problem. Today, this institution, which is so necessary, is being tested by SYRIZA - ANEL policy. Responsibilities have been removed, concerning social policy, welfare, the environment and others have been transferred, but no resources, no resources and no staff. Today, the regulations promoted by the government are a mere analogous and confuse to Cleisthen. It is, in fact, enthusiastic and particularly challenging to bring the draft law the name of Klisthena, the founder of the Athenian Republic. This intervention has nothing to do with the reforms that the institution needs today and simply aims to change the way it elects municipal and regional councils. I want to make it quite clear here that we are not defending the current electoral system, as New Democracy does. We are ready to discuss proposals for a fairer and more proportional electoral system, but with an inalienable condition: in addition to greater proportionality, governance, the possibility of municipalities and regions being effective. Because it is not possible, ladies and gentlemen, to accept the paralysis of local authorities with the inability to take decisions, with bargains and blackmail decisions. This will ultimately work at the expense of the citizens themselves, the necessary infrastructure, social intervention and the contribution of the institutions to local development. That is why we have asked the government not to vote for these provisions in the past and finally to open up a serious dialogue with the political forces, but also with the representatives of the government, so that we can reach a fairer electoral system which can be stable for the coming years. He didn't do it. It insists on its technical options. Listen, we don't deny SYRIZA's games to come play our own games. And that's a deep dividing line from the ideological line followed by the New Democracy. Mr. Mitsotakis commits himself to abolishing this law, but not to go forward, but to stay in today or even worse, to go to yesterday. For we do not forget, of course, that the New Democracy party opposed all the major changes that took place in self-government and never put a small one in the effort we made in previous years. On the contrary, he fought against every logic of upgrading the institution. It is no coincidence that the government at the last minute also has two major constituencies, Athens and Attica, as an amendment. Once again, the government legislates fragmentary and intentional laws. Nevertheless, because this is our proposal and responds to the citizens' demand for transparency and better representation, the Change Movement will vote on it. At the same time, of course, we consider it absolutely unacceptable that there should be no provision for the vote of Greeks abroad and the old and young people. You are afraid, ladies and gentlemen of the government, and you are more afraid of the young people who have been forced to leave for real hope abroad. But you're exposed and you'll pay the price. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to uncovering and condemning government plans, what is important and of interest to Greek citizens is the future, a future that will be dealt with, unfortunately, by the truce in the neck that Mr Tsipras passed on to the Greek people. Yesterday's decision by the European Commission is definitively ending the story of a net exit. The committee is still being strengthened. The troika will be here and with broad responsibilities, not only in budgetary and banking, but also in labour, social welfare and public administration. The worst thing is that the comitology and the implementation of all the unacceptable commitments of Mr. Tsipras is linked to the application of the anemic measures on debt and the return of the profits of the central banks from the Greek public bonds. The country, ladies and gentlemen, needs national, development and social awakening. Our overall strategy, which is reflected in the "Greece" project, starts with a central condition: there can be no new development at the site, if the regions are not found with identity, because only in the region is it possible to restructure the productive model, only in the municipality can mobilise productive forces, which are currently inactivating fragmented, only in self-government can a reform of the social state, which is absolutely necessary. How are we gonna make it? The commitment of the Change Movement to the period, obviously after the national elections, is that this time it should not be and there will be no discounts. The changes will not be made, by putting on the scale, on the one hand, the central state and, on the other, self-government, by sharing powers without resources. It's time to dare a revolution. The state is transformed into a final headquarters. The responsibility lies with defence and security policy, public policy, foreign policy, public finances, general planning of health and education and, of course, the protection of our cultural heritage, with a fair system of evaluation and integration of e-government. Based on the principle of proximity, all decisions that can be taken at the nearest level of the citizen can go to the municipalities. The development of the region should be planned, coordinated and implemented by the regions concerned. This requires brave transfer of funds from European regional programmes, as well as real estate tax. As far as the Change Movement is concerned, we want to make it quite clear that, firstly, this law must be abolished as quickly as possible and, secondly, what must be followed is the third wave of reforms in the state and in self-government, as I described before. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that we are saying 'no' to SYRIZA - ANEL'. We say 'yes' to major changes, decentralisation by self-government. It is clear that we are saying 'no' to authoritarian methods. We call 'yes' to democracy. It is clear that we say 'no' to the election cooking, we say 'yes' to the elections here and now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u187	Thank you, Mrs. Gennamas. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the unanimous decision of the Conference of Presidents is to close the sitting at 22.00 hours and to hold an electronic roll-call vote or as this vote will be. So there will necessarily be colleagues who will not speak. Mrs Christodoulopoulos has asked for her personal speech. Here, Mrs Christodoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u188	Mr Georgantas, Member of the New Democracy MEP, reads an excerpt from the committee's position during the debate on the 'CLISTEN' bill. Indeed, in my comment, which I consider to be extremely appropriate, I pointed out that otherwise, with an interesting local one, the voter comes to the local elections and otherwise to the European elections, where interest is in a supranational organisation and the vote has nothing to do with municipal elections. I mean, I didn't say anything inconsistent about that. Firstly, the bill itself excludes only the next elections. European elections will always take place separately from the municipal elections. I note that because this is a misunderstanding. Consequently, what I mentioned in my last position was precisely that politics means weighting the risks, weighing the limits of the conflict and being able to retreat, as the Minister did, by retreating to his previous position, but for once alone, next.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u189	Clearly, Mrs. Christodoulopoulos. Thank you. The Minister of State will now take the floor. It follows Mr Megalumustakas and we continue with the list of speakers. Minister, you have the floor for five minutes. But you will also have some relative tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u190	Thank you, Mr President. It is a little awkward, of course, to accept in Step a political party leader, but from her speech I would like to highlight a central question which has been raised. In 2016, when we changed the electoral law and brought with it the simple analogue, the argument that it did not then vote for simple proportionalness was that - in the opinion of the major constituencies - it was not partitioned. Today the fragmentation of the large electoral districts is a reality and the challenge for the Change Movement is whether he should, if he would like to see his attitude reappear, in relation to simple proportional and electoral law. If it does not, apart from showing that it is pretext for what it says and moves to the verbalism limits, I think it will justify those who are extremely suspicious and consider this motif, the Change Movement is a mere political tail of the most harsh right-wing and neoliberal party, which is the New Democracy. This is a comment. I would like to contribute to the reflection which has been expressed today and yesterday. Firstly, with regard to the break-up, the division of the major constituencies, Athens II and the rest of Attica. First of all, we all agree - or almost all - that this is a mature change in the architecture of the electoral system and the representation. And it is so mature that, on the one hand, it was ready to be voted on by other governments earlier and, on the other hand, it meets the consensus of too many of Parliament's wings. Normally, we shouldn't even have talked about it. And much more, when it comes to a typical case where the change in electoral structure and function does not give rise to suspicions of some kind of favourable - to say so - regulation for a party or for a party. I would like to believe that the New Democracy will finally vote and will be implemented by the next elections. If he does not vote, I think that we are entering a field of political irrationalism, not voting for something that is mature and self-evident, just so that it does not apply next time. On the substance of the matter, I think that, since he agrees, it is not, even in the hypothetical case of tomorrow's government, that he should not apply it. It's something he agrees with. It will therefore leave it untouchable. Therefore, the only thing that we are driving from this sort of "negotiation", which is done by the Greeks abroad, is not to apply the next time. I would therefore like to believe that the New Democracy will not do this and will not go into a reasonable set of setbacks, which would also be an act of anti-parliamentary practice. Because, if we go into a logic, which says that 'I am voting for what I agree with, if the other one happens, which I put to you at the table', as you can see, opens up a whole process from the back door, rather than transparency, parliamentaryism and dialogue, and exchanges, and there everyone could put a lot of things in there. We now go to the issue at issue, which is the vote of the Greeks abroad. The substance is that, of course, I think that methodically, seriously, responsiblely, all these serious issues need to be resolved, concerning the vote of the Greeks and Greeks who live abroad. These are issues that exist. Everyone recognises this, but it is precisely because there are problems - they are technical, they are legal, they are constitutional - which is why those who are currently in a pretext and put it on the table have never applied it and have never brought it to Parliament. What's simpler? It has been recorded by others, and if you want, in a much more sceptic way, a sceptic criticism of the PASOK and New Democracy governments. They never put it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would say, therefore, that since there is a mood and since the New Democracy, of course, in my assessment, is ready, mature to vote for the division of the major constituencies, as comes from the bill, I think we can really speed up this process. An idea would be that it should not be in five months, so that no ideas would be left that someone is talking about it in advance and doing a committee to refer it back, but that we should see it within a much tougher, if you like, timescale. Because I would like to point out here that it sounds like a self-evident arrangement, which is applied automatically. That's not what this is all about. I would like to inform you that the practices of foreigners' vote have a different application from country to country, with huge differences. For example, there are countries such as Denmark, which have been deprived of the right to vote by foreigners who have lived in the last few years. I think that Cyprus is part of this category. Canada, Australia, Great Britain accepts the right to vote for those who are temporarily absent by putting a time cut: five years the Canadians, six Australians, fifteen British. There are countries such as France, which elect Members of Parliament, that is to say, a special category. There are other countries that refer to the Senate, elected by Senators - which do not exist in Greece - that vote in the regions in which they are registered. There are countries that have a letter vote, others that do not want to have a letter vote, because they have seen that there are issues of transparency, secrecy and equality of vote, and there are also - let us not forget it - and countries that give vote to immigrants under specific conditions. After all, for those of whom we are discussing voting in too many cases Greeks abroad, they also have the right to vote in a foreign country. So there is no application, which we could automatically incorporate. It is therefore very right to have an institutional committee, but binding on time, and, secondly, there are very serious issues which should be clarified. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I'll only need two minutes, Your Honor. I come to a final comment on the issues of simple proportionalness to the municipalities and the issues that have been raised. I have therefore done a survey in literature and in the recent remarks - reports by public administration inspectors, which we have had in the last decade. What did I notice? I have noted - and this is recorded in the reports - that 55% of the certified infringements, which are sufficient, concern Grade I or Municipal Enterprises and 16% in Regions and the rest in Ministries, decentralised administrations, legal entities governed by public law and so on. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] Who is responsible for this intrusion? So, where does the responsibility come from? Most of the time in administrative agencies and, secondly, in elected representatives. So what do we got? We have a system that doesn't work very well, that is, it's carrying pathogens. I do not want to talk about corruption because these are not indicators of corruption. They're infringibility indicators, which are something different.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u191	Minister, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u192	Wait a minute, Madam President. It is not perhaps because of the fact that we do not talk very skinally - corruption necessarily of the hereditaries or municipalities as a whole, but because of problems that have to do with the fact that we do not have very good, modern structures, we do not have modern specialities, we do not have flexibility, we do not have continuity. Therefore, all those who are denounced, such as that simply proportional comes to undermine rulership, in fact they do not exist. That is why we have intrinsic cyberprobability problems with the existing system. Because if you think that the present system of municipal elections does not create such issues in the control and quality of the services provided, I think it has not understood, for example, where we are. That is why, despite having combinations of 25% which, however, have the right to have 60% of a municipal council, more and more phenomena have recently been observed, elected mayors or districtlors at risk of losing or losing the majority of municipal councils, despite the fact that the law gives them, not just governmentality, but gives them the whole hegemony to do extensively, let us say, guarantees of policy. So I think we should all look at this in a different way. Simple analogue is a conquest. I close by saying that at night we will have a cycle of serious reforms in our political system and in our electoral systems. We have the simple analogue to the municipalities, the injection of representativeness, and the introduction of the possibility of local referendums. We have the partition of the second constituency of Athens and the rest of Attica. We have the simple analogue at national level and the vote at seventeen. What do we have? We have another architecture in the political and electoral system with participation, with democracy and more rights. And this is a coherent policy, which we will defend in front of the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u193	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, twenty-five American students and four their attendants from the Michigan State University. We welcome you to the House and to Greece. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Now I will give the floor for twelve minutes to Mr Megalumustakas, who is the Parliamentary Representative of the Centroon Union. Here you go, Mr. Big-fashioned, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are coming today, once again, to discuss a very important bill, a bill, which could be part of the administration of this country. However, we as a Centro Association cannot under any circumstances support this. In fact, I would like to go into the Ministerial Council sometime and see how you decide, see what this process is. And I mean to get into a corner - don't get me wrong, not as Minister - and see how you rule this country. One comes and says: we will support the ideas we have had before, and then we will have one, and we will be in favour of simply analogy. And the other one comes and says what? We'll put on a second Sunday to elect a mayor. Is that the simple analogue? Is this the original simple analogue that many SYRIZA speakers have mentioned in their speech? And then come every ANLE Minister who has a different position to say what? What is going on within this Ministerial Council? You are asking - and that is right - that there should be consultation, that there should be cooperation, that there should be a consensus from various political groups, regardless of their ideology. And you're asking for that for the municipalities. You, in your own co-government, what are you doing? For very basic issues you have no common line. I consider this draft law to be very great, and the agreement you have reached in the Prespes. Did you have a common line on these two? You didn't. It's clear. And we're going on. Are you coming into the Ministerial Council and saying that we will bring forty-two amendments - the forty-two I just use it like that, is it not the real thing, say twenty-four, say? - and we'll also bring amendments that we're going to change again, because it's not happening right now, before we vote on this bill, to put the minister in a difficult position. And we're changing over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over. With the new legislative efforts, you are hitting what you have been supporting before. That's all he's got to do. And I have said too many times from this step forward that what is missing from the Greek political scene is seriousness and honesty. You have not shown any faith in the ideas that you had a flag to enter the Greek Parliament. So, what did you do? You made fun of the world. And you continue to mock the world and the rest of Parliament, bringing amendments from the Ministry, which had a bill in the same week. Shame on us! Why, it's also fashionable to use this word from Stepma now. To see what you do to the other serious issues of topicality, of course, I will come back to the bill, as we see that you have gone to discussions with NATO and the Prime Minister say other things to your partner, Mr. Kammenos, the Minister of National Defence, say other things. Funny people, they'll tell you, all over the world, what you're doing. If you have not ensured the right way to govern, how do you ask the others to follow a proper example? "The fish..." they say, "...always from the head stinks." So if you who are the head of the country do not manage to show the way of proper cooperation, how do you expect them to do that and local government? Let's see what's going on with this bill. You're coming to solve one more time. With this bill a problem from its top. Have you ensured everything the municipalities need? Are you all right with financial obligations to the municipalities? Have you had a conversation with local bodies? We think not. That is why you had this micro-group - I will call it a conflict with the CEDEFOP. I'm not saying that one or the other is right, because the solution is always downtown. And this will come after discussion, after a sincere effort to see what is good for our country. This does not solve a problem, creating tensions and dividing local government, with the central political scene. You saw what the reactions were. You've seen what the trouble is. And what are you doing in this bill? You don't do anything innovative. In fact, you come to make some modifications to the previous law and bring as a new idiosyncrasy, a simple analogue, a systolic one. Why, where are you just proportional to two Sundays? The unadulterated, simple analogue, which the Centro Association has as its main point, is one. It is one and it is the one that comes from the first Sunday, where then the groups that have entered with the people's vote are going to sit down and discuss, consult, and then the leader, one, will be found, which will lead the municipality to a positive result. It's not just proportional the second Sunday. And we can't figure out exactly what you want to serve. So if the mayor, who is going out on the second Sunday, is not a man who can discuss, is not a person who can cooperate, is not a man who has the acceptance of the rest of the municipal council and came out there, why have there been some relationships - that we have seen many times in the Greek political scene - and that is why he can be the first, as mayor, how will he be governed, how will the administration be done in this municipality? There's no way. That's what we tell you, with great confidence. Let's go to other issues now. You want to break the districts. In what way? Putting areas on the one side to the other, just to balance the political cost that you have exercised to date, why, for example, in Menidi, do we have more voters while in Vari we do not? Is this a proper design for you? It's not for us at all. All you can do with this is hitting small parties further, depriving them of their voices from various regions of Greece. We don't think that's how you're fighting the dispersal, I don't think that's how you're fighting the patronage. Let's see what you're doing with the migrant Greeks. We have spoken many times, too, with the Members of the Centro Association, but also with the other Members of Parliament, about the phenomenon of Brain Drain, about the people who have left because of the previous ones, who so much blame and say about the pathogens that have been present all these years, both in local government and in the central political scene. You come, with your policy to strengthen this phenomenon of Brain Drain, the exit of young people and the biggest people abroad. Why don't we give them the right to decide today or from today what they want to do in their country? Because they went away violently and didn't leave a choice. When they cannot do their homework here, they cannot support their family, they cannot even make a living, then what other solution do you give them? To leave abroad. We want all these people to have the right to vote today and let us put our heads down, let us work and finally be directly and efficient. That's not how things work. We have said too many times as a Centro Association that what all those who govern must do is have open ears and sensitive eyes, both in society and in Parliament. It is not allowed at the moment in Greece, in Greece of crisis, that so many years the Greeks have been struggling to keep all their weights on their backs, that you go on your own and make wrong decisions. Here I want you to tell me what's going on with the Greek soldiers. It's been a hundred and thirty-four days of hostage. What's your policy? It is shameful for all of us in Parliament that this is still happening. You must definitely act immediately. We expect to see what will happen in the talks that the Prime Minister will make and it is not enough for us to be told by a Turk about the Greek Minister of National Defence that "You are a good boy. I like you... because this was the free translation of what has come out of the media, 'and we will do something.' That's not how we rule, ladies and gentlemen. Unfortunately, you have made the political system laugh all over the country and so, as you go, it will make the Greek political system laugh all over the world laugh. You have to do something to change all this immediately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, actually. Marios Georgiadis from the Centro Association has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u196	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, what they were preparing for 'forty-five masters and sixty students' is now a reality. After the famous and well-known article of Law No.4368/2016, a twenty-seven-seven-seven-seven-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-seven committee, with-six-six-six-six-six-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-s-seven-seven-seven-sighted committee, with-s, with-s, with-sighted, with-sighted., with-sighted., with-wo., with-s.-s., with-s., with-s., with-s.-s., with-s., with-s.-s.-s.-s.-s.-s.-s.-., with-., with-.-.-...................-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-...-.-.-...-....-.-.-................... All these barons, which you say in the title, do not exist, nor even a trace, which really helps solve the problems, which over so many years and decades over which local government has been facing. It's a simple black book of nominations of party homes. The truth, however, is that this draft law reveals the real plan by the SYRIZA Government - ANEL to salvage what is left of it, in view of their electoral dissolution, but at the cost of the complete dissolution of self-government, the municipalities and the regions. I'll be specific. We had with Article 6 - which actually lasted only one day - the decoupling of local government elections by those of the European Parliament and sixteen SYRIZ Members are coming, with a mandate from above of course, and they are again asking for their connection, namely, to take place with us and prejudge us that, in May 2019, we have good things, there is a very great chance of having three-fold elections and for the accuracy quadruple. That, of course, is Mr Tsipras' wish, because if you ask me, it does - it does not make it in winter. We shall now proceed to the matter of mere analogy. Mr. Barca, I know you're not asking me. Clearly, no matter what I say, it doesn't matter, but the truth is, I understand the way in which you want to put all the ballots together, because the continuous defeaters during the course of the year hurt a lot. Better taste defeat on a Sunday for all four themes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u197	So far, in all elections, we have been winners.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u198	So far, yes. We'll see. The people will speak, because the people did not understand what you have done all this three years. Now that he understands it and woke up, he'll punish you. We shall now proceed to the matter of mere analogy. We, who are a party that is permanently in the simple analogue position, cannot support this proposal for just one reason: the simple analogue, as it works in all the countries of the world, must end in one Sunday. It's like you're telling me now that one Sunday we're going to have national elections for the party we prefer, and next Sunday we're going to put which Prime Minister we prefer. These things can't be done. If you want to apply it as it applies everywhere. The second Sunday, all that is intended, is to lead to a conflict between the two greats, who are likely to be between SYRIZA, New Democracy or PASOK, or whatever the last ones will not enter the next Sunday, find themselves in a dead end and recommend abstention or take revenge against the first one, because they will not clearly want him to come out. This is an issue that we are sitting on, and there is no possibility of voting and supporting simply proportionally if this is not completed on the first Sunday. We are now going to something worse, which is in Articles 73 and 101, with the possibility of any regional or municipal consultant with a simple resignation, with a simple statement, without any consequence, leaving his combination and going to someone else. In fact, you don't just do it on a personal level. You're doing this and teamwork. Maybe the whole combination will go away and we'll keep having new majorities. In other words, you are establishing a group apostasy so that the conditions for trade and exchange will also be created in local government. So you press corruption as 'first time left'. Not to mention appointments. Supervisor OTA: Fifteen new posts will be available in each OTA. Seventy-one municipal and regional positions - he says - of ombudsmen with a wage at 80% of the director-general. observatory of Economic Self-Government: You want to appoint an unknown number of lawyers. Roofets, ruffles, ruffles! Instead of pressing what the previous ones have done, you come and you amplify them. We shall now proceed to the amendment on the fragmentation of the regions. We are negatively perpendicular to this because very simply a small party can have the same number of seats, but all its parliamentary power will be concentrated in the regions of Attica and Thessaloniki. This will remove this party and the MPs from the province and in general from its contact with society. I continue with the amendment concerning the committee's drafting of a proposal for the vote of non-attached voters. We are clearly in favour of finally giving voting rights to the abstaining Greeks who have left, now, immediately, not tomorrow, not after one, two, three, five, ten - I do not know what you have in mind - elections. To give voice to the young people who left abroad, to prove that we are interested in them and - most importantly of all - to give them the right to build the ground and prepare it to go home because of you. You kicked them out.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u199	SYRIZA?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u200	Much of SYRIZA, Mr. Barca. Do you disagree? Look at your phone. You don't disagree. Ladies and gentlemen, for us the draft law that you have brought all it can do is a huge short-circuit in municipalities, regions that are at the moment generally feeling the SYRIZA dolphin tighten them up. It will remain in history as the bill of apostasy and extortion - and be sure of it - of trade and trade. The Centro Association will not participate in this, and we will clearly vote against this draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, Mr. Georgiadis. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u202	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to mention an amendment, accepted by Mr Baron, under the general number 1690 and by a special 79. I also want to table a series of legislative improvements relating to the whole bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u203	Mrs Stamatakis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u204	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the institution of local government in Greece has experienced numerous reforms since the 1980s. The main objective in the post-government years was to strengthen the role of municipalities in relation to central power and administration. Local government since its creation has been at its core the characteristic of proximity. "Your complaints to the mayor," the people say and it's no accident. KALIKARATIS was a turning point that changed the size scale of the municipalities and removed the mayor from the public and citizens. So the demand is the essential involvement of local society directly or indirectly in small and large local issues. In addition, two are the main objectives of the institution: the first is better management of resources and the provision of public services, and the second is the better representation and involvement of citizens in the definition of specific local public needs and in the planning of their coverage. So local government can be the most participatory democratic institution, close to problems and everyday life in the city, where every citizen lives, works and spends his free time. Today the institution is self-centered, centralised and dysfunctional. The mayor is essentially a government in the city, away from the citizen and his problems. The creation of a culture of democracy, understanding, which takes over passions and brings logic, pluralism of opinions and ideas to the fore. It makes society rich in thought and cooperation. We are overthrowing the dominatorial system, strengthening the representation of local societies, reintroducing communities and strengthening them. Ladies and gentlemen, we have valued the experience of 'Kalikaratis', which is a bureaucratic and complex administrative model with many distortions and problematic procedures. Based on this criticism, ‘CLOSITE I’ is the first of a number of reform legislations to deepen democracy, strengthen participation and improve the development of TAs. It's not something that comes up all of a sudden. Our government has made a number of concessions in public spaces to the municipalities, created new financing mechanisms for the projects, institutionalised through the law on Kalos the possibility of using and exploiting municipal buildings by productive bodies governed by the cooperative principles. It has shown that it has the will to transfer powers and resources to the municipalities and to strengthen the participation of citizens in the administration and control of public institutions. With a decisive reform step, we set the foundations for a truly decentralised participatory management model. It is therefore a simple analogue, a consistent demand for the country's progressive and left-wing political forces, an electoral system of law, democracy, a system that favours cooperation, consensus and planning convergences. The simple analogue will bring a number of new perceptions to the municipalities. The mayor, who is today the local ruler, will no longer be able to make his own decisions. We are no longer creating technical majorities that exclude minority opinion. Simple analogues will revive the citizens' relationship with local government, introduce greater transparency into local issues management and ultimately have multiple benefits for local society. Simple analogue does not favour the clientele system, opens the debate on local issues in a very wide range. There's a lot of good news about this bill. It is envisaged that municipal and regional referendums are established, that the procedure for participatory budgets is laid down, that buildings belonging to the municipalities are granted for the bodies of social solidarity. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, I need a little more time. But in my view, three are the very important issues that go into this bill: One is the quota of women at 40%. Strengthening the female presence can revive the exercise of the administration and strengthen the culture of cooperation and grouping. It was a vindication of the times of the women's movement and I hope at some point that soon we will reach 50-50. I believe that, in order not only for women to remain on paper, but also for 40% of women to be involved in elected bodies, there should also be a large campaign on the initiative of the Ministry of Interior and the General Secretariat of Equality, but especially of women's organisations, so that we can have 40% of women represented in the new municipal councils. You know, ladies and gentlemen, the view of women in the city organisation is different. Already since the 1980s, the female movement had made proposals, made interventions. And it would really be different cities, it would be different streets, squares, playgrounds if this view of women was included in the organization and planning of cities. The second important point introduced in this bill is the functioning and action of the Immigration Integration Council. There was also in the previous law, but it was completely consultative. With this bill, the Immigrant Integration Council will have responsibilities, it will be able to recommend and propose to the City Council and really contribute to solving too many problems that immigrants currently have, which you know there are too many in our cities. Finally, a great deal of effort is being made to make a more efficient, more rapid and uniform exercise of the responsibilities for the administration of citizenship and naturalisation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u205	Finish, my colleague, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u206	You know, ladies and gentlemen, when it passes the whole process and an immigrant can be posted in the polls for five months until he becomes an immigrant. So today's bill has very important issues to resolve, and in that sense it must be voted on by all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u207	Ladies and gentlemen, I appeal to you for time. I know, and I've been over him, but at least as many people as possible can talk. Mr Tsakalis, then Mr Amyras, as a parliamentary representative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u208	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA's positions on the 'CALL' have been known for years. This draft law attempts, on the part of the government, an important part of this institutional framework aimed at strengthening the functioning and improving the effectiveness of local government, but also at substantially encouraging citizens to participate in the public. The aim is to re-evaluate basic assumptions of "KALIKARATIS" by making use of the experience of its almost ten years of implementation and without the so-called "new architecture of self-government" attempting to cover the serious deficits that have emerged and characterised the previous attempt. These deficits are identified in terms of democracy, the proportionality of representation that directly affects the participation of citizens, the possibility of social control, the transparency of resource management, the equal distribution of resources between cities, towns and villages. It is therefore attempting to make a serious qualitative change by categorizing the municipalities that seek to treat the asymmetry that emerged from the "CALIKARAT". In Pieria, for example, of the thirteen capodist municipalities we passed into three calli-states. The capital of the prefecture, Katerini, the seat of the homonymous municipality, absorbs most of the resources available, while local communities are faced with a number of problems mainly in the road network, in lighting, in cleaning, etc. because this is permitted by the existing institutional framework. In amending this framework, ‘CLINEN I’ contributes to the economic viability of local government, since resources are parametered with social characteristics and will be allocated on the basis of other criteria. Of course, the leading change with the draft law is the introduction of simple proportionalness and strengthening the collective operation of the self-government bodies. With the introduction of simple proportionality, municipalities enter a new era characterised by political culture, increased responsibility, substantial consultations, necessary planning convergences and compositions. With the introduction of the simple analogue, the mayors will cease to be emperors and the majority members will often cease to stand and vote contrary to their conscience. This, apart from democratic ones, is also essential, because municipal councillors will be removed from client-type obligations, from attempts to deal, from necessities, impurities, etc. It goes without saying that the introduction of mere proportionality with the argument that there will be ineffectiveness and inefficiency, which, in the developed rhetoric, are not balanced by the only so-called government argument about the equivalence of vote. This rhetoric contradicts the argument that both governance and efficiency can exist with simple analogues, as is the case in 80% -90% of European countries. Opposition does not want to change the imperial mentality of the almighty mayors, who have become almighty for the sake of a kindling electoral system. This always produces poetry and arrogance, which do not only affect personalities, but also affect many other serious issues, such as the way in which available resources are managed, the award of projects, the management of the human resources of the municipalities, etc. The rhetoric of counter-population completely hides the substance, i.e. the unadulterated expression of the will of the citizens, as an element of popular sovereignty. The need for an unadulterated expression of the will of the citizens may not be readable to the large, by population, municipalities in the country. In small municipalities, however, this distortion operates on a daily basis, divides citizens, causes feelings of injustice and raises and produces customer relations. It often opens up issues of lack of transparency and suspicion of dubiousness. These poison the social and political life of local communities and have a direct reflection on the central political life and scene of the place, since the municipal groups do not come from virginity, but are a covert or uncovered extension of the parties. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the representation crisis also means a crisis of democracy in the core cell, local government. I believe that this alone is a suitable treaty to convince any kind of goodwill in the Chamber about the need to establish a mere proportionality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u209	Thank you for the time too. We must also award prizes for the maintenance of time! Mr. Amyras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, Madam President. You'll see that I'll talk less than eight minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, ancient Cleisthenes may have grown up in the 6th century before Christ and, in essence, modern democracy, but I do not want to go back to the old. I want to make a little trip to the future and go not on a distant horizon, but in ten months from today, we should go on Sunday, May 26, 2019. It is Sunday in the European elections, the day when the polls for local government will be set up, according to the correct resumption of the amendment of the sixteen Members. Because they may not have reached the date, but the day they got it the first. The second hit the date. So for her, on Sunday, May 26th, I want to talk to you. And here I am, of course, asking Mr. Skourlet. Is Sunday 26 May going to be the day of national elections? Because you said, dear Mr Skourletis, that the self-government would coincide with the national elections. You meant October?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u211	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u212	Now that we're going May, isn't it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u213	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u214	You categorically say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u215	First we'll break the New Democracy!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u216	Okay. Mr. Spirtz is in good shape. Mr. Skourlett, I see him as more crowded. He knows something more. Or he doesn't share it. So let's go on Sunday 26 May. We will have elections for a municipality, we will have a district, we will have for a European parliament, perhaps - I say, since it is a'single', Mr Skourletis - we will also have a parliament. I get it on me. So the next Sunday, on Monday, May 27th, we will have a new government, we will have three hundred new MPs, we will have twenty new MEPs. With mayors and district managers, I'm not sure, but let's assume that a lot of people will be elected on the first Sunday. Let's go to the second Sunday of municipal elections.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u217	Alcohol is in the middle of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u218	Yeah. Alcohol is in the middle of it. So let's go on our trip and see what the scene will be like one week after the municipal elections, provided we have the simple proportional vote. I see that we will, unfortunately, have a kind of insolence everywhere. I, my dear Mr Skourletis and Mr Spirtzis, was fanatically in favour of mere analogy to local government until a municipal councillor was elected in 2010 in the Municipality of Athens, on my own municipality. There I have seen the incredible, I will say very well, a mess of local government, where the orders between them cannot agree on the basics, the undeclared work of a child's station to agree, and we are leading to an uncertainty.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u219	Then who did you have mayor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u220	I'll tell you. Mayor, we had Kamine at the time, it was his first year. But here's what happened once you mention it. In the second month of our term of office, that is, in 2011, there is a conquest of the municipality by contract workers in the city and all the members and municipal councillors of the Kamin party decide, just to say, to do the duck. They left the city hall in occupation and somewhere he had to meet the city council. She finally met in Ghazi. If I didn't go on my own Municipal Party, there wouldn't be a quorum, because they had gone and two of Kamine had been plunged, so the municipality would be closed from then until today, I'm signing it to you. Why am I saying that? Because by entering the municipal council with 1%, perhaps, I see it from the deed, from my experience, we are introducing an element of uncertainty into the minimums of the understanding that must exist. The central political scene is different, because the Constitution gives some solutions. He tells you that you have exploratory orders with the President of the Republic, you have the fermentation of parties to form an alternative government, and in the end, if there is no result, then we will go to new elections. In the municipalities, however, there is no such thing. What's gonna happen for four years? Who's gonna be a hostage of whom? So here I say that while it would be ideal, in practice it cannot be done, that is to say to many different groups, with different incentives for the entry of each of them into the field of local government. We also see what is happening in the central political scene. Mr Kammens Monday - Wednesday - Friday he throws the government and Tuesday - Thursday he supports it. In the morning he gives an extraordinary press conference and says "I will drop the government if the Macedonian goes through", and in the evening he says that "I will support this government to the end". It doesn't mean we're burdening what Mr. Kammenos says, on the contrary. Whatever he says doesn't matter, he's unreliable. But it causes a climate of uncertainty, it causes a political instability which only good does not bring about. How many - and many - will these little regulators of 1% to 2% in the morning will support the mayor and this afternoon will they be throwing him in proportion to their moods or small interests? What is the justification from my perspective for this arrangement? It's just that it reminds me of a player in the backgammon who's pissed because he loses the game, closes the wallet and breaks it. That's what this piece of legislation reminds me of. SYRIZA knows that it has no power in local government, it is limited power, and, why not, through mere analogy to have an active and very strong reason for what is left in the municipalities. Ladies and gentlemen, what serious person wants to deal with and offer his place will he now easily decide to become involved in local government and elections when he will know that he will be hostage to every contributor, anyone who thinks with 1% that he can, and possibly, regulate financial or other situations within the municipalities? So, to use a term of Cleisthenes, with the new system you are extinguishing the skilled and leaving the way, I think, to lawlessness and chaos and to the vantagers. We do not need to be masters to predict what will happen in the future, nor do we need a special analysis. I'm afraid Cleisthenes wouldn't be happy with today's legislation at all. What's the river saying? He's talking about a weighted analog. Yeah, we mustn't have the first elementary party take everything, get 60% of the seats. No, this rate needs to be reduced and the odds in this way of the governance of each municipality and region need to be increased. That is why Potami supports the weighted analogy. And I wasn't going to mention it, but just before I went to Stepma, an e-mail came from Lefkimmi, from Lefkimmi to Corfu. You know what's going on with the trash there. I'm really shocked, and I want to keep it in mind of the Interior Minister if he listens to me. If you're resident in Lefkimmi and you want to go to your field, you have to sign a responsible statement to the police. Do you think that? I've got it and I'll testify to it in the Minutes. A lady, therefore, to go to her field, had to sign this responsible statement to the police and accompanied by a police officer to go to her field by writing: "I declare with responsibility that I own a plot near the HYTA of Corfu Island, as well as, I have placed a dog and for these reasons it needs, I have to go almost daily to my field." With a responsible statement and a police escort! These are the issues of local government, ladies and gentlemen, and I would like to see how we deal with them. [[At this point, the Member, George Amyras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In conclusion, we will vote against the simple analogue. We will be voting in favour of the fragmentation of the large regions, but you should also continue to partition in the Second Thessaloniki and, of course, you should have brought the vote of the Greeks abroad. I have, of course, a suspicion that my dear friend, Mr. Spirtzi, will not like. The reason why the government does not want to give votes to the Greeks abroad - I am not talking about the five hundred thousand Greeks who have left for the last six, seven, eight years and continue to leave Greece - is because a Greek who left Greece had drowned him in an indestructible and dispersed with what he was living, in a new organized, civilised economic and working environment can compare, can do in and out the comparisons, and that is where I think that the vote will really be 'black' vote for those who led this new or an older age to leave Greece. So, I am 'converging' is the fold that I fear the SYRIZA - ANEL government is avoiding, as the hell is the ink. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, Mr. Amyras. Now, Mrs. Brandza will take the floor from SYRIZA and then Mr. Kalafatis and Mr. Barkas will follow. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I imagine we all agree that the draft law under discussion is extremely important and essential and its importance is that it is attempting to regulate issues relating to the first degree of organisation, operation and management of society. At this level concepts are simpler, are more understandable and more direct. I therefore believe that we are able to create a sound and effective first degree of administration and I hope that at some point we will have a sound and effective political system. More important, of course, and from what KLITHENIS regulates is what it marks. The basic principle of old-fashionedism has been "do not upset water, do not make changes that may have a political cost". With this principle, the country has gone and so we have arrived here, namely the complete depreciation of the political system and democratic institutions, the despair of the despicability and fraud, which we have called intelligentness and competence and ultimately the economic collapse of the country and the underseason of the future of its citizens. It is not surprising that there are many reactions to this draft law. Evidently, when a regime is overturned logically and humanly, the anti-regulators react. But it is at least hypocritical that both major opposition and a portion of the self-government actors claim that "CLITHENIS" will destroy self-government. The spear of the reactions is the electoral system envisaged for the promotion of municipal councillors, the mere proportional nature. The New Democracy's reaction is expected and compatible with its ideological identity. Where this is really confusing - and other speakers have said - it is in the reaction of the other democratic forces, which, even now and when we voted on the simple analogue to the national elections, they voted against. What did the rapporteur of the New Democracy say, however, since Mr Vorides was very muddy? Mr. Vorides said, "Have you been told that the problem is the electoral system? Why do you not deal with bureaucracy?" First of all, many people have told us that the problem is the electoral system. As far as bureaucracy is concerned, if anyone is trying to read the bill - obviously it is great - it will see that there are too many provisions that are dealing with it, with the fight against this monster of bureaucracy. But what I would like to ask you and Mr Voridis, who has been the minister of a party that has ruled the country for many years, is this: did you not get any news about bureaucracy? What did you do then? Don't you know who, how and above all why he created the bureaucracy in the country? Unless we believe that this is also the creation of SYRIZA for the three and a half years it's been running. Mr Vorides also told us that a mere analogue is an ideal because of our communist past. I don't know what to lead. Evidently, simply proportional is not ideality. Simple analogue is democracy, is equality, is fairness and does not distort - above all this - the popular will. The big argument against the bill is the infamous rulership, which will be lost, when the capital of 20% will not get 60% of the council's seats and will not be the absolute ruler, of course, with foreign ribbons. History has shown that this kind of governance has been harmful to too many bankrupt municipalities in the country and ultimately for citizens and the national economy. I would remind you that the institutions, which you also admire or admire until recently, have attributed the country's bankruptcy to two main areas: local government and health, if that is what something tells you. We believe that all those who want to'save' a place, if the people decide to cooperate, should do so. If they are unable to complete this mandate, they will leave room for those who are capable and willing and able. The argument that it is not society is ready and extremely insulting for the citizens. Some political forces and, in particular, political persons are trying to keep their fingernails and teeth on the society, obviously for their own benefit in the narrow or wider sense. Here is another of our many differences. We believe in the citizen and we are not afraid to put him before his responsibilities, as are we politically subjects. What is really at stake from the simple analogue is the institution - let me have a condition that is not a pedigree, but I think it is characteristic - the 'damaging master' and the lifelong 'aerobic', a caption of a local rule, which is always made up of the winner, and which is, I think, resurrected from dealing with commons. This model of politics is known, I think, to everyone and especially to the province. The serious and effective self-government, which, in my opinion, is most of them, is not at risk from simply proportional. As far as the electoral basis is concerned, Minister, I think that there should be an election base, in order to avoid that, for the sake of the perpetrators of politics, which creates most problems. Finally, in the question of whether all problems with 'CLINKEN' are solved, the answer is no. Obviously, there is much more to be solved. However, the principle is being created and solutions are being given, some immediate solutions are being made and the conditions for medium and long-term improvements are in place so that we have a local government which is modern and effective. Of course, opposition is opposition to the opposition, bad, old-fashioned. On the occasion of this bill, the possibility of the vote of Greeks abroad was on a major issue, of course, in the national elections. The New Democracy, which renounces us, has not dared to legislate. We will, however, do so, but we must first discuss and agree on which Greeks we speak about. For everyone? For those who occasionally came out, exactly because of the economic crisis in the country? For the first, second, third generation immigrants? For those who are only on the electoral lists and live decades abroad? Obviously, if we agree, then we will also institutionalise the Greeks' vote abroad. A debate should, in my opinion, be opened for the heterogeneous people. I think it is absurd for small municipalities of five hundred inhabitants to finally be four thousand and to be citizens living in other municipalities, but they have their electoral rights there. Most of all in mountains and island cities this happens. I also believe in the economic self-sufficiency of the municipalities, which unfortunately is not achieved today. Of course, this requires greater reform, so that tax revenue goes to the municipalities and is then distributed to the citizens. Today we are talking about 'CLEARED I'. Obviously, II, III and I don't know anything else. As for the partition of the second Athens, we dare. You have not even dared that, which you all agree should have done. The size of the bill is many. It's not just the simple analogue. I should like to mention the referendums, the committee on supervision of powers, programme contracts with public bodies for technical support, the categorisation of municipalities. It's a lot, it's the development potential that is being given to the municipalities. All this has been shown in detail by many colleagues. I won't say it now. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing.]] I will close, since my time has passed, reminding us of the promise to get the country out of the vortex. This has been done and is typically completed in about a month's time. The next bet, which is very serious, is reorganisation, reorganisation of the state, so that it works for the benefit of citizens, serves them and respects them. This draft law serves precisely this objective and I invite you to vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u223	Thank you. Mr. Kalafatis from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today a bill which reminds us of a more morbid political scenario of state degradation than reform. Already, with his testimony to the House, he produces an important political result. It fully deserves the New Democracy and its President, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, in the prediction that the next national elections will have as a major challenge and the quality of our democracy. It also shows how hypocrisy it is behind the term "progressive", with which the SYRIZA executives want to define themselves. Not progress, but even regression cannot be described as this bill. Only the term ‘demolition’ fits it and the term ‘crime’. SYRIZA can't bike self-government and he's trying to haunt her. Even if this abortion is voted on, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, it will be abolished by the New Democracy as soon as it assumes responsibility for the country's governance. And don't think you'll catch up with the self-government elections in May. You won't last till then. You'll escape and all you'll have left will be an image of a grief. It is a craving fact that the Minister accepted an amendment that was brought to him by sixteen Members, which provides for the opposite of what he was saying. Because there are - and there are many - the Minister's statements that the European elections and the self-government elections must not be held together. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that I also have a self-government status as head of the major opposition in the Municipality of Thessaloniki. So from within, I am well aware that the mere analogous to the self-government elections leads to a substantial abolition of the self-government of the municipalities. Self-government will have the title but not the status, because the implementation of the mere proportional to the self-government election does not strengthen democracy, as SYRIZA claims. On the contrary, it destroys her. And I'll explain right away why. The basic rule of modern democracy is the ability of the majority to run and implement the programme for which it was voted on. The mere proportional effect of this basic rule on a number of impacts: firstly, it leads to the fragmentation of the electorate to the extent that it becomes impossible to form the administration without more combinations, in the best case, transactions will be political, which positions you will give me to support you, and we will see anti-Majors outside the majority of the majority. Secondly, it provides an alibi of irresponsibility to the mayors and to the groups from which they come, because every time each mayor can invoke the need for compromises with other parties that do not allow for the full implementation of his election promises. So every mayor will be able to say what he wants and then with a comfort to undo his promises, because he will invoke exactly that reason I told you. Thirdly, we will see the mayors coming from the second to the election force a combination that will be called upon to manage fragilely fragile so-called majority of cooperating resignations. And no, it cannot be regarded as a majority of the sum of heterogeneous minorities starting from even opposite political, ideological and programming startings. Fourthly, it paves the way for the hat of the elected municipal councils from the centrally guided decisions of the OTA supervisors, those dreaming of SYRIZA installing the municipalities, obviously with the model of the secularly doomed regimes. And so, ladies and gentlemen, we end up with the abolition of self-government, with the decisive role of a donor of central power. Add also the provisions that cause upsetting the way in which citizens are taxed and also economic strangulation in the municipalities. That's how democracy is being undermined. But that wasn't enough for SYRIZA. Another thing had to be done to strengthen political bulb and political corruption, because in such a wave what alternative does SYRIZA's "CLISTHENS" give to the bustling of ancient Klisthene? The transfer of municipal councillors from a party to an order. Because the Constitution on the governance of the country provides that, with the loss of the parliament declared, we are dismantling and going to elections without impasse. In self-government, however, there is nothing like that. It will thus be locked up in every municipality within an insolence, transaction and corruption. And it is the SYRIZA - ANEL co-government itself who intends to vote for this abortion which denounces MEPs who change a party, not all of course. Those who turn to coexistence are ideologists. Only those who abandon it are apostates. What a beautiful strengthening of democracy, really! Ladies and gentlemen, respect yourselves and democracy. Don't vote for this bill, don't avenge the Greeks anymore, because they don't see the time to leave. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u225	Mr. Barkas has the floor from SYRIZA. Mrs Marcou will then speak. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u226	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to say that we need to be a little standard when it comes to the Members' speeches. Members have the first word in plenary. The phenomenon of the transfer of speakers from the previous day to the next day, because it is not the environment good, or because the time they speak is difficult, I think it should be stopped. I am also given the opportunity to address national issues, which have been discussed these days, with regard to this draft law. I hope that the New Democracy will also not change its position on a national issue, such as relations between Greece and Albania once again. For in recent years, the phenomenon has been observed, and with the signing of the Prespecies Agreement, the New Democracy has changed its fixed positions and drawn up in the past few years, and I was also the government itself, as regards the nomenclature for the neighbouring country. I imagine, however, that we will not be serious about the proposal made by Mr Düsseldorf on the lifting of the Treaty of Lausanne. I hope that Mr. Publicsakis does not consider us to be foolish, saying that we are changing what he said from Orestiad at a time of political bluetongue. What did Mr. Publicos actually do? It intervened in a top agreement setting the geographical limits of our countries. Everyone recognizes them. But he is one of them, like the Turkish extremists on the other hand, who do not recognise the Treaty of Lausanne. So I think we should be very serious about these issues. I am pleased that Mr Yoyakas is also in the Chamber, and he will, I imagine, be able - in his speech to remind us of the relationship between our country and the neighbouring country. Also, on the basis of the bill we are discussing, Mr Yoyakas will remember the transfer of voters from a neighbouring country to our country when national elections are held. I imagine, you remember, Mr Yoyaka, or have you heard of the transfer of voters with coaches to Thesprotia to vote and the next time they leave. And I want to come to the subject of the homosexual vote. This is one of the things New Democracy and PASOK did, Mr Yoyaka. You have charged "OLYMPIAKI", putting people on a charter to transfer them from abroad to Greece to vote. That's all you've done for the vote of the homosexuals. You charged these to ‘OLYMPIAKI’. Then comes Mr Hatzidakis, your Minister, and sells OLYMPIAKI - he gives it, that is - saying that someone charged it. You charged her, you just don't remember it. That is one of the few things you have done in terms of the vote of the homosexuals. Look, it's clear that out of the two hundred fifty articles, which have this bill, you are standing in one in which you packet in the simple analogue. Why? Because you say that the simple analogue will lead local government to the creation of power and economic relations between voter and chief or candidate municipal councillors and mayors. And now it's all good. Because, Mr Yoyakas, you as Prefect did not do colleges, dealings. You didn't do anything! Mr. Psomadis, who ate 1.2 million euros from the Prefecture of Thessaloniki, came out with the simple analogue. That is why he ate only 1.2 million from a communications programme. Because it was simply proportional, not because it came out with a system that you voted on. That's your problem. But why don't we talk about all the other articles in the bill? Why don't we talk about the fact that there is now a better participation of all the citizens, of the people who participate in the municipalities, through control, by the general assemblies? Has any of you been to the municipal council meetings, where there is only the municipal council and no one underneath and the mayor gets out, makes a proposal and votes for all the majority municipal council advisers? Is that the democracy that you defend? I want to say something about the vote of the Greeks who live abroad. There are points and points which we can discuss. The fact is that many young people over the last five years - eight years because of the crisis have left abroad. But I think - and this is a personal point of view - that it is different for the Greeks of the last eight years who have left because of the crisis and that is the people who since the 1950s and 1960s live abroad. They too have, of course, left because of the poverty of the state at the time. But at the moment, there are fifty and sixty years abroad. So I think we need to find models that exist and operate in other countries of Europe. England, for example, has the twelfth year. If you spend the 12 years, your ability to vote automatically ceases. I would like to say one last thing about the amendment brought by the Minister responsible for the timing of the elections. Listen, colleagues of the New Democracy, when you put your mayors on the New Democracy, to threaten the committees in the debate on the bill that "we, when voting on the bill, will apply for unconstitutionality", do you think that the Ministry will leave it in our view?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u227	Finish, Mr. Barca.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u228	I shall conclude, Madam President. Did I go to seven minutes? I'm sorry. We have a democracy in our country. So the Minister hears what the mayors' organs say. He listens to the proposals of the mayors and brings the amendment. I think that following the mayors, who are familiar with you, you will vote on this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u229	Thank you, too. Mrs Marcos, because the President of the Union of Centres, Mr Leventis, has requested the floor, and in the meantime I give the floor to Mr Vardakis for a minute for an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u230	Minister, please accept the amendment that, under the proposed provision, allows the granting and use of regions' movable and immovable property to economic operators, which fulfil the conditions of Law 4430/2016, for the accommodation and the fulfilment of their statutes under the relevant legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u231	Please, Mr Leventis, you have the floor for 15 minutes. Please respect him completely.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u232	We will see how the speech comes out, Madam President. It's not easy. Because I don't read the speech, I can't time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u233	I have this problem too, but we must slowly adapt.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u234	Yes, sir. First of all, I should like to welcome those who are discussing today, the President, the Ministers and the ladies and gentlemen of the House. A year and a half ago we discussed in the Chamber this simple analogous to the parliamentary elections. At that time I had made two - three dates with Mr Tsipras, and I had explained my objections to the partitioning of the regions, which he had considered reasonable. Now the government comes and brings the division of the regions. So the Prime Minister either wasn't honest with me or he's a computer and he's just doing his job where he finds out. Wherever he finds out and finds out, he allies in order to do his job. Let's explain. I had asked him what the gain is from partitioning the regions. He said to me, "What are you afraid of?" "Don't worry what I'm afraid of. What is the profit?’ I asked him. "The regions are large. Some people think corruption is going on" he answered. The Karditsa, who has five seats, has no corruption? Can't a croissant go there and take out the MPs he wants? Influencing the channels, buying them all? Can't he? Are we sure that democratic order is being respected in Evritania alone? Aren't the rules of the channels, the money, the rosés, the transaction? Aren't they in one-sided? What is the aim of the partition? Have you wondered why the legislator left it a great deal of this region? That's a whim, isn't it? He did this to participate in this region some of the personalities of all the sites. In the polls each party puts simple people and just members of the party, but you put - if you have - and candidates who have some parchment, poetry, natural science, mathematics, etc. If a party has a whole-man acquaintance, that's where you have to include them. And the people decide. It's not a periphery you knock door-to-door for throwing papers underneath. Besides, even in Evrytania, it is two hundred fifty villages. Even where it's one-sided, the candidates can't even go to one-six of the villages. In the elections you collect the fight that has precedes it. You don't collect the match you're doing that twenty-nineday, which isn't even 20 days from the day the combinations were declared, 14, 15 days are. And some parties, because they announce on the last day their combinations, they don't even have two weeks. What will the candidate do in two weeks? I therefore consider the fragmentation to be brought by Mr. Tsipras to pete Mrs. Gennimata's ears. Now he's having an alliance with Mrs. Gennamas, Mr. Tsipras. And you know why she's doing with Mrs. Gennamas? Because he thinks he's going to be able to pervert the double Genuines - Mitsotakis. She will not be able to pervade it, because in the vote she gave the first vote on the simple analogue vote Mrs Gennamas kept Mitsotakis in the prime ministership. If Mrs. Gennamas had added the power of PASOK since then in the simple analogue, we'd have spent it with the motto. He'd get ninety seats. And thirty-five and thirty-eight could get it. He would, however, take a certain number of seats. But now with the bonus, the New Democracy's government hopes. Mrs. Gennimata has committed a great crime against democracy with the vote she first gave for the simple analogue because she keeps the motto in the game. If they now knew in the New Democracy that whatever percentage they'd get, they'd get ninety seats, we'd pay off with their dreams. But now we're keeping their dreams alive. And now Mr. Tsipras is on his way to the genome, thinking he's gonna break the fold. That's not breaking up. Up to three years ago, the genome was partners with the New Democracy, and I'm sure it will be the next day of the elections. Who else can you make a village with? No one else. The Centro Association cannot make a village, because your Chief is the son of a man who overthrowed the government of the Union of Centres. As long as I live, I cannot consent to such an act, no matter how good I do. To explain. So that's where you'll turn, Mrs. Gennamas. Tsipras, however, who agreed that the fragmentation of the regions was of no value - had no argument - what is he now coming to do? He's coming to thank who? To please the New Democracy? But the New Democracy has stated that the first bill it will make, if it wins power, is to bring the enhanced one. That's what the New Democracy said. I don't know if he can do this with two hundred, but it'll be the first bill he'll bring to the vote. He's given you the answer. I want to say two words for the simple analogue, for the municipalities. Simple analogue means - it was next to me in the CEDEFOP by Mr. Skourletis - that the people should go to vote, give 20% to the first, 15% to the second, give percentages, and then gather the consultants who will come out of each combination in a room to elect the mayor. The second Sunday is a knockout system, which is from the first two who will come out. It's the second Sunday anti-analogic system. So, what are you doing now? You laugh at the notion of mere analogy. You name a bill that the seats will be divided in proportion to the percentage they are - and you bring the second Sunday to eliminate what you enter, with a knockout system between the first two, obliging the fans and crowds of the third, fourth, fifth combination to choose from the two capitals. Mr. Skourletis returned to me and said: “You are right. This is the simple analogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u235	This is the second time you've said it and lied.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u236	If I'm right, why are you bringing this abortion here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u237	This is the second time you've said it and lied.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u238	I'm lying?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u239	Of course, you're lying.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u240	I'm sorry about you!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u241	And I'm for you!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u242	Come on, gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u243	After you've come to such an end, I'm sorry. You sat next to me. You're more honorable to the world than to believe you!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u244	Younger! He understands better as a younger man!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u245	Please, Mr. Philly. We don't want lawyers and lawyers like you!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u246	He's good. Why? What's wrong with him?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u247	So I'm lying, Mr. Skourlet?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u248	You don't remember well, at best.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u249	I don't remember well, yeah! All right, Mr. Skourlet. You came back to me and told me, when I told you 'the second Sunday what you want it', that 'the real simple analogue is the one you say, without the second Sunday'. If I'm lying, all right. Your conscience will tyranny you. Besides, it's gonna typhoon you for a lot of other things you've done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u250	God knows!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u251	Let's say two words for the scorpion, because for the scorpion you've taken your MPs to the channels to say that in 1977 Caramanlis gave the language.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u252	Averoff.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u253	What government was Averoff in? Then you say that in 2008 Dora gave it to Kostas Karamanlis, the younger. And since they had all given it, we are also giving it to them. What a fine argument! Really, I admire you! Then in Cyprus, after Karamanlis went and gave the Zurich - London agreement, we should also give the rest of Cyprus. On that road, you too. What's that logic? I am sorry, but I asked Mr Tsipras for another request in this Chamber. He blames the New Democracy for having betrayed it, and he, Mr. Tsipras, is entitled to do so. So I say, if you believe, of SYRIZA, that you are right, get off the people, put fifteen days in an election race, then argue. After all, all the channels are yours and the New Democracy. All day I've seen a SYRIZA and one of New Democracy. You have no problem saying your views and if you win the society, and I will congratulate you and say, "Good, children, who have achieved within a period of time, arguing, winning society". You've started a fascists in society that they're beasts, fascists, vandals. I don't know what it is. That's what you say to society. You can see far-right fantasies everywhere. And you did what you did without a meeting of the Heads, without even a decision of the House. You made your head! If tomorrow it turns out that it relapses the thing and they go back to autism, what are you all going to do? Here I have a piece of paper that is from the website "CORDER THEMA" that says Zaev said about NATO that "the "Democracy of Macedonia" became part of the Alliance family. He doesn't even say North Macedonia. That's what he says. I give it to the Minutes. I didn't write that. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] You disagree with that. However, Mr Zaev is of the opinion that it is called the "Democratic Republic of Macedonia". It does not add the word 'North'. She can't add it and do you a favor so you can argue. [[Mr Vassilis Leventis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Why don't you believe in yourself going down to the people and winning? An honest politician, an honest party, does that, if he thinks he's benefiting the people. It runs down and campaigns on such a serious issue that it is in danger of splitting society and winning or losing and going on. Because a politician who cannot pass a view in society is not legitimate to remain in power. That's my place. A politician who can't convince the people that he's benefiting him is not legitimate to stay. It's not legal. Do you want to be constantly in which you are presented to be called 'fascists', 'breeds', 'vandals', as Mr Philis said yesterday? Vandals said on a channel. All vandals see. The saints are with SYRIZA and the rest of the parties are vandals. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the President is ringing.]] Commissioner Han came out and said there was a debate on the border with Albania. You're right. He fixed it. But a debate on the border does not only mean a debate on the EEZ. It means a continental shelf. It means territorial waters. And that's a border. Why do you keep your intentions from the rest of the parties in secrecy? If you're clean, on such important issues, why don't you discuss with other parties? Clearly you say you are. What prevents you from understanding? Let us know what you're doing with Albania. Are we going to learn from the commissioner? I'm going to Russia. You arrive at the point of deporting two diplomats. The value in this country, ladies and gentlemen, of all the governments of the last fifty years - with whom I politically disagree - was one-party government with bonuses, with enhanced analogues, disagrees with the way they acted, and with what I also disagree with the various governments, it was right, PASOKs and various others - that they managed to belong to the West and NATO without ruining its relations with Russia. Even the junta, brought by the Americans, dared and conflicted with the Americans. And one of the reasons why the junta left Greece was her daring. Tell me, what did you and SYRIZA clash with the Americans? Tell me a point where you crashed. You're literally carrying out their orders. That's what you're doing. And you think that by this way you will remain in power. But I repeat, all the leaders, Andreas Papandreou, Karamanlis, and the leaders, in any case, with their good and bad, kept Greece in the west, but they maintained inextricable friendly relations with Russia. You take this tradition to ruin it, go and be American pawns. It is the first government to give me the feeling, the present, that it becomes the country of the Americans. I'm telling you. And I feel ashamed in this Chamber, not only as Head of the Union of Centres, because you have introduced and go for the implementation of an agreement on Skopje, which is a disgrace to Greece. You're opening forwards with Albania. And the Prime Minister goes to discuss with Erdogan. Talk about what? Erdogan's claiming. Erdogan is clear, does not discuss with Greece, claims: he condemns islands, claims Evros, claims minorities. That's it, Erdogan is Erdogan. Do not wait - say some foolish analysts - say that after the elections in Turkey that Erdogan won, he will change his attitude. Turkey wants to play a hegemony, regional and Greece will play it like a mouse kitty, that's what we'll have, like the giant with the fly, as its Prime Minister said. But the relationships, the friendly ones we have with Russia, must not in this way destroy them by deporting diplomats. This is the first time! You still have to explain. Are we going to learn from the newspapers about deportations? On such a serious issue, will we get this informed from the newspapers? I also feel deeply regretted for the New Democracy's attitude, why did Mr Mitsotakis come out to Mrs Counselor at 'SKAI' and said: 'What are we going to do? If the Skopje Agreement passes through the Parliament, SYRIZA and ANEL, the margins of change are narrow." In other words, the role of the Officer's Vice-President lies in inheriting the dividend and simply says: 'I didn't do it'. This is the role of Mr Mitsotakis, hence Father Mitsotakis said: "Let us give the name Macedonia and in ten years we will forget it." And that's why New Democracy did the crime and put in 2008 the composite name on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' website. They put her on the website! And there is no longer a more vague testimony of Greece's position. SYRIZA's telling the truth about that. We had a position configured, wrong, that gives an advantage to Skopje.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u254	Mr. Leventis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u255	But here I am putting this dilemma, since we have now approached and put our hand on the type of suns and we find that the people do not want this agreement, because there is a lack of courage in this Chamber to say: 'We have been wrong all these years. We had a bad estimate. We were giving something that the people have very high, the name of Macedonia. We're canceling the deal. And we call on all the free world to respect the will of the Greek people." Why should we go down the head to whom? Who, this country's going to be headed for? Whose grace will Greece do by handing over Macedonia?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u256	All right, Mr. Leventis, finish now that the tone is up. Thank you. Come on, Mrs Marcus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u257	Thank you very much, Madam President. Before I begin my speech, I would like to ask Mr Barkas, who is not here, has gone: In the last three and a half years, really, how many thousands of passports has he taken out to the Greeks in Albania? How many new passports have they been issued? Is it true that our Minister has an adviser from the Premier of Albania? And really, Mr. Karayannis and Mr. Stephen, how many times have they gone to Albania and why?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u258	For three years...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u259	I'm sorry? Really, did your turn come? Why did you talk to Mr. Yoyaka about the buses that were coming. I would like to know how many thousands of passports have come out and been given to these people, which are essentially European passports. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first time that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has unregulated its micro-political and cynical designs, behind a supposedly large reformist division this time in the field of self-government. This government is faithful to the theory of ethnicism, trying to change the terms of the game by violating the self-evident and basic norms and values of Western democracy. That's all for starters. We would even speak of a cut, if this bill were even touched on the substance, namely the strengthening of local government, to be a truly decentralised body. But, of course, while the real progressive proposal was to always be decentralisation, yours is to concentrate, for the purpose of controlling, forcing resources and powers, so that the playing of clientele, separatism and corruption can then be made possible. Those who allegedly defend democracy, are those who really undermine it, said Constantine Karamanlis and this phrase today is more timely than ever. Your goal is to block, drug the landscape for the next, just as you did with the country. 'We will leave' you say 'but before we leave, we will leave nothing standing'. So cynical and so fatal. You did the same with the fourth Memorandum, whatever its spokesman sometimes says, half of the Community, and now your friend, Mr Moscovisi, with the polite nobility and rude ambitions. You've done the same thing with the disgusting and infamous agreement on the scorpion. You tried the same way to do in the public administration with your photographic notices on the "later" secretaries. Even in the choices of executives in schools, you put your hand on it. Such an abundance of the state has never happened before. These practices go on to institutionalize within the municipalities. "Definition of anti-government officers from other groups", you say, "take a chair to vote in favour of my proposals. SYRIZA mayor barely do business. That's what this is about, let's not hide. You want the sad minorities you'll have to have some veto to get the gifts of the client state at the end. It is not by chance that these changes are being discussed at all. You were once even a party of voters, without any social base and organization. Now you've been nothing, you don't even have an impact on society. All you have left is extortion, extortion of self-government with chairs and jobs, with the services of small and larger interests, to keep you in the game of power. We have heard the unbelievable fact that simple and unwitting proportions will cultivate cooperation and consensus within the municipalities. We have seen how SYRIZA perceives the partnerships, we have seen the way your chosen partner blackmails you, the way you retreat from the unnegotiable, supposedly Left authorities to satisfy his whims. Is that your vision of self-government? And really, when did you cultivate consensus? When did you not lead the public dialogue to the extremes? When you yelled at the squares or when you unleashed vulgar personal attacks on members of the counterpopulation? Even now for the fragmentation of the regions, the New Democracy has shown its willingness to reach consensus. It is, however, crucial to resolve the issue of the vote of the Greeks who are abroad, an issue of isology primarily and a practice in many countries of the world. In fact, the New Democracy has tabled twice a proposal for a law on vote from abroad, and today it will table an amendment. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You, instead of a proposal, build a committee. It is well known - I conclude, Madam President - that if you do not want something to happen, you are building a committee. The truth is, you don't want, you tremble at the idea of Greeks voting abroad, all those who forced you to leave their families and their place with your destructive policy, because you played the country in the dice in 2015 and led it to the edge of the cliff, so that you finally became its best troika student. [[Protests from the wing of SYRIZA]] Because you've devastated every sense of dignity everywhere. Because excellence has become a retreat. Because the new businessman, the new businessman pays taxes and contributions before he even starts working. You had all the time to bring about a comprehensive reform of the electoral law. In fact, you want to change the electoral law part - as you think it will be of interest to you every time. Unfortunately for you, the wind blows towards the exit, despite your desperate efforts to be written to authority. The people now have understood your story and it will appear in self-government and national elections. No matter what the election term is, democracy itself will defend itself. The worse you do, the worse you suffer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u260	Mr. Pallis from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u261	Thank you, Madam President. Fortunately, in addition to the speeches we are preparing on important bills such as today, there is dialogue and I will start where the previous colleague ended. Vote of the Greeks abroad: The New Democracy started by saying "the expatriates". Luckily he picked it up. Let's be clear. There are economic migrants of Greece in the crisis from '10 and then, most until '15, with a trend down in the last three years. They're financial immigrants. Do not be ashamed to say Greek immigrants. There are also Greeks outside World War II and since the civil war, who were both economic immigrants and persecuted right-wing foreigners. It has historical responsibility for these people, the right of Greece that has sent them abroad, and we still don't know where they are. Why am I saying that? Election lists. I'm going to my place to Mytilini. Fifteen sections of 650 registered in this category of citizens, others in Australia, others in America, others in Africa, where it competes with part of who will catch one tenth of those voting. Privileges for the electorate, for the judges. Privileges, from what my colleague, Mr Athanasios, said yesterday, should also be extended abroad. Can I get you another dimension? Controlled vote at the section voted by the ship's seamen, which was tied on that day. It was a completely controlled vote. At a point where ten and eighty votes are added, it is a vote controlled. Eighty Golden Dawn, sir. That's against you. That's what you're saying. I'm going to my text, then. For decades, beyond the absolute economic dependence of self-government, it was haunted by party polarization from the central political scene. The same economic and party interests prevailed in Parliament and in the municipal councils, and this has happened since the 1990s when the PASOK increased self-government. Our government, therefore, realises that without decentralisation to the maximum extent, growth in the country cannot happen, as well as realizing that the failed civilian personnel cannot stand up to the circumstances and support what must happen from now on in the country and lead this change, must create space and enter new faces into the game. They must all have a voice and a right of representation, and traditional parties must cease to be indebted to the benefit of the citizens and, at the end, to the benefit of the few, the chosen, without giving any reason. To have substantial local self-government, it is not enough for the centre to self-restrict itself for the benefit of local autonomy. At the same time, people's participation, citizens' commitment to society and politics must be increased, but, in order to do so, the citizen himself needs to feel that the system includes him and, above all, needs him. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is an essential first attempt after decades of upgrading local government, with the first priority of restoring the relationship between the state and the citizen, since I think that we all realise that we cannot escape our bad self. Simple analogue, referendums and consultation committees, categorisation of municipalities and development planning are the key points for us to have substantial local self-government and decentralisation. These are central issues of this bill. Some reports I'm gonna make in the one minute I've got left. I heard Mr. Voridis, who must feel very right. I don't see him today. There's the question of hegemony, a concept that we don't like. It's your idea of ideological domination too. Mr. Vorides has won the ideological domination on the right, and he must be very happy to see all of you in his line, giving tone in a space that has not reformed self-government. The great agony of Mr. Voridis is not to say that hegemony has been lost throughout the country that has been built by PASOK and New Democracy over the last few decades. We see important arrangements here, such as the possibility of obtaining a gas station for Agios Efstratios. Whoever's gone there will know what I mean. There are many other examples. Expressions such as ‘transaction’, etc. It's what you've done. I know that the system was applied twice in the municipality of Lesvos. The first municipal authority in 2010 had a minority, despite three fifths, since the first year. We are now close to the limits of the majority. However, the system did not work. Because the transactions you say, which is not our perception, is the concept of forming the combinations of your absolute power. I'll close by saying that I'm sure this country's going down, wanting or not to keep it in maintenance. This country is a proud country, a free country slowly, with the effort of this government. The Greek democracy will not be "Patulzstan", ladies and gentlemen. The Greek democracy will go ahead with its citizens, leaving aside those who cannot contribute. We move on with those who can contribute, without hats and without other such dimensions. It's a pity, really, instead of talking about the essence of things, to see you here talking to us about the hope that you will save it and keep the hegemony, this sense of ownership you have, really dragged into this descent and not give up and the PASOK will do its self-criticism. We didn't hear self-criticism, just theories. Finally, as far as the JRC is concerned, I hope that, after the vote on the bill, we will not hear from the people's conspiracy that: 'We do not vote, because you have a majority in the municipal authority according to the law, so we are not called upon to take a position'. Yes, I also want the Communist Party of Greece to be placed on the municipal councils. He has to make a contribution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u262	The President has the floor for some amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u263	It is the one you have heard from Mr Vardakis before and it is accepted. It is the amendment with a general number 1693 with a special number 82. He developed it for you. I am also tabling two legislative improvements to Articles 110 and 111.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u264	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u265	You have to say what it's all about.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u266	He told you. Isn't that why Mr. Vardakis developed it? You were inside five minutes ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u267	You'll be distributed immediately, Mr. Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u268	The principle of orality and directity applies here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u269	Yeah, always. But because we know outside numbers, we understand that. Mr. George Psychogios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u270	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating a crucial piece of legislation on the future of the TATs. "CLOSURE I" launches a very important reform effort for local government. A new architecture begins to be built with this bill, which will be completed with 'KLITHEN II', with the necessary decentralisation of responsibilities and resources, but also with the changes that need to be made in the context of the constitutional review. The provisions of this bill move in the spirit of democracy, representativeness, the effective participation of citizens, as well as the expression of initiatives and movements 'from below', and strengthen control structures for transparency in procedures. The introduction of mere analogous to local government is an intersection that will bring together and also impose the compositions, partnerships and programming convergences. The current system in fact undermined representativeness and manipulated the smaller powers. After all, let us not forget that the simple proportional system is successfully implemented in many other countries of Europe, giving power to local government and reducing dependence on central government. Apart from the simple analogue - and that is why we must not blame the other provisions - there is a lot of other arrangements, such as the institution of the local referendums, but also the very important budgeting process which is now being upgraded, leaving room for alternative proposals and for voting per project. This is very important and anyone who has served in local government is well aware of it, because many problems have arisen. It is also essential that every municipality will be formed and operated as an Immigrant and Refugee Integration Council. It is a provision and an instrument that we must take advantage of for the best possible integration of migrants and refugees, which have many years in our country. The third part of this draft law introduces provisions for the effective, faster and uniform exercise of the responsibilities for the award of citizenship and naturalisation through better coordination and organisation with the Special Secretariat for citizenship that has produced a remarkable job in one year's operation. In this way, we will dismantle the decentralised state administration from applications, achieve homogenisation of procedures, so that there are no different criteria per region, and speed up the procedures in which delays actually occur. In this sense and in this direction, we have also tabled an amendment extending the transitional period for the granting of citizenship, due to the attendance of adult foreigners, who were either for primary, secondary or tertiary education and which expired a few days ago and is extended until the end of the year. Finally, in addition to the very important bill, we need to say a few words about policy, which has been followed by the Ministry of Interior throughout this period. In recent years, it is the first time that the Ministry has its doors open to all the self-government, it is in constant dialogue and it combines the design with them. Even in a difficult financial framework, in which we have been all over the past period, the Ministry proceeded with brave and targeted funding to the municipalities of the country, making them, after many years, breathe and give them the material incentives to develop. Programmes such as "PHILIDIS" I and II in self-government have begun to be implemented. Here, ladies and gentlemen, this is probably a farce for us to hear from some of our colleagues in the Staff Regulations and also from the PASOK, the Change Movement, that this is the result of a transaction or incompetence when the authors themselves have welcomed these fundings. Indeed, when we know well that for years - without, of course, generalizing and zeroing - there have been good initiatives - the majority of cases have been the redeeming of political notes and perpetuation to the central local authority. These were the incentives for funding. Having followed and collected the data in the previous months for Corinthia, and in particular only in the six municipalities where there is no Mayor of SYRIZA, the Ministry of Interior, through the "PHILDIMOS", has approved the following: Approximately 1,260,000 euros for the provision and installation of equipment to upgrade children's playgrounds, 1.035,000 euros for the supply of work machinery, over 600,000 euros for maintenance of school buildings and indoor spaces, about 320,000 euros for redemption, extraordinary financing for mountain and semi-final municipalities and other needs. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, in order to respect both time and colleagues, the simple analogue comes not only because we are left and that is our ideology. After all, there is a success in many other countries of the European Union. It is also for another basic reason: because we believe in society, we believe in the crisis in society, and we do not devalue it very much as you do. We believe that society must decide, away from ombudsmen, agents and agents, professional politicians, class and economic criteria that lead candidates towards others, but also small and large local interests. We are with the society that is liberated from all of this, which shows healthy forces and rewards those who have been unselfishly fighting locally for collective good and social solidarity and we want them to be at the forefront. That's where we belong, they're accountable, and we're going to move on with them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u271	Thank you. Mr. Friends has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u272	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the 'CLISTHENS' bill aims to encourage and facilitate the participation of citizens at both Community and regional level. Participation not once in four years, but throughout the term of office. We do not claim that all problems are cured by "CLOTHED", but the first decisive step is taken, a democratic inspiring, which is a decisive precondition for the regeneration of self-government. The introduction of a mere analogy enables self-government to be weaned by the depressing guardian of client parties and other interests, which form the mayor's system and turn municipalities and regions into satrapes. The renewal of civil servants to self-government, if finally achieved, can give popular authority but also efficiency to local government. Our social forces and fellow citizens, who are suffocating from the crisis both economic and political and moral, can take in their hands the great and beautiful adventure of changing our everyday lives. This overthrow is feared by those who are bewildered by simple analogues in defending the pathogens of a political system that has led to the current crisis through mismanagement, customerism and corruption. It is hypocritical that the relevant problems in the area of selfgovernment are eradicated when they are established by the relevant bodies. The monstrous artificial majorities of coagulative systems are the uterus of maladministration and transactions. ‘CLINICALS’ shall establish local referendums. This is a form of direct democracy which can give greater legitimacy and acceptance to representative democracy. It is the dialectic tension between the two forms of democracy that can enrich democratic life at local level as a pretext for the national level. Ladies and gentlemen, during the debate in the House we heard the New Democracy, the Golden Dawn cynical, but with the surprise of PASOK - I am surprised to say that PASOK has a history, a tradition of local government reforms - to contrast democracy with efficiency. Mr. Vorides, even sought the womb of his problem in the sanctuary Augustine, in the state of God, in the Middle Ages, forgetting the democratic incision to modernity and the Enlightenment on which our city has been founded. Augustine, a sweet voice of the Middle Ages, but a Middle Ages. We are, of course, discovering the womb of proposals for the abolition of the eighth, Islamophobia, religion, perceptions that we see moving strongly nowadays. Middle Ages, back to the Middle Ages. Local government is not a common government agency responsible for waste and burying the dead. It is of a dual nature, above all, as a fundamental right to express local democracy and local autonomy, as defined in the European Charter of Local autonomy, but also as a specific administrative institution closely linked to the central and decentralised state administration with which it constitutes a functional unit. In other constitutions, such as the Italian, the municipalities, the regions and the central government, the State is equally manifestations and a further presumption is laid down to the municipalities for those powers which are not explicitly attributed to the other institutions. The necessary upgrading of local government, which is still a step in the way of 'KLITHENO', must be part of the constitutional review, since the role of government is not only the management of public affairs, which are of a local nature, but all the public affairs that are of a special nature and its direct democratic legitimacy to invoke the relevant proposal of the constitutionalist, Mr Sotiel and the Institute of Local Government, of the then KEDO. Only such a conception that does not undermine self-government in service handler and does not remove it the power of popular representation can weaken stereotypes and practices of central administration and courts that question without judging their prejudice the role of self-government in major state issues, such as education, health and the environment. Ladies and gentlemen, "CLITHENIS" is also taking some steps towards the election of the organisational model of self-government. But we also need greater boldness, which is to some extent linked to the constitutional review. We need to organise metropolitan self-government institutions in the large town complexes and similar institutions for island complexes. It is also necessary to strengthen the financial self-sufficiency of the TAs without semi-metres in the context of a brave tax decentralisation, so that the TAs under Article 78 of the Constitution can define, but also collect taxes and charges other than remuneration, not tax-based, but on criteria of territorial and social cohesion. This, of course, means the gradual decapitation of the country by the Memorandum of Understanding for Taxation. Ladies and gentlemen, we are creating new possibilities for the democratic reconstruction of the country, which is a prerequisite for our productive reconstruction, at a time when we are fighting - and to a certain extent we are able to get the country out of the crisis, in the hope that we will find a position worthy of the sacrifices of the Greek people, in convergence with European economies and in reducing social inequalities. Today's legislation shows to a large extent the struggles and experiences of the Left's action within the self-government movement for many decades, leading to the experience of self-government in the free areas of the occupied Greece 1940-1944, as Georgulas Bekos in his book entitled "The popular authority in free Greece". It is a brilliant tradition that has survived as an oasis thanks to the visionary word and the boldness of some emblematic forms of the Left and the wider progressive space and has shown what self-government can achieve and what local communities deserve to live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u273	Thank you, Mr. Philly. Mr. Thebes has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u274	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today is a real part of the political life of the country. This is a fundamental reform that gives the weight to local government, which strengthens decentralisation, consensus and democracy. The bill is taught from the past and enters the future. It assesses the results of the previous reform of KALIKARAT and attempts to remove distortions and link local government to the broader plan for productive reconstruction and fair growth. I will dwell on a number of specific issues that have been debated today, such as the issue of Waste Management Bodies. This bill comes to regulate the issue of waste management following the government's adoption of the new National Management Plan. It is no coincidence that the Accuracy Against Politics today has not touched it but little. Maybe someone says he's not selling, it's garbage. Wrong. The New Democracy should be apologised for leaving an enormous havoc and millions of euros fines from the European Union behind in the area of waste management. Today, with a courageous proposal, up to three FITDs per region are proposed. This makes it possible to cultivate co-operation between neighbouring municipalities with a view to maximising recycling and minimising the burden on the municipality at municipal fees. In this area, what is currently being planned and implemented does not stand up to the third world past we have received. It is also important to regulate, particularly with regard to the provision of local referendums. It is a means of social control and of direct participation by citizens in making important decisions on their place. The arrangements for fairer and targeted treatment of municipalities are also important, based on the categories that respond to their specificities. Population-based categories of municipalities are identified, the degree of urbanisation and their economic characteristics, their geomorphological specificities and location on the country's administrative map. The number of scientific associates and special advisers shall be increased. In fact, there are some who dared to talk about ruffles. Only those who have nothing to do with self-government have not even nursed four years as municipal councillors, can accept such a view. Unless they're judging themselves. At the same time, it is foreseen that municipalities will be able to conclude contracts with the public for studies and projects. The interactive link of a technical service between adjacent municipalities where there are personnel problems is introduced to operate the technical service. The budgetary procedure with more effective participation is also being upgraded. Ladies and gentlemen, I come to the point of introducing simple proportionality because there has been a lot of discussion. One thing is certain that with the introduction of this simple analogous system a whole political system, which has been spoiled for decades to govern the country, the municipalities and the regions with positive majority systems, is being called into question. We have therefore had an aristocratic democracy that has nourished bi-partisanism, corruption, which has made the local government a poor relative of central power, I am not saying that, the CEDEFOP says so, and has finally led the country to bankruptcy. The simple analogue therefore frightens, creates panic, and so is political barbarism, which has been demonstrated in recent months by the representatives of the CEDEFOP and HSY. And if the New Democracy dreams that with the national elections it may be time to abolish the simple analogue, Mr. Patoulis and his company know they will not, as the late Charilaos Florakis said, so as not to forget our communist past. On this point, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say something to make it really serious. We laughed when some with their bourgeois courtesy called us for our communist origin because we defend the simple analogue. Wrong. Because it is not some extreme right-wing graphics, it is the same political logic and practice, which he confessed in the 1950 ’ s and 1960 ’ s to fighters of the Peace Movement as nationally dangerous and performed Nikiforides. Because they are the enthusiasts of the extreme right-wing neoliberal policy that they have never had and have no good relations with democracy, social freedoms and rights. The progressive party now has a duty to strengthen hegemonicly the participatory representative democracy in our country and the bill with the introduction of mere proportional to local government is coming to a catalyst in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u275	Mr. Circus has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u276	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are debating today is a profound and fundamental reform of the institutional framework of local government, opening the way to a truly democratic, radical and political division. In fact, this bill comes at a time when, after eight years of the Memorandum of Understanding, the country is being driven out of this Memorandum. And now we have the historic responsibility to free ourselves from the bonds and paths of the past, so that we never again find ourselves in the power of austerity and the loss of our national sovereignty. And it is time to pave the way for progressive changes in the state and economy and large institutional areas that this place needs. The new era for our country will be accompanied by a holistic development plan, where local government will have a central role. This bill comes at a time of this government where this government has very much supported local government. Remember the 2017 plan, which included mature institutional issues of local government, for example, the modernisation of the institutional framework for the operation of municipal water and sewerage operations. Remind you of the financial aid to the OTAs that have been multiplied since 2016, the increase in State funding to local government, the specific "PILADIMOS I" and "PILADIMOS II" funding programmes, the introduction of more objective criteria for the aided exceptional aid for small mountain and island municipalities. These interventions were not given, but were the result of work and talks with self-government without micro-party purposes and pursuits. In this context, therefore, the 'CLITHENS' is also introduced. And I consider it a very important step, that according to the provisions of the bill, the objective features on the basis of which the municipalities were categorised, such as the population, the degree of urbanisation, geo-economic and geomorphological peculiarities are precisely aimed at the fairer legislative, administrative and budgetary treatment of municipalities. This is therefore a serious step towards the removal of injustices, particularly at the expense of disadvantaged municipalities, as well as the parallel and equal development of the similar municipalities, according to the categorisation made. Ladies and gentlemen, following on from the legislation already adopted on simple analogues in the national elections, the simple analogue in the elections to the first and second grades of local government is now being adopted by this bill. This change clearly illustrates our intention to upgrade the quality of democracy and to remove distortions in the representation created by the former system. Simple analogue was a chronic demand of the progressive democratic world against ownership for the state and local government, against the customer networks and the small-party purposes that served other groups. This is undoubtedly a fair electoral system, because with simple analogues the principle of representativeness, which is part of democracy, as is the principle of equality of vote, is guaranteed and protected. The implementation of the mere proportional to municipal and regional elections will therefore put an end to the irrationality of the current co-operative system, where the party of the elected mayor or regional rule received 60% of the seats, irrespective of the percentage received in the first round of elections. This artificial majority, which violated democratic principles and underestimated the will of the citizens, was in no way fundamentally legitimised by the democratic functioning of the institutions of local government. There is therefore room for the release of political and social forces at local level which will actively declare their presence and have a distinct political role. On the contrary, the Qualified Opposition, you want the local self-government of hostage micro-party pursuits for the development of client networks and dependencies. Did you really ask the citizens how they perceive the concept of participation, codecision, voluntary action, self-determination of individual requests? We want young people, the active men and women of this place to have an equal chance to contribute, in order for this country to get back on track, to make a real contribution to dealing with local problems, where in fact the nature of more problems at local level leaves a great deal of room for consultation and consensus, and of course, for programme convergences. So it is the first step of a great reform effort that both the country's budgetary situation and the constitutional framework allowed, and that is why other colleagues have said that issues, such as the allocation of powers, will be opened up with the debate on the constitutional reform. I conclude by saying that this bill is a first step, which creates conditions for a substantial change in the social demand for strengthening local democracy, citizens' participation, solidarity and development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u277	I shall now give the floor for twelve minutes to the Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr Panayotarou. Then I will give the floor to another Member and then to Mr Katsiki, Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks. Then they said the Chiefs would talk. So be patient and keep time. Here, Mr. Panayotare, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u278	Thank you, Madam President. Today Ioannis Kapodistrias came from the Russian court to take over the administration of this country immediately after the declaration of the Greek state. And we can put this on the balance with the actions that were taken yesterday on the expulsion of two Russian diplomats with some scoundrels and ridiculous excuses that we will come back to later. It also causes the laughter to become continuously different reforms, by various governments, with various ancient Greek names of great reformers of ancient Greece, either "KLITHENI" or "KLAIKRATH" - and in the future we do not know who else - who of course had absolutely nothing to do with these non-reforms, but the destructive actions carried out over time by the Greek governments. To thank also a large number of MPs of the government and of the Officerial Representation for their classifications about whether to favour and who is more favoured by the Golden Dawn and its self-government expression, the Greek Dawn, either for Attica, Athens or for anywhere else in Greece. A lot of premiere, gentlemen, of the 'constitutional arch' - within many introductorys - on Golden Dawn, which either likes or does not remain a third political force, is voted and believes hundreds of thousands of fellow citizens, and no matter how much you try to rip us into and get dirty, apparently, you do nothing about it. And where are you still, you will see other rises of the Golden Dawn and of the Greek Dawn, the self-government expression of the Golden Dawn. For this bill, which is supposed to improve local government once again, the general observation we have to make is the complete failure of self-government, but also of the governments of the past years and of that government, who have created a vicious self-government system, just as vile as the central political situation. We can talk about hours and endless examples of the failure of self-government with whatever system you may have, either in the previous or in the previous one, or with what you want to bring. Too many powers often where they cannot be handled, very few powers where they should have more powers and inability at all levels. I heard a previous Member from SYRIZA, if I am not mistaken, who was talking about self-government, about SYRIZA's good interests in self-government and mentioned the recycling and management of waste. And here we are laughing because the Region of Attica, Mrs Dourou, who had its flag of recycling in the 2014 elections and with her she entered the district, was first elected, she has done nothing at all for the management of waste, for such a very serious issue in all respects and ecological importance, on a matter that shows whether we can all function in some conditions very pleasant, which could be created, if recycling were also applied. To talk about the inability of the municipalities, but also of the regions as a whole, where we see that basic infrastructure projects that should have been carried out have not been carried out, have not taken place decades now and one accuses the other that "we had the projects, we had brought the projects, but in the end we did not have time, because you came and did nothing" until you left and others will come back and say the same and it will be a vicious cycle of failures. The only thing we can see, no time before any self-government elections, is suddenly to rinse squares, pavements, benches, playgrounds and build new with the Greek people's money until they are dissolved, because no one ever goes to repair the existing ones and save the municipalities and the public money for the benefit of others. We see in this bill that some people will be able to naturalise as Greeks various illegal immigrants, with very simple procedures, fast track procedures, at the expense of Greek citizens. And it is a challenge, on the one hand, to see such phenomena, as others have done in the past and, on the other, the millions of Greeks abroad do not have the possibility of 'election'. There is a lot of talk here, and we have not yet understood why the government has not brought a specific law, and it simply says now that you will be voting on a committee, which, within six months, will see what will happen with the vote of the Greeks abroad, and not all Greeks abroad, but some of them. Now, because in the future some have the right to vote and some are not very strange. Are you referring to those who left in the years of the memorandum, because you did it like you and the previous ones, with the measures of the memorandum and the millions of unemployed? Are you referring to them? They remain and have their electoral rights here. Are you referring to those who had left the past decades? Greeks are also very good Greeks, who, in their vast majority, have served their homeland and maintain their assets in their country and especially in their villages, in the province. They are the ones who, in the summer months, usually relive the province, the countryside. They are the ones who have renovated and renovated their homes. They are the ones who are happy to come to Greece in the summer months. Some are retired and in fact not paid by the Greek State. They are paid by the State of the countries in which they have worked. And these people don't have the right to vote. But they have the right to vote on various third worlds who have invaded our homeland. We saw this in 2014 in an election section of Athens, where they were going and voting for some guys with some celebies, with no passports, with a photocopy and some statements from some NGOs, without even speaking Greek. And of course, they supported certain candidates who were also mayors. What Golden Dawn says, which has previously tabled an amendment and re-submits it, is that there should be the possibility of electing all the relatives, the Greek citizens who are abroad on the day of the elections, the seamen and many other categories. Instead of enlarging the electoral base with the Greeks who live abroad and giving them the right to vote, once again, we see his well-known'strong through the engagement' and we do nothing at all. We are returning the amendment for the Minutes today. Maybe anyone who wants to see her. You will understand what we mean and what should be the vote of the Greeks abroad, unlike you, who are staying in words. [[At this point Members Ilias Panagiotaros tables for the Minutes the above amendment, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It is generally unbelievable to facilitate your governments to illegal immigrants and the huge obstacles you put to the Greeks who would like to vote in the elections of our country. Imagine - it is already acidifying - that although they live abroad, because they maintain assets here, they also pay HISPIA and taxes and too many things, compared to young people within many importing "Greeks", who of course pay nothing and receive multiple allowances. I would also like to comment on the government's tactics, which have become tiring, since it is repeated and so it loses its value. Go on, the first time with "NOVARTIS" had a value, because some had indeed dived both hands in the honey. But now, because yesterday and today, the NATO summit is taking place, there will be a great deal of coexistence and not so much coexistence on the part of SYRIZA, which they have always believed in independent Macedonia. The co-pilot, Panos Kammenos, the "Macedoniachos" will be undone, who has tried to convince us that he has done everything and works for the benefit of our Greek and Macedonia. Yesterday and today, at the NATO Summit, Greece's signatures are very wide-ranging - the main Tsipras, Kammenos and Kotzias - the entrance of Skopje, typically as "North Macedonia", because they all now call them "Macedonia". The label can say 'North Macedonia', if any, for some time at these meetings. However, the Prime Minister of Skopje himself, Mr. Zaev, spits you in the face when he tweets and says, dry, neto "Macedonia" and he dares none of the various "Cammen" to stand up. And in order to keep this nudity from showing, they pulled out the huge Russian spy scandal. They also laugh at the pavement for the excuses and reasons why they deported the two Russian diplomats. If that were the case, what would the Members of the New Democracy who, at the government of Karamanlis, watched VODAFONE on behalf of a particular country, the mobiles of all the officials, and the Prime Minister and others? In fact, there was also the murder of a ‘VODAFONE strain’. What can others who are in the various wings say when discussion about armaments is taking place? What should they say when they see the ambassadors entering different countries in order to sell their assets, when they see the ambassadors of countries going everywhere out of their scope, going to Thrace, talking to the falsemakers, discussing with various others, photographing them with the illegal Turkish associations, etc.Huh? You can't play the particular game of who we'll be with at all and whether we'll get any benefits. If you saw last night and today's NATO summit, Erdogan, who is supposed to have broken it with America, who also bought the S-400, has become a best friend with Putin's Russia and has made great deals as well as with America. And we saw him constantly enjoying the planet captain Donald Trump. Ours nowhere. Those who saw news on TV these days about the session, saw a plan showing Trump with some other leaders discussing and entering the shot, as Mitsaras entered the various shots here of politicians, Panos Kammenos and walking to show up, to show that he is also there. That's how much Mr. Kammenos' cheek is and nowhere else. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, I will need two minutes from the time of my dentistry. It is a pity, because you cannot negotiate. If you had taken free from America the upgrade of P -3 ORION or if you had had had any other compensatory measures properly, if you had been offered more favourable terms the upgrading of F-16 to the level of viper would have been at a reasonable cost and in a way of repayment very easy, as the Russians had previously proposed for the purchase of Su -35, the 'SUKHOI' would have given us planes and given them a lot of the repayment to oranges, lemons, peaches and I don't know what else you have cut them off with the embargo and where the producers see them, look and have no place to promote them. Unfortunately, you are expensive in pie and cheap in chickens on all issues. Not even the game of negotiation you can do well. Because the position of the Golden Dawn is neither America nor Russia nor anyone. The position of Golden Dawn is with Greece and with whom we can negotiate better and get most of the benefits of our country's home. We'll support him, not someone blindly, because that's what we're told. You showed that you are NATO's best submissives, with your earlier energy, while there was no reason, nor did anyone tell you to start fighting for the opposite. Either way, for this bill and its articles, the Golden Dawn has nothing to fear either from the partition of Athens, from the rest of Attica, from the "KLITHENI", or from the "KOLIKRATI" from anything at all. In whatever field you have us to play, any arbitrator you have, with whatever rules you have put, with all the "rolls" and offenses you set up, the Golden Dawn will rise, rise and rise, because it speaks the language of truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u279	Mr. Armalene has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u280	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill, apart from the fact that it is a great reform section, which comes after other very serious areas, such as health, education, development, energy, and in a number of other parts of the country's political, economic and social life, is also an important first step towards a redeployment of politics with society. I'm talking about the simple analogue. Simply proportional is not just an electoral system that is a permanent position on the Left. It is a tool through which local movements, local citizens' initiatives can see themselves expressed through local and regional councils, which has not been the case for many years, for decades now, with the systems of enhanced analogy, which have been in place just because the old bipartisanism ever wanted to control local government. There is now a road to effective participation of citizens, where local councillors are being upgraded toward the mayor's central system, because to make decisions that are important to local issues there should be cooperation. I think that common sense people, regardless of their side, can choose for their place important things and agree on their local issues. Others are trying to separate them from small - party pursuits. However, I am sure that within the municipal and regional councils there will be consensus and there will be a culture of cooperation, which will yield the greatest to local communities. The Civic Opposition says there will be insolence, that the mayor can't control the municipal council, so he can't make decisions and a number of such arguments. Who tells you, ladies and gentlemen, that all these years that took 30% and 35% in the first round and in the second round were 60% and 65% of the seats had the original expression of the majority of local society to make decisions? As far as PASOK is concerned, it is indeed a matter of question, a party that has given much to local government and decentralisation - in fact since 1981-1982, and then it has become serious areas of local government - to reach the point of denying something that it had in its DNA. The subject of mere analogy was in PASOK's DNA. And it comes today and because of micro-participatory goals towards the Government it says 'I do not vote for simple proportional'. Of course we will all be judged, and we are all judged by the people. So today's bill, which will be law in a few hours, brings important positive issues, which will of course be completed with 'CLISTEN II'. As far as the small island municipalities are concerned, because I come from this region, I would like to say that important steps are being taken to self-evident the budgets of the municipal communities, and even the islands belonging to larger municipalities, the possibilities of producing electricity from small islands are being created, the possibility of setting up a local consultation committee, which, through the participation of local bodies, can also shape the budget. It is important that there should be a participatory budget, which has not existed for so many years. Articles 187 and 189 therefore allocate revenue and expenditure to local, municipal and island communities and is an important step forward in their upgrading. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, I shall end. I think today's bill will open up important roads to effective participation of society and to upgrade the institution of local self-government. The New Democracy dreams it will have taken the power before it can abolish the law. But that is not going to happen and not only is it not going to happen, but municipal elections will in any case precede the parliamentary elections and will therefore be implemented for the first time and local communities will see themselves through the expression of the new municipal and regional councils. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u281	Thank you. Mr Stavros Theodorakis, President of the Potamian Parliamentary Group, should now come to Stepma. Your time, Mr. Theodorakis, is twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u282	Ladies and gentlemen, let me begin with the conclusion. You cannot treat self-government only with micro-party calculations. And it is not possible, Mr Skourletis, to constantly do the country above on the basis of what is of interest to you and what is not of interest to you. By yesterday you said 'and why should the elections take place in May and not take place in October'? And now you say 'and why should the elections take place in October and not take place in May?'. I think it's an insult to the self-government courgette game and I'm very afraid of a declaratory of sloppyness with which you deal with the small and big issues that concern the country. And now you're going to make a correction, but you're not completing it either. You say that the date of the European elections coincides with the date of the self-government elections, but that the terms of the election do not coincide with and that the European elections should take place every five years. You also insist that your term be reduced to local government and that elections take place every four years. Well, bells, you know, set up a job to be. We are proposing that the term of office of the mayors and the regional authorities should remain in five years and that the elections always coincide with the European elections. What makes sense and housewives more sensible, I would say, to strengthen both of the controversies with the missing elements. Decentralisation and Europe are two concepts that should go together. But let's go to the other mistakes of your proposal. A interest group or an extreme group will be able to draw up a combination, take few votes in small municipalities or in medium - five thousand inhabitants, for example - and enter the municipal council with fifty, sixty votes. So we - and we are not just asking for it, are also asking for it by most mayors in the country - to have a 3% limit on the entry of a combination into municipal and regional councils. In the past few days I met with many successful mayors, mainly independent of the New Democracy, PASOK, SYRIZA. All serious people are appealing not to hand over local thoughts to the hands of extremist and graphics. The functions of municipal councils will be sabotaged. The slow-moving processes on municipal and regional councils will become even slower and no one in local societies will have the right to reach agreement with anyone. Fire the cooperation culture. Why? Since everyone will be able to come down alone, why should there be a convergence effort, since with 1% I will have representation, why should I work with someone else? So you insist on the isotopeic simple analogue by adding problems to local self-government. At a time when decisions are being made to strengthen local authorities in Europe, you are doing the opposite and strengthening the superpowers of the Minister in question. I would like to refer to a specific subject. Legislative supervisors are, in fact, the bodies of the Minister. In other words, the government will decide who mayor will be controlled and who mayor will have immunity. We call on the law supervisors not to be designated by the ministers, but to be chosen by transparent and practicable procedures. Ladies and gentlemen, all the people of self-government - and here I think we will all agree in this Chamber, or most of them - who hurt self-government agree that we need to change the current electoral system. A mayor who has voted since 20% has 60% of the seats of the municipal council. That's what we all agree on. Instead of correcting the problem, you level it all, go to the other end and I think you're multiplying the deadlocks. From the mayor - an almighty that we have today, we go to the mayor - a voyage, to the municipal council. Watch out. It takes a mayor 45% in the first round - and we have many such cases all over Greece - and, according to your proposal, the one who has been voted on by one out of two citizens, in order to be able to run his municipality, to continuously bazaars with 2%, 5%, 7%. We have to say something that municipal councils are not just for resolutions, for political debates and for racing debates. They are management bodies, i.e. bodies that make daily decisions for the citizen and you are the administrative bodies who are drugizing them. [[Mr DIMITRIOS KRIMASTINOS]] Most people's interpretation, when they read these settings, is one: why are you doing all this? Because you do not have strong party orders in self-government, you want with 10%, with 15% co-government of the municipalities. But this will mean bazaars, this will mean a transaction, and it will in many cases mean paralysis of local government. What do we suggest? We say we have to leave the old regime. We are calling for a system of weighted analogous. We propose what mayors who care for self-government and not their parties suggest: A weighted analogy. In particular: the mayor is elected to elect the first Sunday of more than 42% and, of course, to have an absolute majority on the municipal council. We propose that there should be an entry plaque on the municipal and regional councils of 3% and that municipal councils be formed on the basis of the rule - take care of me - that those taking over 3% are represented on the municipal council, but the mayor elected on the second Sunday should have an additional bonus based on the rate of the first Sunday. I want to give you an example: In a city where a combination has only taken the first Sunday 20%, now, with the existing law, it has an absolute majority. We say get a 10% bonus on his seats. In another city the combination that has taken the first Sunday 40% to get a 20% bonus on its seats, i.e. 1% bonus on the seats for every 2% of the vote. What will that mean? Except for the mayors elected from the first Sunday to 42% on the basis of the river proposal, all others will be obliged to small or large alliances, depending on their percentage. This is a processed river proposal. We did it with the help of many people of self-government with a great deal of experience, and I think that should have been the solution. But let's also go to the point that the river has been fighting since the first day of its establishment. Ten thousand students in the United Kingdom, over seven thousand doctors in Germany, five thousand economists in northern Europe and so many engineers in the Middle East, four hundred thousand friends, brothers and sisters, children have left the years of crisis abroad. We have deprived them of the opportunity to work, to progress here, to live here, and now you insist to remove them the opportunity to vote for Greece. So I'm not going to go into details. We demand, we demand, we demand a vote for Greeks abroad in the embassies, in the consulates. Obviously, we are also calling for the possibility of a letter vote, which says the Constitution. Obviously, we are also calling for the possibility of electronic voting. Our proposal for electoral law is well known, clear and specific: the votes of the Greeks abroad are on the ground and not in their constituencies. Because, as colonist Nikos Alivizatos says, Astoria can't bring out a Chios MP or the New York Bordeaux. However, instead of placing on these specifics that have been said, they have been discussed, studied, insist on the political extremism of the Greeks abroad, throw the ball at the platform and recommend a committee that "will discuss, "will" study, "will propose". However, we have discussed them, studied them, proposed them. But I am very afraid that your refusal to vote on Greeks abroad is the result of your fear that these people in their vast majority will not follow you and will not vote on you in the polls. As I see you react, I have a proposal to make, Mr Skourletis: You propose that this committee finish its work in three months and that you say that the elections will not take place in the autumn and that the elections will come in 2019, we will all commit that in this House in winter at the latest we will vote for the Greeks' vote abroad. That is our compromise proposal. Can't we today? Let us do this in three months that the committee will finish its work. But there is, of course, something we agree with. This is the partition of the 2nd Athens and the Region of Attica. We have pointed out, not only us, but many others too, that the huge regions are so many decades a privileged field for the 'electors' of channel people and those who have had a lot of money to support candidates in the vast regions. The river proposal is, of course, the break-up of all the major regions. We must make a radical change in the electoral system with one-sided regions - that is what we are proposing - and the possibility of double voting, that is to say, that one can vote on the party who wants to be on the regional list and the person who wants to be on the local list. However, because most people do not seem to have much appetite for major changes, let us be content today with the break-up of the two major regions of the country. Ladies and gentlemen, the House once again loses the opportunity to synchronise with the demands of the times, to create a bridge with the children of Greece abroad, to clash with the ailments that hold local government blocks of the party state, and finally to strengthen the effectiveness of local authorities. Instead of taking a leap to the future, again stagnant, again conservative, again fearful! So the question is what it has always been. Determined for rupture politicians, great changes are needed, without anyone looking at their shop. That's why we're here. And that's why it's going to keep fighting the river. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u283	Mr President, will you give me the floor for two minutes? I want to make a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u284	How many minutes do you want to talk about?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u285	I'm gonna need at least two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u286	You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u287	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Theodorakis, I take the floor because I want to clarify something that may not be understood correctly. You have referred to the lawmakers and said that they will be appointed by the Minister concerned. That's not true. Specific procedures are provided for. As the general secretaries, as today's decentralized, are chosen, they have come out of procedures by a committee that took part in the Citizens' Counsel, the AACC, etc., in the same way they will be elected. Indeed, for the supervisor of legality, who has a fairly critical task to do, he is formed on a different basis, because, as we have heard in the past days and have heard repeatedly from the people of self-government, there are many complaints about the way in which today's decentralised task is performed. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] We therefore substitute for the role of decentralised, the control of legality by remaining in the field of legality, and not by entering into the purposes, are setting up this committee with scientific capacity, which has a legal basis, so that we can earn time, have greater transparency and credibility and a commitment that these decisions will be adopted within a certain period of time, so that things can run. That is what I think it is necessary to clarify.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u288	The final reason isn't the Minister's?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u289	No, of course not. Alas, as it isn't now, it won't be then. The second thing I want to say is that you mentioned - and you showed - the four hundred thousand friends. You have mostly said young people who have been abroad in recent years. That's right. And just by recognising their right to be allowed to vote in elections, these people are on the electoral lists - regardless of whom they are responsible - we are committed to establishing this committee. You said 'one quarter'. This committee is due to be put to the end of the year. It's not a reference to the bells. And if it hadn't been for August, which we know is actually having a hard time in our country, we could even agree in the quarter yet. We say 'in five months' time'. So, in the year, we will have before us - come on, if you want, to table a proposal in relation to the experts involved in this committee - to see what we can do. Even the proposal put forward by the New Democracy presupposes a number of measures to be taken to put this issue into practice. And finally, apart from the need and the law to vote on these people, it would be nice to create the prerequisites for them to come back, because they are scientists. And at this point I would like to say, since we are talking about self-government, when we know that self-government has no engineers, does not have economists, needs young scientists, cannot support - I do not say it for you - that it must be condemned to subsecution and say that recruitment must turn to its unfavourable rule one by five.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u290	Mr President, allow me only one word.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u291	Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u292	I want to understand, do you commit that this House will vote for the vote of the Greeks abroad? That's my question. Make a commitment and obviously we'll all be happy to accept your commitment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u293	A commitment to the result of the vote cannot be taken, but I undertake that a specific proposal will be tabled in this House. The House will also, of course, give its opinion on the matter in accordance with the procedures laid down.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u294	Is it going to be a proposal?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u295	That's what we're talking about for a proposition.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u296	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u297	Mr. Kourublis has called for the floor for legislative improvements. Do you want two minutes, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u298	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u299	Here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u300	Mr President, I am tabling a legislative improvement to Amendment No 1688/77, from which we withdraw Rule 1 for further consultation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u301	Mr Katsikis, Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, speaks for twelve minutes. Please, Mr Katsiki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u302	Ladies and gentlemen, my self-government payments are making my approach aware of this bill. And those in this Chamber who have been self-government, know that weaning from self-government will never exist. Self-government is passion, it's a bit poor, but it's a bad thing. The choice of the name of the reform plan of the Ministry of the Interior marks a shallow redesign, a necessary redefinition of the "KALIKRATI", based on the expectation of strengthening direct democracy. From 2010 to today, we all agreed on the need for better interventions in the current legislative framework and we were all locating the legislative gaps. This is not a functional integration of the "KALIKRATI", but an attempt to reform the institutions with a view to achieving a decentralisation that will materialise democracy by expanding the participation of citizens. No one gets ethered. It would be a global originality for a piece of legislation of this kind to go through with consensus from the other side. I understand the voices of those who react collectively and I follow closely the positions and statements of the institutions. In my position at the meeting on the principle, I defended the effort of institutional reconstruction. However, I pointed out two major disagreements: the first concerned the introduction of the simple proportional system as an electoral system in the municipal and regional elections, but since it is a peculiar simple analogous one, which allocates all the seats of the municipal and regional council to the combinations that took place in the elections according to the number of valid ballots they took in the first round. If a combination does not reach 50% plus 1, the vote will be repeated next Sunday, i.e. in the second round, only among the candidates for the two combinations who received most votes on the first Sunday. The working of this popular verdict will lead, ladies and gentlemen, to insolventness and will effectively make the distribution of a majority in the majority, especially when the culture of consensus is not self-evident in our country. Think about how difficult it will be tomorrow in a multi-collectional parade environment to spend an annual project and budget programme. I believe that the attempt to compose in opposite terms will fall into the gap and will act as a brake in the effort of self-government to act effectively and promptly, facing the increased challenges of the future, under difficult and demanding conditions. Yes, simple analogues are ideology, I agree, but just proportionally one Sunday, forgive me, I think it's ideology. I would like to take this paradox into account: if we assume that your proposal also applies to the electoral system of the parliamentary elections, consider the consequences. Another ballot will be elected by parliamentarians and the candidate Prime Ministers will be elected by another ballot. That is exactly what you are trying to do today at the level of municipalities and regions. The example I have mentioned has been to highlight and extend the paradox that you are introducing with these articles, which I, as an old self-government, have to vote against with knowledge and experience in the field. The second point in my disagreement concerns partitioning with an amendment from the large regions. Please explain to me, ladies and gentlemen, why the fragmentation of the Attica region, which I am well aware of, since I am elected here, helps small parties to better represent them. Who ensures that they are represented in both parts of the fragmented region? Nobody. On the contrary, it is certain that the divided region will not be represented by a small party MEP and within this Parliament the small parties are six. I am very surprised by this, namely two of these small parties, Potami, which can certainly be certain of its uncertain, gracious and dark future, but especially PASOK, which is also being blamed at the small parties today, for the fragmentation of the regions. This is a great surprise to me, of course, on the basis of the explanatory statement in this amendment, which has a little reason - let me say it - incomprehensible and incomprehensible. I wanted to ask something about the point where he said he was wrong. How is parliamentary representation wrong? How does the opacity of political competition strengthen? We are all accused of opaqueness in our review process in these regions. I can't really understand your argument. Such parametering strengthens my view of a political argument deficit. Here comes the cherry on the cake. The possibility offered to the party's leader to be a candidate in three rather than two regions, which have been in place so far, demonstrates the precariousness of the election and representation of the small parties. I think that such a big step should be given a more thorough study on your part, seeking the consent of the political world. I ask all of you, ladies and gentlemen, and especially those of the Co-Police that we have the honour of being elected to the Attica Region to the former remnant: How does parliamentary representation be strengthened, when the seats of fifteen and fourteen, when the small area that we represent today is divided, when the Attica region, in which we are elected MPs, loses a seat, though greater in population than the Achaea Prefecture where this seat goes, when the people that we trust will be invited to choose people who do not even know? Explain that this partition will help small parties. Unless your unambiguous response, with which, of course, other parties agree, especially this great New Democracy party, the party of Officerial Response, is that your aim is to dismantle them, to dismantle the small parties. All right, for the New Democracy to understand, but for SYRIZA, who happens to have a government partner a small party, I can't understand it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u303	It's disgraceful!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u304	Some people think they're the odds in here. Another point where its institutionalisation will raise serious issues of constitutionality are the provisions on municipal supervision. Their administrative autonomy, as defined and protected by the provisions of Article 102 of the Constitution, is violated by the specific provisions, the implementation of which is essentially an intervention in the operational aspects of the LAGs, by suffocating the action of local authorities. The constitutionally harmonised dimension of the supervisory body consists solely of the control of the legality of the acts of the monopolies and collective bodies of the EBRD, without such supervision preventing their initiative and free action and, above all, without prejudice to their self-government element, which is clearly being violated. It is being violated, Minister, by the obligation to apply the circulars provided for in Article 109, contrary to the existing regime which the directives of the State have an advisory role and are not enforceable acts. Our approach to local government is that you should give it the role it deserves, i.e. that of parallel to the central state of state institutions, the key partner in development, a responsible guarantor of social cohesion, in order to resist its deterioration to a self-sufficient service of the Ministry of the Interior. I think it is right to accept the amendment by the sixteen colleagues on the timing of municipal and regional elections and on the arrangements for the start of the term of office of the councils. The competence of the joint legislator to identify the municipality in a reasoned manner would be unjustified to exercise through the municipal period that we are currently experiencing, by changing the time of ending it and thus insulting the constitutional right of voters. In accepting this amendment, constitutional problems are removed, which might result from the original provision. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the conflicts which have been unfolded in the Chamber could ultimately lead to a synthetic proposal for the benefit - and in the short and long term - of the core of democracy and representativeness with ultimately benefiting Greek citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u305	Thank you. The floor is for seven minutes, then the President of the New Democracy and then the President of Parliament Mr. Voutsis. Here you go, Mr. Publics. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u306	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister for the Interior, in the heart of the summer you bring us a serious bill that serves your own purposes and needs. It's cut and sewn in your plans. Your practice is well known and it doesn't surprise anyone. Your purpose in this bill is clear. You want to impose what is said in your measures on local and regional government, so that you can put the mayors and districts you are not under control today. You seek to control the municipalities and regions through their full independence and you should strengthen these structures with responsibilities and useful financial instruments. Your premium is unequivocally for minority groups, for that is obviously how you feel, because you are on a run. Because now, with this bill, even on minor issues, each mayor and every regional mayor will be obliged to seek approval of a minority. In other words, you are creating bulbs within the municipalities and regions. You, in your words, were against interests. You are now weaving the web of a new form of interaction in local and regional government. Efforts and evils to keep you in power. I must point out here, as a Jew and a Thrace, that this bill upsets delicate balances in the neural and fragile region of Thrace. National side effects are perhaps created and you will bring responsibility as a party and as a government. I have informed through our regional and mayoral actors your government officials. The Minister for the Interior, if he wishes, is present - I can inform him in detail. In conclusion, I should like to refer to an issue that I have dealt with and, when I was a member of the Greek Parliament, of the New Democracy. Are you afraid of the consequences of Brain Drain? Are you shaking, in particular, those you have persecuted, because they realised that, because of your policy, their future was ruthless at home, and now you are inventing technical and constitutional difficulties so as not to allow them to vote? We have tabled twice a proposal for a law and you have ignored us. And now we are bringing an amendment for the third time through this procedure. In particular, it provides that Greeks who live abroad and are already on the electoral lists to vote in the national elections in the embassies and consulates of Greece abroad. Our proposal, Minister, stems from the Constitution, is legal and can be implemented directly by the next national elections. It is a fundamental democratic and national obligation for the government to adopt the New Democracy proposal and to give its Greeks the opportunity to vote, as is the case throughout the civilised world. But you ask them to come and invest, to help start up our economy. Whatever you do, the Greeks abroad will win this inalienable right. I appreciate not with your own government, but certainly with the government of Mr Mitsotakis, our President. This is our commitment and will be implemented. Mr Barkas, Prime Minister of the Preveza, being a congressman is easy, as it seems. Making the congressman is difficult. And you read history and unorthodox writings, but also backwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u307	Please do not address yourself personally. Mr Barcas will be asking for the floor on personal grounds and we will not be finished.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u308	But neither can you analyse a clean and crystal clear solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u309	Thank you, too. Mr Kedicoglou, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u310	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the bill under discussion, we find a historic - or rather splendid - meeting of Mao with Marx, Mao Tse Tug with Grauccio Marx, a meeting of the Maoist saying: 'Great turbulent, beautiful situation', which, as we know, warmly embraces the Prime Minister and the Marxist, comedist Marxist saying: 'These are my positions, if you do not like them, I also have opposite positions', which is warmly defended in this debate by the Minister for the Interior. It would be the perfect material for a modern aristocratic comedy: a Prime Minister who makes the country a mess and a first-class minister who does not hesitate to self-determination and, indeed, with drum impacts and direct transmission. It would be a splendid comedy and we would laugh very much if it were the imagination of a theatrical writer. Unfortunately, however, this is the reality, the reality of our country and even at a time of suffering. At a time when the economy, the world of production and labour is strangled by wild overtaxation. The small and medium-sized businessman gives 70% to 80% of his turnover to the state and with the rest his business has to operate or rather survive. The average Greek worker works two days a year for the state and with the rest he must live. And they come worse with your new memorial. Here come the low-pensioners who lose one or two pensions and the low-wages who lose one or two wages. And let us not hear again that you have voted for these measures, but you will not apply them. The sufferings that plague the country, because of your governance, are unfortunately not limited to the economy. There we believe that with the right moves, when we become government, we will be able to redress the damage as quickly as possible. We have the plan ready so that we can reduce taxes and start a strong growth in the economy. The worst, however, you have done it in national matters, where we are at risk of irresponsible harm, perhaps because you have an ideological allergy in the sense of the nationalist. Do you understand what happened yesterday in Brussels? With the signing of the Prespecies Agreement, you widened the way to joining NATO, after giving them Macedonian ethnic and Macedonian languages without taking anything, no security. Skopje will become a member of NATO, regardless of whether or not the agreement is ratified by the Greek Parliament, since you have not made sure there is a special condition. The only thing that will affect ratification is what name they will join, Macedonia or Northern Macedonia. NATO member will definitely be. This happens when you look at the national line: ‘First solution and then start an accession process’. That was the Bucharest line you were falsely saying you were following. And as if they did not reach the disastrous results of your secret diplomacy with Skopje, we learn that you are moving along with Albania as well. I had asked from this here Stepma Mr. Kotzias, after his well-known statement of resolution and the Greek Albanians before his holiday, to go directly for a vacation because we have no other supposed success as Skopje. Black humor I did, but reality turns out to be black. We have heard that Mr Kotzias is insisting on secret diplomacy and is negotiating the restructuring of the border with Albania. What borders, in what terms and in what exchanges? Nobody knows, beyond the Prime Minister and his Minister. "I fear all the things that will be done for me, without me," he says the song. And within all this orchestra of negative developments in our economy and national issues, the government brings this draft law on local government. It is a bill that does not deal with any of the existing problems of the municipalities, such as bureaucracy, lack of resources and inefficiency. On the contrary, it creates new problems to a degree of paralysis. Two are the dominant elements that underline that this draft law serves exclusively micro-party purposes. First and foremost, the electoral system which is a guarantee of independence. You know you're not even a majority in any municipality, so you prefer it to become a mess. How will a municipality be run in the most likely case that there is no absolute majority? Nobody knows. Of course according to your ideological origin, your ideal would be for the mayors to be decorative and to place a popular couch in every municipality, according to the Bolsheviks standards. The other element is the repatriation for the time of the local government elections, a crook that will always accompany Mr. Skourletis. You are trying to combine elections to prevent your election crash. You think you'll share your political cost to three, four simultaneous cross-checks. Irresponsible misfortune. It will not divide your costs, it will multiply. And your crash will be absolute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u311	The President of the New Democracy, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u312	Ladies and gentlemen, three months ago, in fact on 19 April, since the Step of the joint conference of the municipalities and regions of the country, I pointed out the Prime Minister's absence from his work. I said at the time that avoiding Mr Tsipras such a serious debate in such a serious forum was an insult to self-government. It declared either personal indifference or a lack of positions. It also recommended a public devaluation of the most basic cell of democracy, i.e. the policy pursued with reference to the daily life of the citizen. I am sorry that today I am forced to return to these issues, as the Prime Minister has again wanted to be absent in the examination of a bill on local government. And to prevent your objections, I explain immediately. Of course I know and know where Mr Tsipras is. However, there is no doubt that this meeting could have been scheduled at some other time. Much more so since this government planning is smashing it with an additional historical mark. A bad law on local societies across borders is being discussed at the same time as the implementation of a bogus agreement outside the borders. While here in Greece the municipalities and regions of the country are being undermined, in Brussels, Mr Tsipras and Mr Kammenos deliver on the substance to Skopje the naval passport and do so, having given the Macedonian identity and Macedonian language three weeks ago. "We gave the Greek erga omnes the name "North Macedonia" and we received the Macedonian ID," he said for word - I repeat for word - Mr Zaev in his interview at the BBC. Erga omnes dangerous you are for the interests of the country, I tell you. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Finally, stop invoking this vile argument that you have handed over citizenship, but not ethnicity. Tell me a country in the world where all its inhabitants will have another ethnic and other citizenship. You gave the Skopje the name and national designation "Macedonians", which all the Greek governments have rejected for twenty-seven years and that is the only truth, no matter how much you insist on denying it. A double shame, then, by a twin of shame! It is serious that you will tell me the word 'dream'. But we must not be afraid of words when they reflect the truth. Of course, we didn't drive things there. We never said we or we'll finish them or we'll be done. Nor are we opposition to the opposition, as you are commanding burnt land. However, we have a responsibility to respond to our institutional role and to give every lie of the government the answer that we have to answer. And we will do so with the strength and determination of a party that has values and values, it also has confidence, it has a plan for where it wants to lead the country. We will not deceive the citizens of the press with cheap slogan is fair and it is done, such as today's rulings who have the nerve even today to play with the agony of the citizens, whom you have led to poverty and despair and who face the exercise of power by unprecedented political cynicism, as is the case at the moment when we are talking to Mr Tsipras and Mr Kammenos, who are still pretending that they disagree at the same time that they are being tied even tighter in their chairs shaking not to lose them. In Brussels yesterday and today, the ANLLs are practically consenting to an agreement which they denounce in the words and which they say when the time comes, at some point in the future, will throw the government down. However, all Ministers remain. And Mr. Kammenis is rounding next to Mr. Tsipras, while Skopje is getting a NATO membership passport. It's a sad sight for both of you! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Also in Athens, SYRIZA promotes a law for which the ANEL MPs had reservations, but still a majority of the government. On a one-sided road, these partners meet on the road of the chair, on the road of personal interest, on the road of lies, on the road of demagogy and on the road of personal rescue, as they are already at risk. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill under discussion includes two hundred and fifty articles. But two are his main predictions. The mere proportionalness of local and regional elections and the change in the term of office, but mainly of the time of the local leaders. I would probably say the initial attempt to change time, because we have come back to what was originally legislated, with a slight change. All the rest concerns bureaucratic and only regulations, minor changes in the daily lives of the municipalities and regions. That's right, so, in these two key choices, I want to stand. Point first and slightly smug, as it appeared during this debate, is the timing of the elections. The latest developments and what has taken place in the House over the last few days show that even the elections of mayors and regionals want you to turn them into a micropolitical euphoria. Mr Skourletis, you have not said that local elections and European elections should not coincide, because this distorts the risk of self-government elections. You said that, didn't you? You never disproved them. But now, as you realise - I do not know if you or anyone else may understand - how you are going to succeed in successive defeats, you are attempting to change the dates of the local elections again. So, you, the Prime Minister, I don't know - sixteen Members of your Parliament, who are willing to dismiss your own rules, even twice. The first time you did it wrong. If you weren't stalkers and dangerous, you'd just be handwriting! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I really wonder, Mr Skourletis, how you feel when your Prime Minister is directing you. Doesn't your ear sweat at all? We said, okay, I get it, everything about the chair. But here there was an amendment from sixteen Members, obviously headed by Maximus, and you were stripped dry. I doubt you knew that. You, too, sit awkward and unrelenting. Really, you will not stop, gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANEL, surprise us what you will do to stay stuck in the chair! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Of course, with what you are doing, and with what you imply, we may have triple, quadruple elections in May 2019, you undermine self-government, you trade the institutions and try unprecedented, even - I would say - for the wild times of the recent past, electoral methods. But it's pointless. The bill will come to all the polls whenever they stand! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] National elections, European elections, self-government. You want to do them all together? Try it! You will understand that society has already decided to punish you with its vote. The popular discontent will neither be confused nor will be shared if you set more polls. It will turn into a frontal rejection of the government. So don't have to be delusional too. If you try, you'll lose all over the place and lose all of it. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The second point concerns the mere proportionalness of the local elections. I wonder, Mr Skourletis and gentlemen of SYRIZA: Are you not interested in the views of the CEDEFOP, the large majority of the mayors? Aren't these the people who rule the municipalities every day? And you do not recognise that with what you are doing, you are actually driving local government - the first and second degree cell of democracy - into dissolution and paralysis? Everyone tells you. Everyone told you with one voice. The HND told you, all the district officers told you, almost all mayors told you with little exceptions to the mayors who have direct reference to SYRIZA. So why are you doing this, Mr. Skourlet? And if the administration - and I would like to say it and hear it from those who are following this debate - of a municipality paralyzed with this electoral law - an abortion that you are bringing, that will have consequences. It will have an impact on garbage, cleanliness, green lighting, children's joys, children's stations, promotional services, development projects, management of the NRP, countless small and large issues related to citizens' lives. Make the municipalities and regions experimental animals of your micro-political designs and play essentially with people's lives to be saved. And it is at least challenging in this Chamber and enthusiasm to speak of a culture of consensus and cooperation, his party "we or they", his party "or we end them or we end them", the most divisive and politically dishonest government this place has ever known! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And the man who was asking to finish the political leaders - who set him back so that the country won't blow up in the air in August 2015 -- of course deceived them as well. You guys gonna talk about partnerships? What you are seeking is not representative democracy, but the introduction of the political transaction. It is something that will bring either one-off elections or permanent failure to take decisions and produce projects, which will ultimately lead to the undermining of every local authority so that once again the central authority can decide and order. And I want to say one more thing. You have to think about it. This system enables every political persecutor, as well as the Golden Dawn to build backings in the municipalities. From a political donor, you are now also an electorate of benefactors. This is the mirror of your own policy. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will say again what I had declared at the last CSCE and HSY conference. For me there are no blue, green, red, pink authorities, no blue, red, green mayors and regionals. That's over. Politics, society, the country has left it behind. In local government much more than in central government the division lines of the past fade away. And what should separate us from us alone is the incision with the past, in which we must not turn. Of course, it is the battle with the day-to-day problems, which must be stable and continuous for safety, cleanliness, free spaces, safe parks, but also the wider development of each region, depending on its specific features - which is particularly relevant to the regions of the country - and the integration of each region into a comprehensive plan and its autonomous and pioneering action and why not fair competition between regions by exploiting European cooperation and European funding instruments. All this, of course, cannot and will not happen when resources are retained by a superfood central state. And they cannot be designed in the midst of today's bureaucratic wave, choking every creative daring and innovative initiative in local self-government. And, of course, we cannot support such actions with budgets for the municipalities and regions that correspond to about - I said it at the conference - one third of the European average. This bill could have been a great opportunity for us all to make a great institutional section in local government together, but that is not it. It does not open streets precisely because it reflects a closed perception of local government's action. However, local government and in extremely difficult conditions has already demonstrated its potential. Despite the indifference or open war of the central authority, he stands up, he stands in the lead in social solidarity, he fights unequal with the refugee waves, exceeds for his own problems of mismanagement, which have been in the past. That is why I have good reason to be able to optimize. As for our special plan, I do not hesitate to say that it coincides with the positions of the local authorities themselves. And our proposals are a guide to the legislation of the next government, which will even be submitted within the first six months of its term of office. That means four things. A bold redefinition of responsibilities between state, regions and municipalities. Determine what that means, which we call multi-level governance and courageously transfer to local self-government of critical areas, such as urban planning. General rules must be observed and must be obeyed by local government, but it is not the final decision - take note - for a city plan to be decided by an official at a Ministry in Athens and not by the relevant municipal council. Secondly, a bold allocation of funds to self-government rather than the piracy of its reserves today, so that the government can show up on the ground. We will at some point discuss the possibility that local government can impose the same taxes and collect the revenue from these taxes. But, before we reach this point, it should have the possibility of making more flexible use of its assets and, of course, of being able to exploit the possibilities of the existing legal framework for public-private partnerships with much more flexibility and greater autonomy. Thirdly, central government supervision must be carried out as laid down in the Constitution. But it must at the same time be done through rapid and simple procedures that will not hinder the work of self-government. In budgets, for example, the audit must be accountable, but under no circumstances should it be extended to the feasibility of decisions. It is for this reason that the local authorities are elected to decide, boldly, to act consistently and, of course, to take responsibility for their decisions and actions. And fourthly, we need a brave internal reorganisation of the municipalities and regions, a clarification of the needs, the potential required, a system of evaluation of employees efficiently. Really, I see the Minister of Administrative Reform, or whatever you have called the Ministry now. What happened to this notorious assessment of civil servants, which you so rampantly fought when you were in the opposition? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But there's one more thing we need. They need evaluation systems that take account of the citizen's opinion. Systems for measuring the quality of services provided by the citizen himself. And finally, yes, a flexible mobility system only, however, with the agreement of the agency of origin and objective criteria. It is not possible, I have said many times, for mobility to be the tool, with which small island municipalities, which, as you have done, have the effect of bleeding staff and not being able to respond to their obligations. I could describe our plan in more detail. However, I think that today, in the interests of the debate, these four central guidelines are sufficient. Ladies and gentlemen, I now come to the issues of the changes that the government promotes in the electoral law on national elections. First of all, I would like to point out the absolute irrationality. The government, in the midst of a term, promotes a second change in the electoral law, which concerns the larger regions of the country, a few months before the national elections. We should not even enter this debate under normal circumstances. However, we are responsible for opposition, and we have therefore proposed to the government an honest and proper solution. Along with the fragmentation of the second Athens and the Attica district - a right move, a necessary move, I have supported it since 2004, when I was first elected MP at the Athens Concert Hall - to give now - I repeat - the opportunity for our fellow citizens, registered on the electoral lists they live abroad, to vote on from their permanent residence. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] What are you afraid of, Mr. Skourletis, and you don't do it now? The government has persistently refused the debate. I quote: the government and the President of Parliament did not even dare plan the debate we had requested on this matter beforehand. You did not even plan it and we dismissed the minority right because you never wanted this debate to be held. And now, of course, your study to refer this matter to a committee - so to the bells, do not be fooled - is interpretable. The government's majority fears the political verdict of young people who have fooled and kicked out of the country. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So you fear the crisis of the Greeks who live abroad, who now have experience through their everyday lives in modern states and modern democracies, of those who know how the country could be if the SYRIZA - ANEL had not set the reverse. But if things stay like this, it's a very bad thing in our democracy. It is an insult to a chosen part of our nation, in which the House today has to address and commit that this situation will change and change now, especially in the generation of Brain Drain. What do you say, Mr. Skourletis, to these four hundred thousand young people who have left our country in recent years? Why are they forbidden to participate in decision-making on their own lives? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Do we have a democracy of many speeds, more for some and less for others? Why are you afraid of their judgment? One more thing: It is also worth wondering, those who are working everything on a class base to make sure that they do not understand the obvious, that your refusal to accept the amendment we have tabled is the foundation of a profound undemocratic discrimination. You are essentially linking the vote of Greek citizens abroad with their economic power. Anyone with money can take the plane back. Anyone who has no right to decide on his future is deprived of the right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u313	You brought them for free!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u314	Shame on you! You're already on top? Aren't you embarrassed? Go tell those who hear the conversation. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Say these, express your wrath.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u315	Give the money back. Give back the $200 million!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u316	Say that, say it more! You are not just cynical, you are deeply undemocratic in this attitude, which you are emiting today. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You know, right now it's afternoon in the other European countries, it's night in Australia, it's morning in America. All Greeks who live abroad, however, will get the message from today's meeting, will see your sad reactions. Don't worry, they may not be able to come to this election. They will remember, however, who denied them the opportunity, we had the opportunity to do so now and you did not. They'll remember every moment. They will also remember your sad reactions. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We could tell them that yes, it is simple, technically done and we will find the way to vote from where you are. Here is the amendment, very detailed, very well documented. You can accept it today, Mr Skourletis, and I would like your oral answer, whether or not you accept the amendment we have tabled and if you do not accept it, because you do not accept it. Do you not like what we have proposed or do you not accept it, to refer the matter to the future and at some point to be forgotten in the blur and intensity of the election period? We should say normally, if you had the courage to have all the Greeks outside Greece that, yes, we want you to be involved in criticising our mistakes and arrogants in overcoming them, but above all we want all the Greeks who live today in the building of a country that is modern, proud, strong, creative and optimistic and that your participation in the elections is not only perceived as a bridge above borders, over time, over and above your connection and participation on the next day of Greece. Because you who live today abroad are the businessmen who will invest here in our country tomorrow. Of course, the children who have left, yes, you are the young who will eventually return to transform your knowledge, experiences and creativity. Personally, I have proved as New Democracy our great faith in the Greeks of the diaspora. We want them all by our side so we can finally go together. However, it is clear that it also seemed clear from your sad reaction today that Mr. Tsipras and the rest of you, all of you, want Greece, a country isolated, closed behind a curtain of lies and authoritarianism. These are molestations from the past. They can't stand the present, of course, they don't have a future. We are saying this clearly to all Greeks abroad who are listening to us today: Come to vote in the next election, to be the last time you will have to travel, to exercise your right to vote. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Because in the new electoral law that we will be voting on after the next elections - I do not imagine that we will be staying for a long time with the simple analogue - we will finally give the Greeks of foreigners the opportunity to vote in their permanent residence. Even if our proposal is rejected now, I commit that we will return it as soon as we become a government and then no one will be able to hide behind committees and other pretexts. If you would like, then, Minister, to make an elementary democratic exaggeration and to escape a little from this climate of unnecessarily toxicity, which you are horrificly cultivating, then vote for our amendment here today. I'm tabling it again in the Minutes. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis tables for the Minutes the above amendment, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We're making our own excess, Mr. Skourlet. For reasons of principle, which I have put forward for many years, we are in favour of the fragmentation of the major regions. That is why today we will be voting on the article in which the division of the Second Athens and the Attica Region is taking place. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Because we are defending the quality of our democracy, transparency, credibility in politics, but also for one more reason. We are not giving you the policy, which we first introduced two years ago in this Chamber. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So the challenge to you all is clear. The new Republic today gives the green light to break the two major constituencies from the next elections. So you seem to be, Mr Tsipras, and you have once again been consistent. You dare to do the same for the vote of the Greeks abroad. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am closing my speech with a wider political observation. We are living the twilight of a regime, which wants to give the impression that it works for many while in fact it seeks only to do the carpets of a few party customers. All of this, while trying in every way and as it can undermine the country's and the next government's progress. Because as the national interest was violated with lies and demagogy in 2015, this is how they are undermined by bills, such as today, the institutions. Institutions are turning in 2018. This is, of course, only one aspect of an overall dark picture. Those who a year ago promised fair growth eventually brought the informal fourth memorandum by 2022 and went to hide by lying out on the markets the supposed end of austerity. They create that some time increases will come while taxes and contributions are installed for good in the pockets of the Greeks. From now on, 11 billion euros will have to be paid by the Greeks. They are the ones who exchange the easy words of foreigners abroad with expensive and hard measures internally. They are those who promote allowances at the same time as cutting pensions. SYRIZA and ANEL continue to make politics with lies and use power as a tool to divide. With time to count vice versa, with their term of office being stolen, they are becoming more and more ruthless, more cynical, more and worse and for that, more and more dangerous. We know that. It's not something that scares us. We are here to put the country back on the path of democratic normality. We have confidence in the citizens as well, but also in the maturity of society. We are determined to assume the great responsibility of regeneration of our country together with all - I repeat, together with all - creative, reformist forces. We have a plan. We have executives. We have knowledge. We have a vision. We are an open party for the future. We're talking the language of the truth. We are doing our utmost and realism, and above all, we unite and do not divide the Greeks. That is why we are optimistic, because we can see behind the last-minute governmental medals and sad bills, such as today's, the country fleeing the downhill of populism, rise again, go higher where it deserves it. Because all Greeks deserve better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u317	Mr. Skourletis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u318	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President of the New Democracy, I am opposed to all your references to the tradition of Macedonian identity, language and ethnicity, because they have been said on several occasions. I know that this will be the permanent pattern of your interventions on these issues. But be careful. Adopting this final, far-right speech, all it does is to be an umbrella for the Golden Dawn. [[Noise - protests from the New Democracy Wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, please. And then it won't take the simple analogy to get into the municipal councils. They will enter with your policy and this particular competition you show around the crucial foreign policy issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u319	I'm sorry, Mr. President, did you give him the floor to say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u320	Please, I can't control the Minister. What are you talking about? Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u321	Take it easy, ladies and gentlemen. I want to focus on a number of critical issues, which are closely related to Mr Mitsotakis, and which have to do with public administration and local administration. Mr Mitsotakis referred to the question of evaluation and criticised the government for how it managed them. Remember the 15% misuse clause and throw civil servants into unemployment? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Is that the assessment you want? The redundancies, the availability, the abolition of municipal police? Ask the self-government what they say. Do you want the evaluation of school guards, workers in technical high school who learned one day, one noon on television that their qualifications are being abolished? Is that the evaluation? Is the mobility of compulsory transfers? You don't know, Mr. Captain, that there is a security net? And now the municipalities want mobility to be activated, because it will be to their benefit. Do you not know that when 60% of organic positions are not covered, can it not apply? As far as resources are concerned, you referred to the percentage of resources allocated to self-government, compared with the European average. Is it or is it not true that from 2010 to 2015 you deprived self-government from 65% of resources?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u322	Did you give it to him?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u323	Of course, we have given everything that was in the intended doses for the so-called omissions. And it's not just that, but since 2017, we've been following a small steady increase. EUR 2,400,000 has now been activated for specific funding programmes, for infrastructure in municipalities and communities.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u324	And Mandra's drowning again!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u325	So compare them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u326	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u327	Are you talking, Mr. Bourra, about Mandra? Are you talking about being a prefect and having responsibilities that you illegally set up a city on the streams? It's disgraceful! Shame on you! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Do you have the nerve to talk? Get your head down with the disgraces you've done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u328	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u329	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u330	Mr. Bourra, please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u331	In any case, the last thing I want to say is that the rest will be told when we finish the debate...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u332	Did he tell a congressman to bend the head?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u333	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u334	Rescind!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u335	Mr. Bourra, please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u336	You didn't say...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u337	Aren't you ashamed to tell a congressman to bend his head?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u338	Mr. Javarra, you're not allowed now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u339	Rescind!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u340	You did not tell the Chief of your Party that he should finally tell us, as we speak about Government, if he insists on one to five in his rule.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u341	Minister, I would like to ask you not to speak by name.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u342	I shall conclude, Mr President. He interrupted me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u343	Okay, but don't address them by name.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u344	Tell us about the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u345	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u346	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u347	For the amendment, tell us!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u348	I am very pleased that after this four-day margarita mound "I am or am not in favour of partitioning the second Athens" - you did not tell us - you finally adopted it and that is positive. I would suggest that you commit yourself to something else, which is very important for self-government, since you have referred to responsibilities very much. Make a commitment that we will go for a constitutional review of Article 102 to see again the issue of responsibilities for a strong local government. So make a commitment now. Here and now. The challenge is specific.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u349	Answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u350	Please, the President of Parliament, Mr. Voutsis, will have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u351	An answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u352	No, please, Mr President, I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u353	But, Mr. Javarra, he's the President of the House. I'll give you after the speech. He asked for the floor a while ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u354	You should have the courage to apologize now. It upsets me very much. I'm in Mandra every day and you're telling me to bend my head? I feel proud, Minister, to serve this region. I feel proud.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u355	Mr. Bourra, don't have a dialogue. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u356	On personal grounds, Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u357	Please, be quiet. He's the President of the House. He's talking now. Then. Mr President, start.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u358	I want the floor, Mr President, for a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u359	No, Mr. Bourra, please. Help out a little bit. I'll give you the word after. Let's take it easy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u360	Mr President, I am sorry, but I have to answer the Minister, and I am sorry that the President thus prevents me as deputy to the President of the New Democracy from giving the answer to the President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u361	Mr. Javarra, you'll talk later.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u362	Mr President of the House, please, at the moment you are preventing a dialogue from developing on the basis of the principle of directness and orality. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Sit down, finally! Habra is not the House, and you won't do it either! Habra, this House isn't! You must finally feel that by your behaviour you contribute to the humiliation of the House. You must finally decide whether to be with Parliament and democracy or be with these ministers. You have to decide.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u363	Mr. Javarra, the President of Parliament has asked for the floor beforehand. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u364	Mr President of the House, what has happened in the Chamber before, Minister to say to a Member that he has to bend his head, you first had to defend it and rebuild it. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u365	Mr. Javarra, I'll give you the floor later. Mr President, start the speech. Help, Mr. Javarra. What do you want us to do?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u366	I am sorry that you are preventing us from telling this Minister that he has to respect Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u367	Let the Minister withdraw now, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u368	Let me place myself, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u369	Mr. Bourra, please. Mr President, please start.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u370	I'm proud to serve the area. In fact, I have been honoured by this difficult region for many years and cannot be misled by the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u371	Mr. Bourra, please! Mr President, please start.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u372	And please, Mr President, for your place.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u373	Mr. Bourra, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u374	Please, Mr President, for your speech on the unacceptableness of the style...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u375	Say that loud thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u376	I said it as hard as possible. It doesn't give me the floor, Minister. Tell me, "You're not ashamed of yourself"?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u377	Please, Mr. Voridis, help yourself. Let the President speak now and then on personal grounds to give the floor to Mr Javarra. Mr President, you have the floor. You can start.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u378	Unfortunately there are many things that each of us understands that he would not say if he was cooler and calm, if there were no interference with voices. The "Mandra, Mandra" did not tell the people of Mandra who know very well what has happened in Mandra for so many years. It was said in here. So the Minister has every reason to place himself. Evidently he said, "Get your head up" etc. That's not the point. But you too realise that on such a crucial issue - our country is counting twenty-five citizens - it is not possible to carry out propaganda and such rhetoric in here. If you want, you can take the floor, tell about Mandra, then come the findings, be placed by the ministers, without saying such expressions. I would ask that we be quiet now and that the debate proceed. I had in mind speaking as former Minister of the Interior. I had the honour of being Minister of the Interior at the first left government - we are glad to say it and it will be the next one and the next! - and I can't obviously leave two, three things that have been heard, which are very important. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is an apologetic attitude to the Macedonian in front of the astonishing international community, which obviously cannot understand the incomprehensible ones anymore, following the explanations given and the dialogue that has been made, arguments against a very good agreement which, if it succeeds and passes through all the stages envisaged, can and must come to Parliament and be voted on. Let me say that it is not possible to continue a propaganda of falsehood, which is based on a rhetoric by Mr Gruevski and Mr Ivanov. If we have previously heard what Mr Zaev said, trying to pass this agreement on to his country, it is unacceptable to hear it coated with the rhetoric of this hard wars and any other agreement. I also believe that there is an attempt to return to the extremely subtle policy of immorality erga omnes. That was for twenty-five years, a foreign policy with efforts, with approaches, but when we reached the point that we had to put 'the finger on the type of suns' and make more systematic efforts, we were left in a policy of immobilisation. We will not come back to this immobilization policy! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We will not also come back, and we will not accept a rhetoric of extreme political opportunism - and we will have an erga omnes - and one, let me say, nationalist and far-right rhetoric, which now has one single objective: the proclaiming of a political and electoral dividend from the Golden Dawn, playing dangerously on the agenda of the Golden Dawn. This is unacceptable and in the medium to long term will, first of all, affect those who flirt with this policy. Because you see very well that mushrooms come out of extreme right-wing cultures in our country, precisely because they say 100% with their name, as well as in Europe. Those of you who want to watch, seeing it as a current that will obviously dissolve the European Union, are a current that raises walls between peoples, peoples, states, between visions and hopes, in the future of the European Union itself. So this rhetoric, first of all, completely undermines democracy in relation to the debate on international relations, the need to have agreements with compromises, with all national laws guaranteed, with the international agreements between Bucharest and Vienna, and with all the data that suggest that we can move forward for a wider role in the Balkans, in the region as a pole of stability. We need to move on with this top issue in the next few months. Stop mocking those who call "tunkers, traitors politicians", assuming they're only yelling for the Left. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You are making a big mistake, as you were wrong not condemned by this Step, even though it was caused, this slogan that exists in all the small, smaller or even larger world presences at specific events. Take this as advice through the very great experience we have and as the Left in these matters. Ladies and gentlemen, a number of questions have been raised here and I will repeat them. Firstly, the Minister for the Interior yesterday caused it - in the good sense - and he said 'please bring us a municipality, two municipalities, three municipalities, two regions that have been wronged by the present situation over the three years on the basis of political, party and selective concepts and have not received these additional funds, etc.'. A reply has not been given. Secondly, the question to Mrs Gennamas, who told us again this morning about the vision of PASOK, about these things, about local selfgovernment. Good things. I asked her the question: Please, can you tell us now a bill, on which chapters, issues, regulations, etc., to which is there a contradiction? Because he said he would abolish everything and we should go to another framework, because this whole - I am not talking about the electoral system - is a wrong bill. Previously, it sounded like it was a poor bill. Please, you've had two days, you've got two more hours. Tell chapter to chapter what is wrong, what needs to be changed. Because I will tell you, despite the leaderships of the CEDEFOP and the EIA, that 90% of what this bill contains in detail are requests, issues, mature needs that have been requested from the municipalities, from all levels, from the regions. Of course, they had other requests not included today, etc. That's what this is about. Why doesn't anyone have the honesty to say it? Why don't you say it? It was not said in the committees either. I looked into the minutes, so many announcements. Nowhere in. For all these issues, which are institutional reforms, are the four-year operational programmes and annual action programmes, it is the economic function of the TAAs, it is a new way for the CFPs much better, it is for the Municipal Economic Independence Observatory on a better basis, it is for aid with advisors, partners and scientific potential of the municipalities, it is for the VESA, not for the number. You want these to go? Is that what the Chief of Staff said earlier? That's what he said. You probably haven't told him anything, you haven't explained it to him. All of these are mature demands, because it is obvious that it is a multi-democratic intervention, which is carried out on the part of the government with too many objectives. On some issues there are the contradictions with the electoral system, let us say - which I will refer to at the end - but which is necessary, critical, mature changes, in relation to the previous context. Let me say something else. What did we receive as it had matured, had taken place in the first few years and had been operating in the 'Kallikaratis', in a crisis, in a major economic crisis? What did we receive? 60% of the CAP had been allocated. Isn't that right? What else? Was there a major conflict with decentralised administrations? Did the demand from everywhere that there should not be a reasonable check, but only legality from the decentralised administrations? Have we not worked out what today's bill tells us that there should be an independent agency for the legal supervision of the municipalities outside the decentralised administration involving the sperm of the feasibility machine? Yes or no? Why didn't you say that? Why don't you just say these are big sections? Why don't you say it? The beloved Stavros Theodorakis - who was studied and made noble interventions and tries to make a reform effort with his own perspective, etc. - he did not know that for the first time in Greece, where we came into contact - nor did we know his X-ray - with a structured client state in the field of local self-government, allegedly, decentralised administrations - were essentially decentralised because all the orders were gone directly from the minister - in this area we were making the largest division. Mr. Mitsotakis isn't listening. He only listens to the Prime Minister. It's okay. And you dare in here say about public administration? I found seven excellent secretaries of decentralized administrations. Partially, all of you. Good gentlemen. I don't remember if there was a lady. And what did we say? We said that for secretaries of decentralised administrations instead of entering seven Syrians - which you would have nothing to say, I speak very openly to get in here - the oldest directors will be in the competitive process and in the transitional phase, who have played this role one year and a half, because then they have changed and made the elections, etc. For the first time, decentralised administrations are not with a party leader who communicates with the Minister. What's that, any detail? Am I supposed to be in here? I know because I was a Interior Minister in the first place? Has he been hidden? So that's all in this area. There have been sectors at all the other levels of this bill. See article to Article, chapter to chapter, corrective actions, aids, support for popular participation, programming, budgeting, how the institutions, legal services, the possibility of business contracts and the presentation of works, construction projects, in consultation with other services, the relationship between the region and the municipalities. It is obvious that serious things, as you have put forward and have a position, are not included in terms of resources and responsibilities, not only because they are from the Constitution, or because there is not much money, but because that is why you have given us this previous reform. Did you forget? That is, all right, we forgot about 60%, when I was in the Standing Committee here and we talked - and I have told you before - the proposal that "local government within this framework had come before you to move better". They weren't screaming like that when it was 20 percent cut. Say that's out of the question. The other thing, in relation to what we are now discussing about local government, namely that Kalikaratis did not get the dowry - and you know it - of 4 billion - is it not? - the economic programme 'ELLADA', to make it possible for these powers, these resources and to enable regions and municipalities to function properly. Because of economic crisis, because of bad calculation, because of other priorities, she didn't take it. It started with a great disability, which is trying to restore, as the Minister said now, and has brought money, money, things that have been given. It is obviously not restored to the level we are discussing, but it is actually trying to restore the present government, which is difficult, but these are the realities. Likewise, let me say - even when the years go by - that the aid given to local government was unfortunately given on the basis of customer, party preferences. So it was raining in Moschato, it wasn't raining in Callithea and Taurus. Unfortunately, I had the privilege of having the files of all the previous funding, which have been given. On the basis of funds to repair damage from our famous misfortune and sinks, etc. A case of this kind had been set up. We're trying to restore them. I honor the municipalities, the regions, and this House must honour the Ottawas, which in spite of all the decisions taken - I say neutral - in the case of the huge reduction in the CAP, have been able to harmonise several times with the citizens of both the issues mentioned before, namely the issue of social relief due to the crisis and the issue of refugee - immigration, to a large extent, some people, to a lesser extent, but some third parties have been able to stand up and stay in Greek society. This is important and has nothing to do with red, green, blue or nothing. Let's all recognize it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u379	Mr President, these are prerequisites for a strong municipal authority and with the simple analogue it will not be possible...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u380	Please, Mr. Athanasios!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u381	I come to the matter of mere analogy, to tell you something, to come to an understanding. Ladies and gentlemen, I have lived all along, and just before - the Left in all its faces - raised the issue - and, more generally, put it the democratic, progressive front, as it was called every time, and a party, PASOK, is written in all its pounds - of mere analogy for both the country and the local government. Well, did you assume the Left would be in the government and wouldn't make the simple analogue for the country and local government?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u382	The first semester, why didn't you do it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u383	I have heard the Chief of Officer's Anti-Population - I have already heard as if we were talking, if you'll excuse me, of any carcinomas, of any plague - which he said, "Look, this is not, of course, simply proportional..." etc. All the others that have been committed to electoral systems, to a client state, which has led to the bankruptcy of the country, etc.Huh? This is an eight-party House, ladies and gentlemen, through a monstrous, privileged system of bonus voting, etc. This is an eight-party parliament. These issues are political. Do you know that in all the major regions and the large municipalities with 2% and less elected by this law as well? So what's the whole gun cloning for terrible government? What's the matter? You'll tell me, "This is a question of general values on the left, and that's why you're bringing it? Is that an argument?’ No, it is the concept of the Left that societies, autonomous initiatives, creative homes, local initiatives, all these cells that give the result of the democratic cell, for which I also heard twenty minutes ago. It is good to call it a 'democratic cell', but how will this thing flourish? Is it risky? Riskska, no risk. It is, however, one of the areas where his Greece after the crisis, after the bankruptcy, after the attempt now being made to restructure production, social shocks, the possibility of redistributing all the initiatives within the country, within this effort is an organic part of this reform. So the doors, windows, fresh air, can open up these possibilities that this bill gives, and for the simple analogue, new powers can come from all sides. I believe, first of all, that they were present in the eight years of the crisis. No general factors, agents or extreme rightists will come. Why? Because they are convenient elsewhere, while with the windows and doors opened by the simple analogue, the living forces, young people, economists, creative homes, the people who kept the social grocery stores, who kept the social hospitals and who cooperated with the local government, with the region, wherever possible. [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from SYRIZA Wing]] Come and take this whole step together. Why, in other words, so much terrorisation that we should not do so? Allow me, because I have taken too much time - I have passed away and I am very sorry, I have had enough to say from my experience, from my term of office at the Ministry - to say that I am personally proud to be President, of being present, of a parliament where such legislation, powerful radical reforms come to the vote, to express themselves and to be able to breathe. I challenge all parties' leaders again, the Parliamentary Representatives - because I have listened with caution to you all - on the substance and not on a rhetoric and vexatology and surface, to have a fertile dialogue even now, and at night to vote by a large majority on a bill that gives breath to democracy, society and the future of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u384	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that Members of the New Democracy have requested a roll-call vote under Rule 72(1) of the Rules of Procedure on the principle and Articles 28 and 56 of the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u385	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u386	Mr. Javarra, would you like to speak on personal grounds?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u387	Oh, no. As Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u388	For six minutes under the Rules of Procedure. Because your Chief has spoken, you are entitled to half a year.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u389	I would like to begin first by the President of Parliament. Having asked the Parliamentary Representatives to place themselves in what he said directly and without spins, Mr President, I have to say to you: Only respect for the office of the President of Parliament prevents me from speaking and addressing Mr Voutsi as he deserves, after what we have heard. It is the first time in this Chamber that so remarkably, so unequivocally - so that I do not use another word - the President of the Parliament is the advocacy of a government, which just a moment ago through its representative, the Minister of Interior, in this Chamber called for a Member of this Parliament, a representative of the Greek people, to bend the head. Listen, Minister: The representatives of the Greek people, at least those who have the honor of expressing and being with the party of New Democracy, do not bend the head. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I would especially expect you, to speak to you exactly as you deserve, to have at least the wisdom that has often created humiliation, because this morning you have really been humiliated by this amendment from the 16 Members of your party. However, while you should be intelligent at least political and decency but, above all, restrained, you have addressed an unprecedented personal attack on the Chief of Officerial Reform and indeed on the right to answer from the existing Minister for Administrative Reform, because the question of evaluation, which Mr Mitsotakis raised, was not about you. It is precisely because your soul is overthrown by the humiliation you have accepted - and you have been undisputed about it - in the name of the Great Left, which obviously does not know what human dignity means, which does not understand what self-respect and which in the name of party centralism tolerates everything, so you have come to be redundant and bend the office of a Minister of a government that has democratic legitimacy. [[Noise in the Chamber]] [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You should have given up. However, you have reached this unprecedented point of ungratefulness, calling for a Member of the Greek Parliament to bend the head.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u390	Shame on you! We're not a court martial here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u391	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u392	What are you listening to? Get out of here!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u393	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u394	Listen, gentlemen, this is over. Today I think that everyone, at least those who understand what democracy means and how popular sovereignty works, have fully understood that this government, and especially this Parliament in its term of office with today's President, has fallen apart from institutional, moral and political.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u395	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u396	Mr. Javarra, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u397	I would therefore ask the Minister, in particular, firstly to withdraw what he said to the honourable Member, Mr Bourras. Secondly, if you would like, Mr President of Parliament, to speak, should you at least, from this step, have explained to us what constitutes this large section which introduces this bill in favour of the proper and effective functioning of local government bodies? I would really like to know if you are the President of this House satisfied that, on your day, a piece of legislation that is written in hand and which, in fact, says the Citizens' Counselor in the report he has incorporated into you - does nothing but arrogance additions, replacements and amendments of a law, of n. In this context, it is clear that there is a need for a common foreign and security policy to be based on a common foreign and security policy, a common defence policy, a common defence policy, a common defence policy, a common defence policy, a common defence policy, a common defence policy, a common defence policy, a common defence policy, a common defence policy, a common defence policy, a common defence policy, a common defence policy, a common defence policy, a common defence policy, a common defence policy, a common defence policy, a common defence policy, a common defence policy, a common defence policy, a common defence policy, a common defence policy, a common defence policy, a common defence policy, a common defence policy, a common defence policy, a common defence policy, a common defence policy, a common defence policy, a common defence This is the great contribution of the Left Government, the way you mean this Left. I do not know whether you have at least been informed of Mr Melanson's appreciation for your Left. It is indifferent to me, I simply say it about the completeness of informing the Greek people. I would just really like to ask you, at least since you are so interested as President of Parliament in the excellence of legislative work, to bother not only listening to our voices that you do not like, because you think that they are malicious objections to this grand work carried out by this government, which does not have a face to see the Greek people, who really, wherever they go, only receives protests about the great effort they make to reconstruct the country. Of course the Greek people seem to understand it. You and Mr. Tsipras understand that. But, at last, you should, if you want in this place to agree, resign from this self-righteous, completely autistic relationship that you have with the political reality of the country. I do not understand what it is that prevents you from realising that all Greece, the whole world, the whole world of local government is against you. What is really worth wondering and I would like the President of this House to know, because it seems that the Minister has not succeeded in persuading us with the growing experience he has gained as Minister of the Interior, to tell us why all the bodies that have produced from this Chamber during the work of the committee which has worked out this bill have not found a good word to say about this bill. What is the reason for this refusal, this obsession of all representatives of local government in the fact that this bill puts a tombstone on an institution intended by the Greek Constitution with Article 102 to serve and effectively manage local affairs? Where, then, are you getting this right to succeed against Officer Opposition when those who are the natural responsible and political servants of local government did not find themselves saying a good reason for this bill? Apparently, elsewhere, it's your problem. Your problem - I have said it before and I will repeat it - is that what really prevents you from finding out what the reality is every time is this ideological blindness that you systematically cultivate and, in particular, this empathy for the political opponents you always name as enemies of the people, just to get your identity. Your identity, unfortunately, is the identity of the people who will remain in the history of the country as the left-wing mobs of a truly democratic regime and a genuinely free economy, which with deceptive promises succeeded in taking it back twenty years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u398	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u399	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u400	Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u401	Staff only. I am not going to mention any case in all the ideological, theoretical and philosophical terms said by the dear Mr Javarras. I should like to refer to the question he raised, because I would like to raise these three questions: 90% of the issues that exist here in the bill are requests which were submitted to us - and then submitted - by local authorities. There is full satisfaction with this. It was just my question why it wasn't expressed. It is clear that there is a strong dispute over the mere analogy and other issues relating to the electoral system. That's clear and that's too thick.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u402	It's fundamental.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u403	Fundamental, I have no objection. I am simply telling you that the corpus is a step - I say a very serious step, another says not a very serious step - but neither is it, nor is it useless, nor should it be, or should be, an evaluation of this type carried out on certain aspects. That's what I told you. The gentlemen were present, and they consented. You understood that both Mr Patoulis and Mr Agorastos and others, who were present, know that we have been through. Mr. Skourlett a year and a half now he's fighting it. They strongly disagreed on the electoral system and on the other. I told you quite simply that it is now the Left in the government and will do what it has been saying for decades that it has to be done. We may disagree, but it doesn't mean that we have to fire this excellent work that can give breath. There's my disagreement, Mr. Javarra. I don't have anything else, it's clear. Everything you said obviously lies in the fact that you're from there and I'm sitting from here, but it's not you or us. Away from me, these perceptions. We coexist and coexist.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u404	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u405	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u406	Mr. Theocharopoulos, excuse me, but before you Mr. Haritsis has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u407	Mr President, this is not a game for two Parliament, a two-party scene between Syriza and New Democracy!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u408	Slow down. One by one, not all together. Tell me what you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u409	Mr President, the Minister invited us as a party to speak and say our views, and so did the dear President of the House a moment ago. You have given the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative twice more. We must respond to what we are asked to answer for our resignation. I think that's the way we debate it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u410	Look, everyone's right, but we have to find it. [[Noise in the Chamber]] The SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative has asked for the floor, the Minister has asked for the floor. What's the show? The order is based on the Rules of Procedure. But in any case, I give you the floor. We'll put them in a row.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u411	Mr. President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u412	Mrs. Vaki, after Mr. Theocharopoulos you will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u413	I would like now, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u414	You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u415	The President of Parliament answered. However, we have heard - and I have heard it with sadness - an arson speech by my colleague, Mr New Democracy, and an arson speech which reminded us of a ten-year provincial court.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u416	Is that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u417	I am very sorry, Mr Javarra, for one and a half days of very fruitful and constructive debate. I would like to say one thing about 'KILLEN': it may not be a reform section for you, but all the major sectors in self-government - and the 'KIKRATS' and 'KIKRATS' - were welcome improvements. So don't rush to condemn a Priori and conceive. We are, yes, proud of such landscapes. As far as the Greek Parliament is concerned - let me say that you have been abusively successful for the President, who is an institution - the Greek Parliament is no one's shop, it is no one's porphyry. It belongs to those who have finished public schools. And the Hellenic Republic is nobody's shop. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] As far as the philosophy of the Left is concerned - because you have given us lessons on the left of philosophy - and here I will not speak as a professor of philosophy, but as a fellow Member. The Left and philosophy lessons on both Pulladza and Derida and Melanson can be spoken with your colleagues, Mr Georgiadis, Mr Voridis among others.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u418	We're what we do, not what we say.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u419	Quiet! Mr Theocharopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u420	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all what happened in the last debate in the Greek Parliament is continuing today. SYRIZA and New Democracy are creating a state of divisive, polaristic, unlike the current needs of Greek society. Mr. Skourletis, Mr. Javarra, this is not a dialogue. You may have a problem with regard to political arguments, but that cannot be the case. He's gone away now. We cannot discuss the essentials and you are talking about a logic that goes beyond the circumstances. So let's go to the specifics, because some time ago the Minister of Government, Mr. Vernardakis, called us, a well-known electorate - I do not know whether it was his suggestion to the government to hold a quadruple election in May and Mr. Tsipras, Mr. Skourletis, accepted it - and told us to clarify our positions, because it will prove who is the tail of the hard right. And the co-pilot of Mr. Kammenos said so, the wing who voted for Vice-President of the House, Mr. Dimitris Kammenos, you who co-govern with homophobic, racist positions. In fact, the President of Parliament a moment ago forgot that we have a government in these years SYRIZA - Independent Greeks, government for the first time left and again government for the first time left. I guess he didn't see anyone, because you've made them all Ministers, so I guess that's why he's forgotten. Let us tell you, however, that with the hard right, for all that Mr Voutsis described and which is happening and what is creating a nationalist background to Greek society, your co-pilot also has the responsibility today. It's not too much of a responsibility. It is not outside the Greek Parliament beyond the organisations which are accused of being criminal. In this nationalist background you tried every way before 2015 to give him flesh and bone in another form. The wave of nationalistism at that time was antimonist, now has another form. I'll come to that. We in the committees today - and Mrs Christophilopoulou told you to do so - have a firm stand and we support and vote for the division of Second Athens. Your Ministers have mentioned all these issues in advance. I guess you're confused. You refer to the New Democracy, which changed its position these four days and the committees that said that it would not vote today, and that is why you are voting and that regulation will apply from these elections. We, then, for keeping this attitude in relation to the partition of 2nd Athens tell you that at the same time you cannot continue to legislate fragmentally. You bring the simple analogy. It's been a while, bring the partition. It's been a while, you'll bring, you say, the vote of Greek voters abroad. But what is the vote on the election system? What is it? You break it as it suits you every time? Look. It can't be done like this. There's no seriousness and responsibility. Mr. Skourletis, your government has been exposed and you have been personally exposed. I gave it to you, I gave it to the Minutes - I don't know if you'd heard of it before - what I said a year ago. This is where I have to tell you. I said that Mr. Tsipras will be emptying you last night, last night he will expose you, in relation to what you said you will be holding the elections to disconnect the self-government from the European elections. Hey, you're cleared last night! That is not the case with one another at the same time today. You have been exposed as a government, you bring an amendment and you are essentially working on self-government and politics, all based on micro-party targets. Let's go a little on the analogy, because you've caused us to do what we've asked for. Firstly, we do not ask for things to remain the same. We want there to be a change, and that is why we have said we need a more proportional system in self-government and the Change Movement has made this clear. We have heard you say on this matter, of course, that you have had a thorough dialogue and consultation with all operators. Then why do they all disagree? It can't be. There's got to be some reason. Either they don't understand you or something you're not transferring properly. They are here the dear districts in critical regions of the country. It can't be. Something's gonna happen. Something will happen so that no one can agree with you. You know what? And most people in the progressive block disagree with you. It can't be. And they don't understand the benefits? Can I tell you what you're doing? You report - Mrs Gennamas told you today - the simple analogue. First, Mr Skourletis, because you know well, it would not mean that the mayor and the district mayor should be elected in the second round. It would mean that it should be done by the first, as is the case in more proportional systems in the European Union, regardless of whether they have a wall or not. You tell us, have you solved it with the Annells the theme of the plaque?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u421	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u422	All right, you got your co-pilot's consent. This is an important element, because you can move to the end, in relation to Mr Kammenos's wishes. You do them all at a time and, therefore, you can move on as a government. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I come back, but what does that mean simply proportional? Programming convergences means. It means that if the first 30 percent is taken, the second 25%, there is possibly proportionality in the councils, there is proportionality in the mayors and in the district managers, and so there may be programmatic convergences the next day. There, again, many may disagree or agree. But that is simply proportional. What are you doing? Depending on one and the other, the mayor should go out with more than 51% and then not be able to exercise command, because he will be locked in by councils. This system only you have invented it. And you know what? Greece cannot continue to be a special case. That's it. Greece will become a modern European country, rule of law. It will not remain a special case, and we tell you that the Change Movement will take care of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u423	Two Members will now speak, Vice-President Lambroulis and Mr Aygeakis, then - one hour later - the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development Mr Haritsis, and we will continue with MPs again.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u424	Thank you, Mr President. The institutional administrative interventions promoted by the Government by this draft law are not only a follow-up to the previous restructurings in local administration, with the "KAPOSTITRIA", "KARIKARAT" and so on, but mainly a deepening of the reactionary to the people of local government's adaptations as the arm of the urban state, in order to fully meet the needs of capitalist recovery and development. In order to achieve this objective, local administration has been exploited and exploited, with the help of the elected representatives, that is to say, its ability and its flexibility, so that at local level the central political choices of the executive state, the state - headquarters - have been unreservedly promoted, both in the service of the competitiveness of business groups and, above all, through the possibility of direct local administration in manipulating and integrating popular discontent from anti-grass policy. This objective is called on the local administration, according to the Prime Minister, to play, that is to say, the contribution, as was said two to three days ago, to the recovery of capital and to the unprecedented productive reconstruction, through the necessary adjustments and the formation of self-government schemes at local level. Just this more reactionary, anti-grassroots objective is trying to hide conscious government, but also the other parties, unorthodoxly opposed to the question of changing the electoral law, hiding the real aim of this so-called reform, since they agree, they are strategically involved in the role of the local administration, namely, the strengthening of the process of decoupling the funding of the municipalities by the state, while inversely returnability and entrepreneurship are shown to main sources of revenue. Moreover, the data show not only the continuation, but also the intensity of the anti-popular policy carried out in the local administration, with the main characteristics of sub-financing, the decline in social infrastructure, the privatisation of services and projects, the overtaxation of workers, citizens, the replacement of fixed work with flexible working relationships. This role in the exercise of the anti-popular policy of the local administration, as an integral part of the state mechanism, means in practice the burden on local households by overtaxation, increased recompense, privatisation in a wide range of services needed by the people's family and for which it has even paid through direct and indirect taxation, such as cleanliness, water services, children's stations, sport, culture and so on. In fact, local government in the name of tackling unemployment has not taken the lead in opening up the road to violate workers' employment and insurance rights for decades and continues? Through the local administration, did the road not open to commercialisation of cultural, sport services in the municipalities, cleanliness services for children's stations? At the same time as the shortcomings in public health and hospital health shortages are increasing, as trade and privatization of health and welfare are progressing, the more State responsibility for providing health services is limited, the more the municipalities are involved in providing fragmented, limited and degraded benefits. Does the local administration not have to play an even more decisive role in the implementation of restructuring with a view to strengthening the privatisation of education, that is to say, of the class modulation of schools? It turns out in practice now - and the people have had enough experience to draw conclusions on the ideas of self-sufficiency, autonomy, proximity, subsidiarity, efficiency, decentralisation and others that have been written and heard and heard in this Chamber on the occasion of the debate on the bill - that, as they are called, they did not bring growth to the benefit of the people, they did not find regional imbalances and much more the concentration of wealth in a few hands, of course, the majority. In order to ensure the uninterrupted application of anti-population policy through the local administration, a number of control mechanisms such as compliance control, continuous upgrading of the effectiveness of state supervision, and even the threat of dismantling any or any of the officials who do not comply with government decisions shall be legislated and activated. And, for example, it is struggling to satisfy the people's needs and rights of workers, the people, the citizens and others. That is why there must be no illusions about the nature and role of the local administration, about what both the government and the other political forces hold on to. The mission, the character, the evolution of the local administration itself does not change unless the state itself does change if power does not change. In today's context, it cannot be reformed in a progressive democratic direction because satisfying modern popular needs requires the replacement of the institution of the local administration with new institutions of local authority really folk within the context of popular power. This can be done, as long as the people decide.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u425	Thank you. The Minister has the floor, Mr Skourletis, for legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u426	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, the amendment with a general number of 1695 and a special number of 84, which has been shared, is accepted. At the same time, I would like to table a legislative improvement for Article 213. I'm filing it in the Minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u427	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that Members from the PASOK Group - PIMMAR - have requested a roll-call vote on the principle and on Articles 6, 16, 17, 28, 45, 46, 52, 56, 69, 73, 76, 189, 190 and on Amendment No 1682 and a special 71 to the bill. We shall now proceed with the Member of the New Democracy, Mr Augarian. Mr. Ignace, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u428	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the draft law that you have brought about the change of 'Kallikarat', about change in the institutional framework of local government. For a long time you have been building theories, you have advertised your grand plan for radical changes in local government. It followed a long period of euphemism, that is to say, consultation. In this consultation, which you were supposed to have done, all the institutions were opposed to the changes you have proposed. The Union of Regions, Mr Agathastos, condemned the bill and rejected it almost all of the regional authorities. The Central Association of Municipalities, Mr. Patoulis and the entire council and all the mayors described it as a "project abortion" that puts a noose in self-government. The same criticism and problems of your bill were presented to both joint RED and CEDEFOP conferences for the first time. A similar criticism from a large number of bodies directly or indirectly involved with self-government, unlike what Mr Voutsis said earlier as long ago as Minister for the Interior. You needed help, the truth being said. No proposal has been taken into account, no criticism has been problematic for you. You brought the bill without any substantial changes. This is because you do not care about strengthening self-government, you only care about self-government work in order to obtain micro-partnerial benefits. This is why the multi-advertised reform essentially involves two fundamental changes. First, the introduction of simple proportional and second, the change in the timing of the elections, initially in October 2019. And as soon as the bill comes to plenary, sixteen Members of your Parliament, famously presidential Members of the SYRIZA, empty you, Mr Minister, they are asking for changes to your great reform, which you had been very strongly advertised - the issue is that you had not predicted such a development and you had also given dozens of ads, dozens of interviews - and they are tabling an amendment calling for a change in the timing of the local elections, that is to say, they change half your bill and ask for their timely harmony with the European elections in March 2019. At the same time, your government partner, Mr. Kammenos, sets terms and asterisks and serves in a hypocritical - well known to everyone here - dissent, my heartfelt words about 'CLISTEN'. It doesn't surprise us. It seems to consolidate his tactics, disagrees with government policies, but simply at the end of the day he always supports them. Minister, your Government shows administrative insufficiency both you and political cynicism and you choose the field of local government for party tactics. After three and a half years in power, of all the important issues that concern self-government, you chose to deal only with the system of governance. This is what you consider to be a major one for your political survival and is now certain. According to your statements, Minister, the wide-ranging reform of the 'CALICRATI' you have advertised will take place in three parts: firstly, today we are discussing the change of the system of governance and elections, secondly, the regional planning in the autumn and, thirdly, the responsibilities after the change of constitution, as you said. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you have no right to work and deceive the institutions. You don't have the right to mock citizens. You do not have the right to bets, cynicism, but also uncovered methods to "cannibalize" the institutions, to earn just a little time of power. You have no right to sacrifice all this on the altar of the policy of defeat that comes and you see it. We are now aware of your ideas - as much as Mr Voutsis is trying to engrave them, they do not change your courage, your cynicism and, of course, everything that follows you. The constitutional authorities, our parliamentary democracy and the principles of the rule of law do not allow you to do so. You will not be allowed by the citizens when they are invited to come to the polls. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I will stand by two basic reforms that you bring. Firstly, the time of the self-government elections and the time of the term of office of the self-government. KALIKARATIS shall adopt the five-year term of office and harmonisation of the self-government elections with the European elections. This choice has had a very important argument: budgetary savings. You said, Minister, that elections should not be held together with the European elections - you said it dozens of times - because self-government is being altered, as you said. Of course, at least sixteen Members of your party, presidential, had another view. In the end, they convinced you. It seems that you are not so stable in your views, Mr Skourletis, which, of course, with a lot of ease, you are changing or force you to change your mind, Minister, within hours. So the question is: did you know, before they tabled the amendment, or did you learn it from the media? You never told us and you're never gonna tell us, I guess. Your sixteen colleagues at first asked, in their amendment, for the second cycle of the self-government elections to coincide with the European elections. Then again, they changed their minds and, of course, changed their minds. Your inability, admittedly, has no limits. You are being machined and legislated, but your inadequacy is exposing you personally as a government, as well as as as MPs SYRIZA - ANEL. In any case, the alteration of the status of the self-government elections applies to an exaggerated degree if you try to hold them along with the national elections. However, everything shows that the national elections are scheduled for this date. This is an absolute tool for the institutions, the absolute salt, the absolute impunity, the absolute fall. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President, still. Insert the simple analogue. In this way, Minister, you seek chaos, but above all the weakening of local government. The position of the New Democracy, our prolongation, around the issue of electoral law in local government is clear and reflects the vast majority of those involved in government. The simple analogue is certain to lead municipalities and regions to insolventity and, of course, to the credibility of self-government. It is clear that you wish to change the connections to self-government in order to cause chaos. This is also the result of the articles that provide for the transfer - if possible! - advisors from a combination, incorporation of combinations or even the combination, which will cause chaos, will make the mayor and the regional chariot in local interests and is exposed to populism. The management of the OTAs will become extremely difficult and it is not clear what will happen when the collective bodies of the self-government cannot take decisions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the government, by closing, you have been terrified by your demographic fall. You think with these terrain you'll limit your defeat. You do not hesitate to escalate or systematically undermine the institutions. With small institutions, however, it is not possible to do great things. Unfortunately, what you are interested in are institutions and respect for them. It is only your political survival that concerns you and that seems daily. But our democracy has no dead ends. It gives solutions and the people will give the answer very soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u429	Thank you, too. The Deputy Minister of Economy and Development, Mr. Haritsis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u430	Thank you, Mr President. There is a great deal of tension in Parliament these days. It is clear that a very important progressive reform, such as the 'CLINEN I', is disrupting the balance of decades, unsettling established interests and, therefore, a certain degree of tension is justified. Because in fact the bill we are debating these days, ladies and gentlemen, is a great progressive intersection for local government. It strengthens decentralisation, significantly increases the capacity of local authorities to solve their problems and facilitate their operation. Most importantly, however, it extends democracy and the participation of citizens in the commons of their local communities, in the commons of local societies. The simple analogue introduced by the law is a democratic revolution for local government, as it creates the preconditions for truly representative institutions - both locally and regionally - it ensures that these institutions have essential competences and, above all, favours programmatic shocks and compositions, creating a culture of partnership, which is necessary to solve the very important problems facing local communities today. Important interventions, however, are not limited to a mere analogy. The bill also includes a number of other regulations, which are very important, as they enhance representativeness, democratic expression and the participation of citizens, but also control structures, while facilitating the day-to-day functioning of OTAs. I am emphatic about some of them: strengthening the functioning of the communities by transferring competences and resources to the communities. Establishment of the possibility of assemblies per district or a parish in communities of more than two thousand inhabitants. The activation, at last, of the institution of the referendums, which extends to the region, a measure which also encourages the participation of citizens in common and broadens dialogue in society, as well as co-responsibility in decision-making. All this is extremely important and very important. But let me refer to this brief position on an issue that has not been sufficiently discussed. This is the funding of local authorities. I am referring to the financing issues mainly to the first degree, to the municipalities, as indeed the landscape that has been formed in self-government in previous years creates a significant imbalance between the two degrees, the first and the second degrees of selfgovernment. So, as a government, we have done a very great deal of effort in the past three years, under very difficult budgetary conditions, as it is known that with the previous misdesigned reforms, in our view, the municipalities have indeed incurred considerable increased responsibilities, but have not been strengthened by the necessary resources and staff to carry them out. This crisis has been dramatically exacerbated during the austerity period, it has further reduced the funding and revenue of the municipalities, while the reduction of staff and the absence of new recruitments has led local authorities to the limits of their resistance. Our government has therefore moved decisively towards strengthening the municipalities, both by energising the funds available to us and by finding new ones. I am referring, for example, to the new NSRP 2014-2020 programmes. We have proceeded with the implementation of important programmes for critical local infrastructure projects throughout the country - water supply, sewerage, waste management, solid waste, waste water, tourist and cultural reserves - and also public works programmes, which enable municipalities to be supported by additional staff in critical areas of their work. Of course, in that direction, we also increased the resources of the National Public Investment Programme. I would remind you that the National Public Investment Programme was found at EUR 700 million in 2015 and today it is at EUR 1.3 billion, with a view to the year reaching one and a half million. The majority of these resources are directed to the authorities. Furthermore, the Ministry of Interior recently launched the implementation of the 'Philodimos' programmes, with great success, which finance OTAs - without any burden on local authorities - with EUR 500 million initially and with a view to reaching EUR 2 billion over a period of five years. At the same time, targeted interventions are being made, such as the special development programmes for the islands of the North and South Aegean, and the funding of very important reforms, such as the transport equivalent in the islands. There is therefore support for islands in practice through these financial resources. Overall, for the first degree of self-government, these three years have already been committed and directed through programmes with exclusive beneficiaries of municipalities more than 4 billion euros from all of these financial sources. This is money, which the 1st degree of local government had never seen from such programmes. In fact, this is done, not with the logic, which has prevailed for decades in the past on customer terms, nor, of course, with the flat-rate provision of aid to the municipalities. We remember the famous 50 euros in each municipality, just so the local authorities don't whine. This is done with a plan, with integrated programmes, with clear evaluation criteria common to all. In this way, very important projects are being carried out, but also local entrepreneurship support measures, which should have been implemented for decades. Because, of course, in our view, the national development effort, if it does not emphasise the local and regional level, cannot be effective. This effort bears fruit. It is no coincidence that in all the regional development conferences, which we have organised in the last few months and in the thirteen regions of the country, the vast majority of the self-government bodies, their representatives, regardless - I would say - recognised all the efforts made by the relevant ministries. But the money alone is not enough. We also need the institutional armouration of local authorities. The interventions of "Classified I" in this direction are very important as the process of drafting the OTA budget is being upgraded and made more participatory, a four-year operational programme that strengthens the medium-term planning of the municipalities is being drawn up, stops the logic of the fragmented screening projects that have dominated the municipalities in the past decades, while at the same time the role of actors such as TIO and EBRD is being upgraded to enable municipalities with personal and know-how to be able to assist in the implementation of the necessary projects. This is a very crucial issue, the issue of subsistence of municipalities, especially in qualified technical and scientific staff. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] Here, all the political forces must be placed. Do they agree with the request by the representatives of self-government - regardless of party position, that is a request that runs across the entire area of self-government - of the need for recruitment of qualified personnel to meet the requirements of all these financial opportunities currently in existence? Or are they in line with the logic, which prevail - we have heard them from the Chief of Police Vice-Population - for a reasonable reduction in costs, so in addition to redundancies in the OTAs too?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u431	Minister, you must finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u432	I'll be out in a minute, Mr. President. The Observatory, which strengthens the economic self-sufficiency of the municipalities, is also transformed, not in repressive terms, as has been done so far. In addition, interventions had been made by the Ministry of the Interior in the previous period. CLIMATE I is therefore coming to complete this phase of important institutional interventions, which enable and facilitate local authorities to make use of all financial opportunities. CLINICAL I, therefore, is coming, and it has guaranteed and upgraded the entire effort of the last three years. Ladies and gentlemen - and I shall end with this - for us in the SYRIZA, in the government, in the left, decentralisation, democracy and popular participation are identifiable and continuously called upon. The mere analogy is a time-consuming request, which we are doing today with 'CLISTED I'. What we can commit to, and what we can promise, the National Representation and the Greek people - which is why I also spoke about my position two - three times for 'CLOSHEN I' - is that other legislations will follow, 'CLITHENIS II' and 'CLITHENIS III', so that the image of local government in our country will change radically and finally play the role that it plays for social cohesion and regional development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u433	Thank you, Minister. Mr Constantine Dozenas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u434	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to begin with a reference to Mr Javarra, whom I generally respect as a decent parliamentary man. So Mr Javarras questioned the relationship between the Left and dignity. I must tell you, dear Mr Javarra, that every right you have - economic, social, every right against discrimination, every right to minorities - the left, the communists and the trade unions won it in the twentieth century. None of what we have conquered on your own or without the great power of the Left. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But I also respect Mr Mitsotakis, because he is educated, he is also a language teacher. And I really had a little shock when I heard him say this. I read this word to you for word: 'Tell me a country in which all residents have another ethnicity and another nationality.' He understands, in other words, that nationality is a nationality. It is what we call citizenship or say it, too, a state of civilisation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u435	You're lying.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u436	Word to word, sir. Please ask. We'll find it in the Minutes. The answer to that is that in the United States of America nationality, nationality or nationality is American, in Britain British. However, the Greeks, who are in Britain and the United States and to whom you want to vote, have a Greek nation, a Greek genus. First mistake. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The second mistake. Mr Mitsotakis said that the New Democracy does not divide, although we did not hear any complaints about threats, protests, attacks by those who closed the problem in our relations with the northern neighbours and ended the post-election situation in Greece. So let me say something from Grucho Marx, too. In his famous 'Duck Soup' work, Grucho Marx says to a lady who doesn't recognize him: 'Would you believe your eyes or what I say to you?' So we believe our eyes and what we have heard here had nothing to do with any reality. Let us now turn to philosophy and political philosophy, with which Mr Javarras has something to do with it. Let me start with a theoretical point, which I think is of interest to all of you. The debate in Parliament is based on a hypothesis that the electoral system should reflect more or less a pre-existing political reality. But, like our language, the electoral system is not a neutral tool, it is not a mirror that reflects something that exists independently and before the election process. On the contrary, electoral law intervenes, creates, shapes social, ideological or political balance. It does not reflect the electoral system as a pre-existing reality, but it creates the conditions for the exercise of democracy. And here we have heard that the great problem of Greece and Europe is rulership, a barbaric neo-colitism, and not democracy, the most beautiful Greek word, which suffers throughout Europe. Ruleability has no problem. We have Mr. Erdogan, we have Mr. Orban, monsters of rulership. However, we also have the huge democratic deficit that exists throughout Europe and which threatens all of us. So when we talk about democracy and political philosophy, today from what you know, Mr. Javara, the concept of democracy, the classical Greek concept, appears in two great philosophical theories, the theory of participatory and theory of consultation. In the participatory theory of democracy, direct democracy is the way in which we can put people back together, not to denouncing politicians. And this bill puts too many institutions of direct democracy. It is part of a great reform process that this government has started not only in local government - although it is precisely the point of our insinuation - but everywhere. I have heard Mr Venizelo be sad if there is any referendum in relation to the constitutional review. You're afraid of democracy. We are with democracy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Then we have the interparliamentary democracy, which is what it is doing? Parliamentary democracy says that elections are not just a mechanism to add votes and choose any elite. On the contrary, its main function is to cultivate the citizens' political crisis, by institutionalising meditation and reflection processes for the public. The personal interest or ideology from which we start thus enter into dialogue and through it we can end up with the concept of the common good. So the measures taken by this bill are not just the mere proportional ones, but they are local referendums with a popular initiative, they are municipal and regional consultation committees, they are the strengthening of local assemblies. In other words, we again give voice to the citizens, by cultivating a different cultural and social conscience, a conscience of participation and not of resignation, not of apathy, not of awarding and leaving politics and through this consensus that comes through the conflict of ideas it is possible to move towards the common good.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u437	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u438	Finally, I would like to table the largest research carried out by an institution in Canada on the advantages of mere analogy. I won't tell you the conclusions. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Dousina, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It's the largest research and it covers the whole world literature and it puts one - the advantages of mere analogy. Within this idea we belong, that is what we are going on, and so we will move on so that we can put democracy back in Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u439	Good, Mr. Comrade. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u440	Mr President, please, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u441	Mr. Javarra...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u442	I want to make an intervention for three minutes. I have the right. I am entitled, as a Parliamentary representative, to three-minute intervention. I haven't made any intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u443	You're right, but you know that at least...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u444	It has nothing to do with personal...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u445	I will give you the floor, just to have a sense of time, because at least 15 or 20 colleagues will not finally speak. Don't be thirty of those who won't talk. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u446	I deeply appreciate the reason and the thought of Mr. Doussina. That is why I feel obliged to answer him. Firstly, when I spoke about the relationship between the left and the dignity of the left, I did indeed refer to the Minister, and that is where he should at least understand that the word 'digitas' used it in its Roman concept, 'dignitas', that is, the attitude of respect for the post. That is exactly the dimension I wanted to highlight. As far as the communes who were kind enough to disguise us, I recognize them, I understand them. But what I want to say is that I do indeed have so much to do with the philosophy of what he has to do with the law, because at least he should not ignore or at least refuse to understand that what we are doing today is to approach the correctness or failure of this bill on the basis of the provision of Article 102 of the Constitution. This is the constitutional framework and in this constitutional context there is sufficient case-law of the Council of State, which, of course, in the context of the principle of proportionality, accepts the Supreme Court that there may be a restriction of certain rights in order to serve constitutionally legitimate purposes, such as the creation of strong and effective institutions of self-government. We are not enemies with the simple analogue, nor does the left of course have any privileged relationship with this electoral system. Not at all. If he approaches the subject historically, he will see that in January 1936 elections had been held with the simple analogue in Greece, but after a sequence of events, we arrived somewhere which I believe he does not want to remember either.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u447	Mr President, thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u448	No way! Mr. Andriane has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u449	Mr President, I have received a personal attack and I would like to respond.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u450	Dialogue is very interesting, but you can make him out, Mr. Doussina. Let colleagues speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u451	A proposal, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u452	But he's your colleague at Stepma, Mr. Dousina.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u453	Mr. Andriane allows me. A phrase, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u454	Here you go, Mr. Dousina, tell her.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u455	Legal without philosophy, i.e. without principles and values, is like a body without a soul. That is what we have heard, Mr President, and so...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u456	Mr. Javarra, I assume you'll answer as a lawman to the philosopher now and go by tomorrow! Good!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u457	Put your hands up! I surrender!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u458	Mr. Adriane, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u459	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to say a word to my dear colleague, Mr Deusina, because I consider it insulting to refer to this fact and to say, Mr President, that we fear democracy. The New Democracy, this party that restored democracy and brought about the most democratic constitution in 1975, is not afraid of democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u460	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u461	You said exactly that, Mr Colleague, and I should like to point out that on behalf of this party I have the honour of representing. In fact, as far as this line is concerned, her ideology has been vindicated and, of course, she has always been on the right side of history. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I heard the President of Parliament, Mr Voutsi, a moment ago, before he came down from the Step of the House, saying, in a strong sense, about New Democracy, referring to the sceptic, that 'we are not going to come back to a political immobility'. What does he mean? We need an answer. Are we causing political mobility, when the national interest is not served, or when the conditions are not the ones in which we can promote our national interests? Indeed, this policy of mobility that you have caused in this case in the Skopje has led to the bad Ambassadors' agreement. We must learn from this and not say that political immobilisation means something. It means that there are many times because there must be no political mobility, since the environment and the conditions do not serve national interests. Ladies and gentlemen, I now come to the bill. The draft law, not only does not provide solutions to the problems of self-government, but essentially, as the CEDEFOP itself points out, if it is voted on and implemented, will lead to insolence in the municipalities and will create a chaos in local government, as it also dramatically undermines the governance of the municipalities. It is quite obvious that in three and a half years the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has not taken a single initiative to strengthen self-government and resolve the existing problems in the functioning of its institutions and structures. The reason is clearly ideological. Your logic is the big, centralized, hydrocephalic, completely party, controlled state. That is why you have not transferred any substantial competence to local government. That is why you have not put forward any measures that will lighten the eagle of bureaucracy. That is why you have not even tried to resolve the Gordian bond between the various self-government levels. That is why you have not facilitated the development and social actions of self-government, which, in particular, are of even greater importance in the crisis. It is clear that you are using self-government work, only where it can serve you: micro-political goals. The most obscure proof of this is the absolutely working way you are dealing with the date of the self-government elections. All this time, the Interior Minister had built a record for October. Objections. Finally, we have seen two parliamentary amendments - with a difference of about ten hours - to come to plenary and to correct one another, one which also shows carelessness and urgency. What you are seeking is clear. Now that you see your influence on local communities again, you want to undermine the functioning of self-government, both manipulating the date of the elections and the electoral system, which actually strengthens minority and weakens the majority. You do the same with the vote of the Greeks abroad. When we emphasise the gross injustice, that is to say, that Greeks abroad cannot vote from their homes, which is happening in almost all the developed world, you forged indifferently. The President of the New Democracy tabled the amendment tabled by all the Members of the New Democracy on this matter. If you really believe in the necessity and fair treatment of Greeks abroad to have the right to vote, to make this amendment acceptable. Partially, therefore, and hardworking are your criteria, even in matters relating to democracy and institutions, although you do not even hide it about the pretexts. So it's under the cloak of the so-called aid. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, you will also give me some time, like all my colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u462	I will give you, but respect other colleagues a little.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u463	I respect them, but I think there must be at least an equal treatment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u464	Yes, but other colleagues need to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u465	Thank you. So you are aware, of course, that this institutional change that the local communities have not asked for or supported will result in the undermining of the operation of the municipalities and the strengthening of unfair trade, in any case, of the intention that you make it even clearer with the project approval of the programme of technical works of each municipality. Knowing what will be the true force of the combinations that lie to you in the next elections for local government, you want to give the minorities the authority of the regulator. You are talking about a culture of cooperation, when you know very well that what will happen will be a lasting illusion of the type 'if you don't do this to me, I will block you to the other', which, of course, does not bode well for self-government and, of course, for local societies. But what you are really seeking is to undermine the functioning of local government and make it a voyage to the central state. This logic also means establishing local referendums without the necessary safeguards, which is absolutely certain to create deadlocks for which you do not see any way of dealing. We have no choice but to vote against this bill. Our logic for local government is in the opposite direction. We want municipalities, not weakened, but with more substantial responsibilities and the necessary resources, accountability at the most direct level of the public, in terms of decisions that have the most tangible consequences in its everyday life, with institutional armour to ensure the proper functioning of the structures of self-government, greater transparency and genuine response to the problems and demands of citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u466	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u467	I shall conclude, Mr President. We say, then, not in this bill. We say no to the fragmentary and small-party interests of the government, to intervention in matters relating to institutions and democracy. We say no to the games that we all see play on the dates of elections, national, self-government and European elections. We say no to the unacceptable and undemocratic attitude from the government of the Greeks abroad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u468	Mr Antony Syrigos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u469	I will not try to be pleasant erga omnes, but I will try not to be excessive. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a strong and unpleasant reality is the fact that communication has replaced politics. This means that the communication crescendo covers the pianissimo to which the policy is being buried. What it seems to be covering the substance. What's yelling and imagining, covers the reason. The bill under discussion raises fundamental questions in Parliament and in the parties to be answered. For example: Representability in local affairs or not? Representation as a term promoting consensus on local issues and weaning them from partyism or not? In short, just proportional to the self-government election, or to the toparchy by invoking rulership? The "no" of counter-population is far from the participatory concepts of self-government, which everyone proclaims and much more misguided ideas that by disagreement on local affairs, for example, the position of a HYTA or another major project, a mayor must cast down the respective government. In the committees it was revealed that the aim of many of the guests was not to discuss the draft law, but to confront the government. Maybe that's how it happened before. However, this cannot be a legitimate objective to facilitate the promotion of local affairs, which are the constitutional competence of local government. Second example: Dividing Athens and the Attica Region or not? The opposition did not answer the committees, it was reserved. In plenary we finally heard what he will do. That's good again. The third example: the vote of Greek voters abroad. Since 2001, the need has been found - because when it was introduced it means that the need was found, this need has not been a product in recent years - when the provision of Article 51(4) has been introduced since 2001 to date, it has not been implemented by any of the governments that have passed it and it has not felt the need to explain why. If it was so easy, why didn't he do it from 2001 to 2017? And, if it were so difficult, why did it not happen in two years' time and is it proposed to set up a committee? There again was a reservation. It seems from the last statements that some will agree with this amendment that has been made. Faced with the awkwardness of these questions and demonstrating the poverty of political proposals, communication has been supported. On the basis of an amendment of 16 SYRIZA Members - who could, since much was used by Kavafi in the first debate, also be classified as a 'focal adjustment', which has been sufficiently explained - artificial noise has risen to cover the political question. For reasons of communication, to shift the debate from the content of the draft law to an election forecast. In order not to respond to mature requests and to cover this from allegedly - government misunderstandings. Attacking and against the Minister responsible, so that his word may be invoked. "Since ", therefore, "palin Herodias", i.e. "Population, "required head", not John, but "Scure on board" and thus avoids detailed discussion and disturbing dialogue. Let us target Skourletis in order to avoid 'CLOSTHEN'. But that is not politics, it is regularity. It is simply, while remaining ecstasy against all this, that I expect to be officially informed, in the end, what will be voted on from the standpoint of the opposition, whether or not it will be taken away from its reservations. I'm not happy for the ones who came. Ladies and gentlemen, this kind of conflict does not go any further. But what, with certainty, will go ahead is "CLITHENIS", which will be a firm foundation on which all the reform efforts in the field of self-government will be salvaged from now on. The core of the planned law lies in the fact that it attempts to develop a new culture of self-government and by extension to the local communities, based on broad consensus, while laying the foundations for a creative culture of cooperation. The summing up of representativeness through the mere proportional system, which is the main cause of the anti-collection bill, is his most important qualification. And because I have heard about one more abolition today. Many are the abolitions that have been announced by the Civic Opposition so far. But the abolitions are not so important, as much as what you're going to put in the position of the one you're pulling out. That is not what we have heard and yet it is so essential. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u470	Thank you, Mr. Colleague. My colleague Mr. Fotillas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u471	Thank you, Mr President. In particular, ladies and gentlemen, once again you have overcome yourself. You've achieved something unique. You are to vote on a bill condemning it, it has been rejected, if not all, in any case by the vast majority of the interested parties. Even those, the few self-government members of the SYRIZA, even they condemned this bill. And someone, a little good-looking or naive, as you say, would wonder: Why are they insisting on bringing in a bill that no one wants? The answer is simple. Because for you the criterion is not what the people concerned want is not the good of local societies. You don't give a damn about it. The criterion is one: How will you best serve your micro-political purposes, no matter whether you are inflicting on the institution of self-government, still noting that with this bill the first to strengthen and benefit will be some extreme right and some left-wing forces. The first favored by this bill will be Golden Dawn and Ms. Konstantopoulou on the other hand. But what am I telling you now? What trouble do you have with them, since each time you have worked perfectly together, whenever you need it, and whenever you think that you were attracted to each other. All the relevant bodies have told you that this bill leads with mathematical accuracy municipalities and regions in full power. The irony of irony is that the poor had not realised that this is exactly what is being asked of you, incorporation. That is exactly what you want: since I cannot control the municipalities and regions, I will break them. It is within the logic of 'or we are ending them or ending them'. Let me give a concrete example, Minister. In the Municipality of Patras in the 2010 self-government elections the first combination took 42%, the second one took 20%. The second Sunday, the one who got 20%, took 51%. The question is how this municipality would be governed by this particular bill. The answer, of course, is very simple: it would not be governed or governed by a municipal authority which would perhaps result from suspicious transactions. Because other partnerships and other transactions under the table. You are bringing an entire bill for self-government and you are not giving a solution to either one of the many problems of self-government, such as a system to simplify public works legislation, in order to reduce bureaucracy or decentralisation or to obtain more resources and responsibilities for mayors and regionals. I know, these are fine letters for you. And one word - and I will close with that - for this ridiculous argument about the vote, this caramel by Mr Skourletis, that all this is supposed to be in order to ensure that voting is equal. So far, that is, the vote was not guaranteed. We had an anti-democratic system and Mr. Skourletis came to bring democracy to Greece in 2018. Thank you, Mr. Skourlet. So listen, Mr Skourletis, what it means to equal the vote. Equivalent to vote means the right to elect to cost the same for all voters, for all Greek citizens who are registered on the electoral lists and not to cost for someone a bus ticket and for another very expensive air ticket. Equivalent to voting, Mr Skourletis, does not mean that some who have the right to vote, who are on the lists, but do not have the opportunity to give 1 000 and 2 000 euros in order to travel to Greece, to deprive them of their legitimate right, thus substantially altering the electorate itself. Because this is the alteration of the electorate: the four hundred thousand who left the two years and you will not give them the right to vote. You're changing the electorate. So if you really are cut off at the vote rate, give the opportunity to the Greeks who left for survival purposes and who, if they travel to Greece on the day of the elections, have the right to vote, to be able to do so at their place of residence. Otherwise you have no right to speak of a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u472	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Ioannis Koutsoukos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u473	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Ladies and gentlemen of the majority and the government, I am entitled as a person, but we also have the right to judge you strictly. And we judge you strictly, because we carry on our backs the great reserve of changes in local government over the past three decades. In the 1980s, with the "good morning" undertaken by the late Giorgos Gennimatas, the Ministry of the Interior transferred two hundred and seventy responsibilities to local government and then proceeded with the formation of the district councils, which were precursors of the "KPDISTRI". We are entitled to judge you strictly, because in the 1990s we proceeded with the great reform of the "Kappostria" with the heretical prefecture of prefecture and the powerful municipalities. We are entitled to judge you strictly, because in the 2000s we moved on to the next wave of reform with 'Kalikaratis' and the noble region. You have nothing to say today. While the conditions have matured for the next step of change, reform, you are bringing in a bill - a stumbling block - in order to save you in front of your upcoming electoral record, which will be, ladies and gentlemen, analogous to what you have done over the last three and a half years. I have heard the honourable President of Parliament, Mr Voutsi, speaking in unlimited time. He obviously has the right as President, but as a representative of Mr Skourletis he does not have this right, because the decentralised Mr Skourletis from the amendment and the Prime Minister does not have the courage, neither ideological nor political, to oppose a criticism of the fact that we do not dare reform, give more powers and more resources to local government. So Mr. Voutsis said this was a radical bill. Where's radicalism? Is radicalism, ladies and gentlemen, the approach to entangle the municipalities in a policy that minority groups will take the lead in the majority? Is the approach involved, ladies and gentlemen, by creating the epitome of the intrigue, by creating anti-Major with bazaars, extortion budgets? Even for the election of mayors from the second combination, your bill allows. Is that respect for democracy, as I have previously heard your philosophers here analyzing? Mr. Voutsis told us that with these radical changes, new forces will be in place, the ones that supported social grocery stores, social care centres, support structures, feeding and living. But these powers, ladies and gentlemen, self-government has exploited and incorporated them into a policy that has been against the problems of the people at a difficult time. All you're going to do with your bill is put the extreme right-wing regulators of things into the municipalities, these powers represented mainly by the Golden Dawn and that the municipalities, regardless of the political origin of the mayors, had them on the sidelines. This will be the achievement of your policy, and this shows that you have a selective policy to prescribe these powers, thinking that you will hit the Change Movement and its political aim to lead political developments. But you're making a very big mistake. I would say that if you were to give up responsibility, transferring resources, you would have had the right to ask us to vote, because we would be consistent with what we have done over the past few decades. You're getting drunk in a process where you'll keep the mayor hostages, which will lead to insolence. If we go to three polls, you'll try to hide through the alalum and beg the existing mayors, the ones Mr. Tsipras called "damaging mayors", to put you in the ballots to wait, because you could not the last time you were up to record a fragile presence. If we go to five polls, namely national elections and European elections, you will try to save yourself through the confusion. In both cases you will not avoid the outcry of the people anyway. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would say that at the time we are living, a government that says it is progressive, should have taken advantage of this time, not to think about how to get involved in the next elections from the outcry, but how to move forward with these major changes and reforms. And here you've made a big hole in the water. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Gennimata has tabled our proposals in detail on how we can go to a strong, reformed administration and to a powerful self-government. We are bound by this, as in the last few decades we have pushed forward with major changes. In the new phase that comes, we are absolutely certain that the Change Movement will have a decisive role in developments and we will promote these changes. Then we will see you and the New Democracy, who found it easy opponent to make this fake confrontation and that you both voted against all major changes, what position you will take. Because confronting New Democracy as a "progress" and "maintenance" is a falsified confrontation, as when we progressed the major changes, the ones that created major changes in government, the ones that today recognize the whole of government, the ones that have conquered self-government, and which are mainly part of our prolongation, you were across the street. You were across the street because, firstly, your definition is narrow - ideologically and politically - and, secondly, there is always a great deal of feasibility in your actions, as is the case with the vote on this bill. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u474	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, let us come to an agreement. The vote will take place at 22.00 p.m. This is a unanimous decision of the Conference of Presidents. The vote will take place at 8 p.m. So at 21:40 I will give the floor to the Minister to close the procedures for our meeting. I think there's no special speaker left who hasn't agreed. There will be no secondments from the special speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u475	To speak more, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u476	Obviously for that. And that is what I wanted to say, Mr Voridis, that for every minute that a colleague has left the five minutes, he is limiting the possibility for another colleague to speak. Because there will be a number of colleagues who won't talk. It is good not to expand that number.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u477	Mr President, how many more people can speak and how many will not speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u478	Mr. Kutsuko, the Minister asked for the floor. Shouldn't I give him the reason? I shall therefore give the floor to the Minister for five minutes, and I hope that the five-minute period will not be broken. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u479	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, self-government is a very important and crucial issue for our country. It is part of the history of Greece, I would say more history than the modern Greek state. Self-government has supported Greek society. It is the cell and the core of democracy and certainly a great element of progress and reforms, particularly characteristic of European communities and societies, a European acquis. It is the essence of local affairs and obviously beyond that it also has a political character to produce politics, standards, perceptions, credibility of the political system. Indeed, self-government stood up to the crisis. Mr Mitsotakis said so before. However, he stood up to the crisis against Mr Mitsotakis' intentions and pursuits. Because Mr. Mitsotakis as Minister then fired the municipal policemen, dismantled the school guards, cut down the budgets of the municipalities, as the entire Samara - Venizelos government did at that time. If he understood it correctly, he also imposed feasibility checks, because I don't know if he finally understood what was going on in his ministry. However, the great debate that is taking place today is taking place on the electoral system. The electoral system has monopolized the debate. Is there a matter? Mr Vorides, the rapporteur of the New Democracy, admitted it. He said there was a matter of representativeness, so it was an essential issue. Let us see what the New Democracy has done so far for the problem of representativeness that Mr Vorides accepted to exist. Nothing! What did self-government do about the problem of representativeness? Where are the CEDEFOP proposals on the problem of representativeness? Nothing! Were they just ignorant or were they comfortable? Where is respect for local self-government from all of us, from the Greek Parliament, for the issue of the electoral system? We have therefore tabled a proposal for simple analogues. What else, then, could we suggest? After all, did we not do the same for the parliamentary elections, honestly and publicly, as was our programme? This must also be self-government: representative, transparent, open and pluralist. Is there a question of prudence? So in Europe where there is just proportional representation in parliaments, is there a problem of governance? In Europe where self-government is simply proportional, is there a question of governance? Oh, no. On the other hand, opposition today prefers by invoking, without proof, a weak rulership to violate representativeness. In other words, it would prefer that the basic democratic principle be violated under the assumption of a risk that exists nowhere in Europe. Nice democracy! This is your view of democracy and of the European, European, non-governmental organisations. But how will the municipality be governed before Mr. Fotillas asked himself? It's simple. The municipality will rule as its citizens want. Is that not what you understand is happening in Greece anymore? That there will not be anything you agree on in Greece, behind closed doors with canalarchs, but whatever the citizens want. This will also be done in self-government. He also wondered whether the Republic was radicalism. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, democracy today in Europe, in the climax of the Right, is a matter of radicalism, it is the essence of enlightenment. It is the radical enlightenment, which you have to understand at some point too, because it is not possible for a party that wants to belong to the Socialist International and with social leaders to say that the analogy is intrigue. It's impossible. You have not put it in that logic. Change it quickly. But what are they telling us? They say that analogy strengthens the complexity to hide that the status quo, created up to now in self-government, strengthened the involvement in the creation of cards in exchange for posts, appointments and awards of contracts. They say that the simple analogue, if you like, questions strong governance to hide that the mayoral system creates local interests, which it reproduces, which only a strong municipal council can collide with. They say that we are not listening to the mayors, because we do not want to hear the citizens, because the citizens voted in the elections for the simple analogue. And it is interesting that 7% and 10% should not have representation and 25% and 30% should take 60% of consultants. And Mr. Voridis is in charge of post-consultation because we want to defend the small shapes. But that's what we are. We also defend the last Greek citizen, something that bipartisanism never used to do. We don't want to take care of our people. You're worried your people aren't taken care of. We want citizens to be expressed and we do not want the status quo to be reproduced. Obviously we want the European acquis in both self-government and citizens to vote at the same time, with the same effectiveness as everyone else. Mr Georgiadis and Mr Mitsotakis said so clearly: they do not want everyone to be expressed in municipal councils in the House. They want there to be cutters and people who want to be expressed differently. We are politically honest, we all want to express ourselves. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] But Mr Vorides said, in his suggestion, and I must answer, that before the government, he never attacked the media and the press so strongly as to pass on her opinion. So I'll tell you a number. I was thinking of asking if you know what '1,2' means, but I was afraid that you would not get involved with the criminal prosecution that Mr. Psomadis was prosecuting who, if I'm not mistaken, still belongs to your party and did not take a stand, because this criminal prosecution is a matter of self-government. However, ‘1,2’, dear Members of Parliament, are the billions that you have given to the media in order to test the information during your administration. The Committee of Inquiry found that you gave 1.27 billion - and they had not been paid in 2015 - to the media, to guide the information and, if you like, to correct the information to the citizen. And now, while the media has never been ridiculed and purchased by your own governments, now that all of this is shown up, you say that we are attacking the media, and we really have installed an licensing system that for the first time applies to the channels and hurts you this too. Of course, you are also using the other lie about the vote of relatives. You say we ban participation in children's decision-making, for Brain Drain. We are being blamed by those responsible for the fact that the young people of Greece have gone abroad to find jobs, by those who banned participation in the life of our country, by the work of these children, because we have not yet found a solution to the issue of their participation in the elections. Do you know why it's hypocritical? Because they didn't find a solution for the years they were government. And it is also hypocritical why they have not solved essential issues such as: in what constituency, with what list, in which context with constitutional harmony? Not to put on all the other hypocritical issues they put in. Mr. Javarras, however, said in his morning position that we have a habit and practice to accumulate outstandingities and problems. Let me remind him of something. You obviously mean something like the rubbish of Elijah, for twenty years, Mr Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u480	What about me?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u481	Why did you have the responsibility of this state for twenty years, but the people of Elijah in 2015 could not get into their homes from the rubbish that was in the streets.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u482	Don't do that!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u483	And these problems that we have recently created are that we have licensed the landfill, licensed and financed the transitional solution, negotiated the PPP at 50% of the cost for the citizen, incorporated this project into the PRF, and solved the problem in your place, Mr Javarra, which you were unable to solve.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u484	Minister, please finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u485	I shall conclude, Mr President. Because what we inherited was - the problems we have not solved - 80 000,000 fines for land and waste water and for three hundred CIDs that we received, now there are only fifty, all of which will be included in the 'PHILDOM' this year. And indeed a great deal of looseness that solves this bill is the lack of solid waste, because we will now have powers for the municipalities for green points, composting, transhipment that they have not had so far to be the cells of the circular economy, powerful VETA with democratic functions with an exclusive role in primary self-government. They hadn't made that clear either. Local waste plans are now enshrined in this law, regulations on islands, so that the islands can exist and function and, of course, discussions can finally take place on municipal councils on recycling and pricing policy, so that the organics can also be sorted out in 2018, as we took the big initiative on plastic bags.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u486	Please, Minister, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u487	These are the proposals that go through in this bill, yet another great reform, which you see does not raise problems, but solves problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u488	Mr Stergios Giannakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u489	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, today we are called upon to vote on a bill which is much anticipated, since it has already been in advance for about two and a half years. And it comes just before the House stops its work as a plenary. Why this delay? In order to avoid, of course, the time needed to discuss in detail and to highlight the details of this important bill. It is more than clear that you do not want to highlight the fact that all you are trying with this bill is electoral cooking by adopting the supposedly simple analogy, without confronting any of the major problems that exist in local government anyway. You don't touch the substance. There is no provision for dealing with bureaucracy, pluralism, confusion of competences, lack of resources, distortion of control, lack of staff. Instead of the pre-requisite reform, local government is led to deregulation, dismantling, government, chaos and legalising the transaction. But it is not the first time that this practice has been adopted. Three and a half years now you have left no institution standing. Whatever you do not control, remove it immediately and cancel. Intended to the chariot of civil wickedness, you insist on your ideological obsessions and preconceived decisions of the interpretation of society, the interpretation of the relevant bodies with the vertical reaction of the workers to local government, the refusal of the CEDE and the Greek Committee of Regions. You don't care about the armouring of local government at all. You only care about empowering your electorate possibly, and from there on, a fire is mixing. However, you are once again mocking people with the mere analogy. Tell the world that the simple analogue is only valid for the election of municipal councillors on Sundays and Sundays on Sundays, we go to the absolute majority system for the election of the mayor. And if there's any discrepancy between mayor or advisor and advisor, then what happens in this case? Of course, the citizens will pay it, since nothing will work, the garbage will not be gathered, technical works will not be done. There will be paralysis and administrative chaos, functional degradation and strengthening of phenomena of populism and transaction. You are making governance weak within municipal and regional councils. You make the mayor and the district manager weak and therefore exposed to local or supranational interests. Local government has only one mission, according to the Constitution: the principle of effectiveness. And that's the constitutional principle you're canceling with this bill. We, ladies and gentlemen, not only are we going to vote on this bill, but we are committed that our government, the New Democracy government, will change this law, in the hope that it will never be implemented. Because we want self-government and self-government, which will give answers to the real problems of the citizens and which will regain the thread of relations with the society of the city and the region. We want self-government that reflects the will of the local people and will not be patronised by party, governmental and voluntary. I conclude with two words for the vote of the Greeks abroad. I can understand why you do not want to give them the right to vote. Because you know they're not going to vote on you. In recent years and from my prevezis prefecture, young, mostly qualified scientists have left for the countries of the European Union. So these people don't want yours Greece. They want a Greece that looks like the countries that today live like people, according to their qualifications. That is the only reason why you devise various terminology, make committees and send to the bells the opportunity to vote, express and influence the fate of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u490	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Constantine Spartan has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u491	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, when all the actors in local government consider that the time has come to revise, more or less, the 'Kalikratis', the New Democracy and the Opposition are turning the debate into another blind opposition project, which hopefully will achieve the fatal collapse of the government, which has not long been saying to come. Everyone, however, who is genuinely involved with self-government and is not charged with party sailing, feels that the opportunity should not be lost and openly support many arrangements of the draft law, regardless of their opinion on the electoral system, such as the categorisation of the municipalities, the funding criteria, the abolition of suffocating feasibility control, participatory processes, the strengthening of the development dimension of self-government, the provisions on FITIS and much more. They also talk in a very positive way about the emergency financing by the Ministry, to meet many demands without being asked for consideration, for the "PHILIDIS I" and "PHILIDIS II" programmes, for the arrangements for the JHA, for the recruitment of eight thousand permanent staff in cleaning, which is of course only annoying some who had other views in this field and ruined their business. So, in the face of a new wave of theatrical anger, communally organised and politically incomprehensible once again. The New Democracy, after being tempted to anger the Macedonian, Albanian, Mr Moscovisi, out loud, and Mr Junker, in the muskets, the refugee, with the exception of Mr Erdogan at this stage, is today particularly disturbed by the mere proportionality and date of the elections. The speech by the rapporteur of the New Democracy proves that. Local government was nowhere in his speech. There was scriptriology for the national elections, a friendly theme from the time of the overwhelmed left parentheses, and of course the stated reaction, the reversal, ideological contrast with simple analogue, the expansion of democracy, the strengthening of the institutions of popular participation that could not be concealed behind market arguments on non-governability, a mess, corruption and transaction. Sometimes some colleagues are so excited by their words that forget about what the citizens are mumbling or screaming when they hear them talk, namely 'Look who's talking'. Mr Mitsotakis also forgot earlier when he referred to the young people who have left for abroad in recent years. He didn't try to ask them who kicked them out, and when in the next election these young people vote, let Mr. Mitsotakis ask them what they voted for. However, Mr Vorides' speech also had a pleasant feature, namely her perfume with extracts from Constantine Kavafis. Regardless of how they suited the rapporteur's content and mouthy court style, I was reminded of another verse of Alexandrin, that: "Supervision and drunken would have Darius". From Mr Voridis, Mr Georgiadis, we have heard about the danger involved by simply proportional representation in the councils of extreme voices. Obviously with the extreme right-wing voices they do not mean themselves, but others, who fear that the extreme right-wing turn of the New Democracy cannot move them. The right, ladies and gentlemen, fascism, racism and xenophobia are not treated with electoral systems. They are faced with the historical memory that some of you and your President want to delete or revise, with the defence of democracy without asterisks, with the end of the austerity brought about by neoliberalism. Simple analogues are not only the equivalent of popular votes and introduces the citizen more actively into his closest institution, but also the secondary organisation of the municipalities and regions. Does Mr Patoulis genuinely and genuinely express the representatives of primary government when elected through the casting of the current electoral law? And that is why he should be more modest and creative in his remarks. Creation itself of an anti-democratic, polluting electoral system and, of course, a badly-known star system, the well-golded and golden-golded President is mad at the lives of the citizens, but why some of the weapons he knew so well to handle to achieve his personal views must now hang them on the shelf.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u492	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u493	I shall conclude, Mr President, in ten seconds. Ladies and gentlemen, there is another reason to apply the simple act of analogy, that it was in our election programme, what was adopted twice by the Greek people. You once accused us of violating our programme, forgetting the commitments of the country you had imposed. Now are you blaming us why we're applying it? We welcome this challenge because it unfolds our real policies and your own real policies. From now on the game becomes clearer and you have every reason to worry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u494	Mr Ioannis Giolas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u495	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to some more specific provisions of this bill, which seem to be not so familiar, friendly and have gone unnoticed. One of these is the strengthening of the element of participation, of public participation, of the citizen, of the ordinary citizen, of the citizen. Because everyone is saying and proclaiming local self-government like the cell and the pillar of democracy, but the cell and the pillar of democracy is mentioned, it begins, it has full reference to the individual, the citizen, every citizen who can be a unit, a vote, but the integration, joint action and participation as a whole are capable of delivering multiplier results, because the active, thinking and active citizen puts his opinion and his opinion in an open and fruitful dialogue aimed at selecting the most synthetic decisions on the simples and the difficult issues that concern each community. So I have to quote some facts as briefly and briefly as possible. The genuine intervention of the people is applied to the provision of the possibility of a hundred people in the community, who can, at their written request, request and enforce the discussion of issues they choose and indicate. The exercise of this right indirectly controls phenomena of inertia or inability of the institution, while encouraging it to adopt decisions, taking seriously into account the will of the active citizens. The active involvement of ordinary citizens in Community matters, which finds a channel of intervention with the suggestion of topics to be discussed at the Councils, in other words, it also works both in time - the conviction and the need for their active participation in the annual popular assembly, where all the serious issues that concern the communities are discussed. In fact, with a new addition of the bill, assemblies in communities of over two thousand inhabitants may be held per district, parish or other suitable subdivision, now gaining a close, closer local interest. The possibility of intervention and presence of the citizens is therefore restored, instead of the annual official, celebratory gatherings, to the mayor's accounts, to which, in most cases, the logic of the self-promotion of the elected people was broadened and the intervention of ordinary citizens was nullified. Thirdly, the exodus of citizens to active participation in another body of the municipality with substantial responsibilities. I am referring to the Municipal Committee, which has the opportunity of consulting the municipal council on serious issues, such as development programmes, the municipal operational and technical programme, the content of regulatory decisions, and even the draft budget. The Consultative Committee is also extended to municipalities with a population of more than five thousand instead of the ten foreseen by KALIKRATS. Secondly, citizens who have the right to vote, as expressly stated, are not elected by a random sample from all those on electoral lists, but by a special list drawn up following the publication of an earlier invitation to register. They will therefore participate in the draw of those who are inclined to stand for selection, rewarding the willingness of those who are willing to take part. Finally, the Consultative Committee has a substantial and decisive role to play in the management of municipal things and it is also recommended to the Board of Directors that a referendum be held. And I come to a crucial point, the municipal referendums and the regional ones, an issue that this bill includes in full eighteen sets. The notice may therefore also be issued at the request of 10% of the registered voters, by a simple majority in the relevant Board. As an epilogue I would like to say a few words about the obstacles that are allegedly interfering with and neglecting the mere analogy for governance. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I shall conclude. It is well known, and especially those who have dealt with local government, that over 80% of the decisions of municipal and regional councils are voted on unanimously. A percentage for the adoption of regulatory decisions and other matters, land use, quality of life, usually arises from an expression of opinion and composition of different views, and indeed from advisers of indiscriminate origin of municipal or regional origin. Finally, in serious matters such as the budget, the technical programme, this draft law provides for an exhaustive debate so that two holistic proposals are finally put in place, with a detailed account of the individual funds and, after providing assistance and the city's secretarial support, of which one is now being voted and selected. How, then, can the TATs remain unresolved? If, of course, they mean that the mayor, who is no longer the only and undisputed ruler, is having trouble finding or choosing his associates, for example, because during the opposition he will have to subject himself to irrational or undisputed demands and transactions, the answer is: because the system of factorism, demolition, transcripts and takeover may have been a common regime beforehand, opacity and corruption, it does not mean that we must blemish it and serve it, to regard it as irreplaceable and irreplaceable. There is another transparent, right and democratic way of working together: the one being done at the forefront, with open doors, open to the people, with political positions and public commitments.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u496	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u497	I shall conclude, Mr President. These agreements are intended and sought by the citizens. In this way of governance they also choose and demand, in the end, it will also be applied, to the margins, to the politics of plausibility and corruption and to the deletion of a practice that many latedles exorcise, but they never dared to change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u498	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Mardas Dimitrios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u499	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will start with this advertising if this thing is called advertising. It is the CEDEFOP's 'advertising' - in introductory terms, of course, I do not know who took over this advertising campaign - and in the end is the position of Officer counter-population and counter-population. What's this paper about you listening to these slogans in the morning on the radio? I don't know if they got on TV. The CEDEFOP states that "they dismantle the municipalities, the state, our lives".
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u500	The golden lives.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u501	Yes, he has not written it, he writes "our lives". "KLITHENI I", writes, dissolves municipalities and local communities. It will cause insolence - 'will cause', of course - and paralysis in their day-to-day operation. It will favour corruption and transaction. And he wonders every single man: The certainty of insolence and paralysis, first of all, where does it come from? Is there a scientific study? You commissioned a university to some research institute? Is there an international experience that leads to such a conclusion? If there is one, you should have testified it so that you and the CEDEFOP would certainly support what it says. And as far as I know, there's nothing. So these are cases. I come at the end of the paragraph. It will favour, write, corruption and transaction. Where's that coming from? Or does it imply that there was no corruption and transaction in the previous period, we had virtuous heretic rulers, effective, managing the resources of the municipalities in the best way? I'll submit it to the Minutes. As a response, which is not a case, but is the result of a study of a large sample investigated, it is the answer of the Public Administration Inspector General, Mr. Rakindzis. I will not go into the reports of this time, because you will say that we are influencing them. I am referring to the 2013 report, which came out in June 2014. I come on page 8, which states exactly what follows: ‘As is shown by the elements of this report, OTAs are a “principal” space for maladministration and non-compliance with legal procedures, which lead to legality.’ These are written. All this, with the former regime, which led to where it led. ‘Their main feature is the prevalence of the will of the chief mayor, who, due to a lack of resistance on the part of the minority in most cases takes the heresy of his status’, take note of the ‘as a means of overcoming or abusive exercise of the powers under his law, under the pretext of satisfying a particular concept of local interest’. I'll testify. This is the result of the previous system and it's certain. It's not a case. And, of course, the failure of the previous system is not just a question of management, but it extends elsewhere. The ‘CARBESTRIA’, admittedly, united the state. "KALIKRATIS", however, created major problems in some areas related to regional development and the marble of many regions, as it has sometimes led to oversized municipalities. I am not going to talk about all of Greece. I shall refer to my area. We have the municipality of Lagada with forty-seven villages...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u502	And why don't you change it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u503	Don't be in a hurry. We have 'CLEARED II'. So we have the municipality of Lagada with forty-seven villages. There may also be another municipality. Nine municipalities joined two. However, another municipality, the Municipality of Sochou, for example, can be created, which has some common characteristics with regard to villages that are very close to it. And this whole story, combined with the degree of the effectiveness of the mayor or mayor, has led to a state of remuneration of the municipality's property. I'll testify to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u504	Let's write an amendment together, Mr Marda.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u505	Two minutes, don't rush. We've got one all the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u506	My colleague, I'm in a hurry as President-in-Office, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u507	I have here - and I will put it out - a document on how the municipality's property is devalued, in municipalities with a very large size, and how it is impossible to run these municipalities. It is from Vertsko, an abandoned property, which we are now trying to resurrect in self-evident ways, which means that we come in contact with the university, to exploit this property. I'm filing all this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u508	Thank you, too. Mr Vagionas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u509	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not disagree with the previous speaker, Mr Mardas, on what he said about the current situation in local government. There is a great deal of corruption in the municipalities, but not in all municipalities. Other is smaller, elsewhere it's bigger and rarely there's not at all. This does not mean, however, that I agree with you that this bill will be better. I'll try to document that it's much worse than what's there. If we were to try to improve the current situation - which is a way - we would be better. I do not know what 'CLEARED II' and 'CLEARED III' stand for. But I'll say where "CLEARED I" leads us. This is not a big reform, as the government was saying for forty months, but a change in the electoral system based on the parity of the multi-advertised voting rate, which says absolutely nothing. A colleague explained that. The problems of self-government are not solved but some "aids" are offered to SYRIZA's small party or non-existent influences in local government. I'm saying that so we can be clear. The proposed system is "loaned" some elements from a mere analogue, but that's it. There's no simple analogue in two Sundays for mayor's election. Don't be fooled. The fact is that this system will deprive the majority of the power to govern the majority. Not that it's better now. 50.5%, however, is entitled to have 60% of the government's party, so that we can have the majority truly strong. Since, therefore, the government wishes to follow European standards and have acquired them, it should decentralise powers and resources towards the first and second degrees of selfgovernment. The government is hiding behind the Constitution, so that resources and responsibilities are transferred. And take great care of that, ladies and gentlemen of the government. The responsibilities which cannot be transferred without a constitutional review are very specific. Do you agree, Mr. Lappa?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u510	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u511	It is clear, then, that the effort to concentrate competences is evident. For example, the judge of the legality of local government chosen by the Minister, what is it, Mr Lappa? Don't tell us it's completely innocent. On the contrary, preventive control of municipal spending is abolished, which self-government considers it useful and necessary. What emerges is the government's intention to serve party interests. Strong minorities will be found to be regulators of decentralised administration. Every move, every decision must go from control to control what I have said. This is not more democracy. It is the 'green light' in opaque procedures. As a law-abiding lawyer, I am fully aware of this. There is an urgent need to get away from such practices. The reform is a one-way road, and Europe, in particular Austria, a few decades ago, has shown how the Austrian system gives self-government 50% of the state budget with strict control. This is because self-government is better aware of the problems, the social issues of the region, education, health and in all areas. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a simple and inappropriate analogue, but a window to immunity. Of course there must be changes in local government. It doesn't work perfectly, as we said before. Compared to the European Union, we are very back on issues such as waste management.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u512	Mr. Colleague, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u513	Subscribing, planning of technical projects and other agitation to local government. Gentlemen of the government, instead of the famous system of your simple and inappropriate analogy to solve problems, you legalise the fraudulent and corrupt transaction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u514	Mr Constantine Pavlides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u515	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, KALIKARATIS was one of the most positive institutional self-government reform. However, it was characterized by very great dissatisfaction. Although it defined consistent local government demands, it was characterized by great dissimilarities. He maintained a strong dominance-centre system, a strong majority perception of elections and strong mono-parallel connections to management boards and municipal councils, so there are armies of willingly, deaf dialogues and hands up. At the same time, Kalikaratis had the misfortune to apply within a memorandum. You legislated. We have had 60% reduction in independent resources to local government. From 5.4 billion to 3.5 billion, almost to the limit of arrogance. If a municipality did not have the capacity and did not have sufficient capacity in its services to absorb European programmes, it was doomed to the total absence of autonomous resources to exist in large-scale policy infrastructures and applications. At the same time, there were the dismissals of Mitsotakis in the Municipal Police and the school guards. Serious services that made revenues to the municipality have been abolished, as was the municipal police. There was a suffocating framework of control, resulting in the inertia of municipal work, with a logic that was right at its base, on an island, a municipality. However, it was extended in a horizontal way, without putting particular elements of locality, such as the islands, the size of each municipality, the elements concerning the road network, infrastructure, water supply, sewerage, ports, transport and, in essence, the large islands brought a very great injustice. Since 2015, before even this reform, we have tried and targeted at particular features of small island islands and mountainous areas. The priority was to strengthen the small island municipalities, which have now come to receive twice as much financial aid. At the same time, the granting of coastal areas to local communities, the infrastructure support programmes under the "Philodimos I" and "Philodimos II" programmes, the fixed jobs by notice 3K in cleanliness, the reintegration of decontaminations into a smooth operation of the municipalities. And here comes KLITHENI I, a transitional, bold reform, which naturally goes hand in hand - and that is why there is KLITHENI II - in constitutional restrictions and, because it is implemented in an environment of limited economic resources, a more bold reform is needed in the future, when the budgetary area is more capable of giving what it wants to give. Nevertheless, it makes very deep areas: First, the mere analogue forms a truly self-government collaborative environment, without distorting the local choice, with a positive expression of the popular verdict and the protracted self-government choice. I did not understand why the need for cooperation and joint self-governmental awareness was necessarily reflected in complexities, blackmail and political counterfeiting. It is simply a need for a political culture in local self-government. If we take advantage of the self-government experience of so many years, because it is a long time for this self-government experience, we will see two phenomena: one thing was that there was a responsible municipal council to take the large majority of decisions in a unanimous manner, and where these councils did not stand up to the demands of an army of willing persons, which was simply because of the strong majority who raised a hand without real, creative dialogue. The categorisation of the municipalities is very important, but not only with population criteria, but with social, developmental criteria, with population fluctuations, with a demographic trend, with infrastructure, with spatial area, with road networks, taking into account islandity and mountainity, and, above all, is very important, with the participation of the municipality in the form of GDP, so that there is also an element of serious economic return from the central state to local communities. I would like to focus on an issue, the fact that there are some injustices in the large island towns. In my opinion, there must be a necessary spatial redesign for the municipalities that go far beyond and far beyond population dominated by the artistic size of about twenty-five thousand municipalities. I think it is a debate that we must open in the next few weeks. At the same time, this reform needs very important support from all of us. You have a great self-government experience. You have too many mayors who belong to your party who can contribute. Instead of making positive use of this great experience, you choose to turn the municipalities into a clientele and partisan mechanism. Perform to a sterile opposition. You are threatening to abolish progressive institutional reforms when you come to power. First of all, you need to know that you don't want to come to power. You must be able to. When you manage to come to power, all you threaten and blackmail, with an obsession of conservation, is "we will abolish, we will abolish, we will abolish". Instead of abolishing, apologise for all that you have caused and brought the country into bankruptcy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u516	Mrs. Nikki Kerameau has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u517	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, two are the critical factors that need to be taken into account and served in the useful electoral systems. The first factor is representativeness, i.e. the equal contribution of the vote to the result. Secondly, governance, that is to say the possibility of post-election governance. What are you guys doing here? On the altar of an absolute simple analogous you are sacrificing the ability to govern local government. As it turns out by this piece of legislation, you don't care about local government operating. You are not interested in responding to the needs of the citizens. You prefer, ladies and gentlemen, the simple and inappropriate, as you call it, analogous, which is no more than a fraudulent method of altering the vote and therefore the will of the citizens. Why? But why, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling majority, even on minor issues, each mayor and every regional mayor will be obliged to seek approval of a minority. Each mayor and every regional mayor will become a prey of interests, of minorities, thus being hampered in the performance of his or her work and eventually becoming a felony of transaction and interlocutory. We will therefore be constantly leading to the real inability to take and implement decisions. In simple terms, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANEL, you are legislating on power, which will irreparably affect the credibility of self-government. And that, of course, suits you. You are incapable of creating conditions of immunity in municipalities and regions for two main reasons: firstly, because you have not obtained as a party the results you would like to have in self-government in order to have majorities, and secondly, because as long as there is this lawlessness you must be made by a state official. Consequently, the allocation of funds and local policies will not be decided according to the local needs and in accordance with the programme of representatives chosen by the citizens, but according to the needs and wishes of the party and government. Ladies and gentlemen, the more powers you have come upon you, the better! I come to the theme of the partition of Athens Region II and the rest of Attica. I personally believe that this is a necessary move, a move to be made, for the simple reason that it will work better on our representative system. It is a proposal which has been supported over time by our President, as early as 2004, when he was a new Member. This means, ladies and gentlemen, responsible political power, that you propose the public interest, away from micro-political games and that you have the courage to support measures that are moving in the right direction. But you, on the other hand, don't do that. You are in favour of everything, your personal interest, your personal political survival. Does the question of the vote of the Greeks abroad have to be regulated? You're saying you should. So we agree. But do we agree? Because, if we agree, we should say it out loud and sit down and figure out a way to regulate it. We, ladies and gentlemen, as a New Democracy, have tabled a relevant law proposal three times, with all the relevant details, and in 2016 and earlier this year and today. It is a full proposal, with all the necessary details. But you two years have not even brought it to the House. You are so interested in this issue of supreme democracy, that is to say, allowing Greeks abroad to speak with their vote, to speak of the future of the country, a right which the vast majority of the Council of Europe has recognized! For us, for the New Democracy, gaining the right to vote by Greek residents abroad is a supreme issue of equality. What does our proposal provide for? It provides for the Greeks abroad, which are already on the lists, to vote on local consulates and embassies of our country. And in order for there to be no technical difficulty, we propose that only the Party vote - not the Members - be voted on and that their votes be added to the overall percentage of the parties on the ground. The proposal, ladies and gentlemen, is specific, is realistic and needs no more than a month and a half of preparation. So there is no technical difficulty in implementing it. Ladies and gentlemen of the ruling majority, you only have difficulty in conceiving, as a government, as you really fear that your works and days will be judged by the Greeks who left the country, seeking a better future. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen - I am closing down, Mr President - which claims to all sorts of difficulties are pretexts in sins and your sins are many and are not washed out, no matter how much institutional intervention you attempt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u518	Thank you, my colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos is the last Member to speak. Immediately after that, Mr Karathanasopoulos will be given the floor for three minutes, because he has tabled an amendment, then Mr Spirtzis for five minutes and 15 minutes, the Minister, to close at 22.05. Because at 22.05 p.m. it will go, Mr. President. We won't finish at 22:00, but at 22:05. Here, Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u519	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately you would all have heard or read that a moment ago Germany blocked the EUR 15 billion dose, and also that unfortunately Mr Tsakalots agreed to bring equivalent measures of EUR 28 billion - to legislate - and unfortunately, I say again, we are the only country in Europe that has accepted the re-entry of refugees. Ladies and gentlemen, to come to the point, SYRIZA and New Democracy are fighting for local government today. They speak of his positive and negative "KALIKARATI", invoke the parties that voted against him. And because the government's aim is not only to micro-party benefits but to material benefits and looks forward to the next day: the issue of mere proportionalness is the first aim of the Change Movement. Colleagues spoke in detail about all the issues concerning the bill. Minister, I will not be in the process of criticising you for the amendment or anything else. It takes what you say'reforms' or 'direct democracy' sometimes. Perhaps these myths are depressed by themselves. For example, with regard to the referendum, which you first used, it was the Prime Minister himself in a German newspaper that said "it was my fault".
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u520	He didn't say that, sir!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u521	The time will come when we will have to see in practice the simple analogue, but what is your goal? May I ask you, Minister: are you ready in municipal and regional elections, since you want to 'big progressive changes', to support the former ministers and current regional leaders of the Change Movement, such as Mr Arnautakis, Mr Katsifara, Mr Tsilimigra in Larissa? I wonder, in the municipality of Tripoli, where you have an 8% vote, what are you going to do?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u522	We've got the Patriot, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u523	We'll support you!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u524	We'll support you!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u525	I'm going to the well-known theme... [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Now let's go to what you're aiming at, because I heard the Minister about the mere proportionalness of the national elections. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, your objective is very simple. You think it's gonna happen and you haven't asked the hotel owner. You are asking us to vote on the simple analogue. In fact, you tell us that, if we do not vote, we will be 'New Democracy'. Isn't that right, Mr. Flambury? So what's your plan? You don't say it, but you want it too much. The willing person, who loves his country, as he did in the difficult phase - that is what you actually wish - to cooperate after the elections with the first party, which will be New Democracy. I would like to reply very sincerely: do not expect us to cooperate. Prepare for the serious right-wing government of New Democracy - SYRIZA. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u526	Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u527	Ladies and gentlemen, don't you want us to get this done smoothly? You started talking? The President of Parliament has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u528	I have taken the floor for half a minute to clarify something. Mr. Constantinople, you said a story in the House. And it is important to clarify things. Germany has threatened to veto for 15 billion, the last dose, if they are not recorded equivalent to 28 million for the islands' VAT. That's what this is about. It was neither blocked nor there was anything else. I would like it to be clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u529	The clarification has been made. This is not about this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u530	The President of Parliament is a parliamentary representative?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u531	Mr. Constantinople, please. Mr Karathanassopoulos, you have the floor for three minutes for your amendment, but respect it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u532	I shall be briefer, Mr President, than three minutes, because we will not deal with the more general provisions of the bill. After all, we agree with the statement made by the President of Parliament that there is a broad agreement at 90% on what the bill provides for. In other words, there is agreement in the basic and essentially negatively affecting the lives of the people's family: in return, in entrepreneurship, in public-private partnerships, in concessions, in privatizations, in divestment of municipal property. There's a deal. That is why we have also followed this sketch in order to cover up the agreement. You will remember, Minister, that I had asked you, when the debate was opened, how many amendments you will be taking. You said you didn't know. Of course, we have a flood of amendments that you have accepted, ten ministerial and twelve parliamentarians. And while you are a gratuitous person, you put yourself on every issue concerning the bill and not only did you find yourself not able to say a word, despite the fact that I caused you in my first speech yesterday, on the amendment tabled by the JRC. Of course, no other party was present, although at the meeting with the mayors' delegation they had expressed their sympathy and understanding of this amendment. What is this amendment, with which the CEDEFOP is also in agreement? It is a simple amendment that enables municipal councils to delete the debts of people's families, on the basis of income criteria, to protect them from electronic auctions. What does the amendment say? To be able, in other words, to decide on the total or partial deletion of all kinds of debts to persons who are long-term unemployed, those who are integrated into social income, disabled persons, to tenants, to third parties, to single parents and to be protected against electronic auctions. Is that what you're going to say in your speech, Minister? Will you put yourself on this specific amendment? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u533	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Spirtzi, you have the floor. Please warmly stay in the five minutes, just like the Minister then stay in the fifteenth minute, so we can finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u534	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we hope that our position on upgrading local government is shared and improving the functioning of its institution. It is one of the most important, if not the main, factors for the depth of our democracy, for the construction of democratic institutions, which, unfortunately, both New Democracy and old-fashioned communism have deliberately earned or dissolved in many cases. In the face of the criticism of both CLIMATE and of every great reform that we are discussing, we are wondering - and the question is good, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy - whether you are referring to our country, if so many decades you have ruled, you have had the slightest sense of what you have done, what has been done in the country where you were taking us. If you had the slightest feeling and you say what you say today, things are much worse and we'll talk about them shortly afterwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u535	Three and a half years...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u536	You'll hear it all. One-one you'll hear them. Mr. Mitsotakis addressed the Hellenism of the Diaspora and accused us of leaving SYRIZA during the three years. I mean, all the migratory flow of the 1950s and 60s, all the scientists, hundreds of thousands of scientists who left the previous years, who ruled, you want to load it on SYRIZA. Good. So let me remind you: you hadn't made a record of the scientists who left or where they were. You sent us to the Technical Chamber, the German OAED, you sent us the Australians to send engineers and doctors to Australia. Have you forgotten? Three years ago, it happened. And now you're coming to tell us why the Scurlet doesn't have the device ready to vote on these people? And they'll vote and turn around, but from us, not from you who kicked them out. And we'll highlight the lies you've told today and what your real concern is. So you say that the simple analogue will pay the transaction to the local government, the complexion, the hostage of the mayor and the periphery of the minority. Well, we're gonna have a game: I'm gonna tell examples of what we've lived and you're gonna name us. In other words, there was no regional director elected with the New Democracy - Odysseus spoke last, my friend - who was then partly supported by the New Democracy with Vice-Presidents who set PASOK and then re-elected with the New Democracy, with its support, and today the New Democracy does not want to support him on its own. There wasn't. There was not one mayor, who, while having the anointing of the New Democracy, supported another district commander, but another party and changed votes under the table. There wasn't. There has so far been no elected member of a municipal party who has not left and has not supported the mayor and the ballot elected and the mayor who has lost his majority. There isn't. So the complexion, the lisverish, the transaction, the interest groups have not so far been in local government, and all this will be just proportional! I mean, a district officer, all these years, a mayor, didn't tell you anything. You are accusing us of bringing ineffectiveness and power. Over the last three years more than 1.2 billion projects have been responded by the General Secretariat of Public Works, since 2000, most in 2003 and 2004, which the municipalities have done nothing, committed money, exist. You blame the "CLEARED" on issues of opacity. Yes, sir. In other words, there were no mayors who had direct assignments to their friends to date. There was no district ruler giving his chosen forty-fives. They said that from Thessaloniki too. There was no mayor who made illegal recruitment. There was no mayor who smuggled money from the municipality fund for his resignation. There were no findings from Mr. Rakinzis that the most corrupt space is local government. Nothing! You've heard nothing! The simple analogue did this! [[Noise in the Chamber]] [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. You're not asking a bit of your staff who were at the Ministry of the Environment - where is Mr. Kalafatis? - How many biological studies were carried out on specific companies? Two-three companies were! How many studies did you give the specific two-three companies only for the biological ones, which were in the courts all these set-up contests? We said: We'll say what happened if you know them, and you'll remember names. You'll remember them. What happened in developmental, how many of your laws were destroyed, but will “KLITHENIS” have chaos and you remember nothing about flood protection, for the uses of land, for the streams that had been closed...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u537	Minister, please close.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u538	I shall conclude, Mr President, although I have too much. I would like to ask, if anything, that they commit themselves, since they are on the brink of governance, that when they do not return, they will never support direct awards as they were, the study system - manufacturing as it was. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Say it, because you passed the Public Procurement Act, and today you're complaining to him. We're going crazy! Mr. Haritsis needs to see it again. He gave four billion to the district managers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u539	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u540	Tell us about Kalogy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u541	Whatever you want, I'll tell you about Kallagry. For Mr. Mitsotakis' partner, you're going to tell him all these years you've been trading.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u542	Minister, help me finish this, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u543	I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the Chamber of Technical Chamber, which was simply proportional, we had it and applied it with all its parts. In the last few decades, Koulubis, the forgiven Desslas, the forgiven Liaskas, the forgiven Panagiotopoulos, the uncle of the New Democracy MP from Kavala, was elected. We had voted for him and then the coalition and Yiannis Alavanos who represented him and the New Democracy and us. Just what does this system do? And that's your problem. It brings another logic, a chamber logic, a self-government logic. It's not the mayor's feudal, it's not a gift to the party that belongs to the party that's part of the party as you wished, and that upsets you. It upsets you, because it's tearing you down the whole old-fashioned communal system you've built for so many years. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing again and again.]] You unfortunately did not understand what happened in 2015.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u544	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u545	I'm done, Mr. President. You won't understand anything either in 2019 or 2023. Then we'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u546	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u547	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that at the meeting of this bill, which started last Friday, first in the committees, and yesterday, a great deal has been said today. First of all, I should like to make two points which have been ignored in several of the speeches. I think it is good that at the end of the vote on this bill, an overtime demand, the partition of the second Athens, seems to me to be becoming a reality. You want, because it was so social pressure? You want to because we brought it in? It doesn't matter. It is important, and I think the political forces that will support it are all credited, that this overtime demand, as it turns out, will be accepted. The second is that it concerns the Greeks abroad, that by voting today's bill it will be launched so that within the year we have here in Parliament a specific proposal on which to put up and vote in search of a solution to this issue. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Ladies and gentlemen, two articles from over two hundred and fifty of this bill brought together the interest of most of the interventions. However, anyone who followed the debate from last Friday until today will find that in critical other provisions deliberately there was no comment or that the questions raised, if they were in a right direction, were not answered. For example, no one was able to answer why until now the basic criterion for the allocation of resources was the population, and it is in the wrong direction that for the first time a particular provision is made, the state law becomes, the possibility of categorizing the municipalities and new criteria are introduced for the allocation of resources that we have, in one direction, just to be able to bridge this great gap between the region and the metropolitan centre of Athens and Thessaloniki. It has been underestimated that by voting on this bill, self-government is coming out with more tools in its hands to policy, whether with the possibility of making programming contracts with other public bodies, a consistent request to overcome those cases of subscribing and inadequacy in its technical services, either by strengthening the EBRD and the EBRD or by enabling networks to be set up at the international level of technical services, to help implement specific projects. These provisions are very crucial to the daily life of the municipalities, since there has been a great deal of talk about this everyday life. An effort has been made to distort the great, decisive, step-by-step, first step to reconstruct the issue of the relationship of central authority and self-government I and II degrees, which is the establishment of the law-maker. And that was a request. It was completely ignored that municipalities were given the opportunity in a more flexible way to pursue a policy in relation to their municipal fees. The scale has increased. There are new possibilities. Now it is possible for municipalities to exercise this equivalent field of action in a more effective way. Ladies and gentlemen, obviously the debate has been revolved on the issues of democracy. Two basic different concepts have emerged here, first of all one that relates to the same terms of reproduction of the political system. In a rabies way, the simple analogue was struck. In addition to all others, it enables the local government itself, the local communities, by extension, to manipulate and break this chain linking the reproduction of the central political establishment from local government to the central political scene. You can't dig that. But that's liberating. This gives local government space, gives new potential, gives new breath. You have underestimated the issue of the vote. You have underestimated the need for a representative record of the real connections and put a dilemma in danger, such as efficiency or democracy. But let us think about other dilemmas we hear from time to time: Democracy - economic development. It is a slippery path, because it eventually leads to a limited sense of democracy, leading to totalitarian approaches. In this sense, therefore, the introduction of simple proportionality is a deep democratic incision and is an honor for our Government that connects its name to a request for decades. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I'm surprised to have colleagues. I'm not talking about the New Democracy colleagues. They have their distance from this perception. They are occupied by a special old state. This has emerged in the debate. It is no accident that they were unable to respond to the criticism that they accepted that they had not brought forward a reform proposal since '74'. They didn't sing anything. I was impressed by the position of colleagues from the Change Movement, when it is known that this place was always in favour of mere proportional. There is not much self-government personality from the left, from the wider progressive space, which has not been struggling for the introduction of a mere analogous, Mr Koutsouko, which is also a system through which you personally emerged from the unions, because that was also a cut when the mere proportionalness to the functioning of the cooperative unions was established. Apparently the mutation is great. That is what you were quite clear about. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill comes as a continuation of various other initiatives taken by our government. It coincides with the country's exit from the programs. The recovery of the economy is a reality which is not only based on the formal ending of the programme, but on the fact that we can now speak with concrete figures that testify to it: the increase in exports, growth rates of more than 2% this year, the declining of unemployment, the positive assessments of the international houses and the upgrading of our economy, the possibility of borrowing out of international markets. Isn't that all a few remarks? It's not negligible. They precisely identify the new territory in which we will be invited to continue from the next day. It is important here to see what the role of local government will be in this new phase in which the country is coming. Because here they really fight two different perceptions. The reform is that of market neoliberalism, the one that wants to shrink the state, wants to shrink self-government, cremate it, dehydrate it from its social dimension and turn it into an intermodal service, which will simply make the wheelmen against local private interests. It is the New Democracy of the Twelve, which considers the eight hours outdated, that is the New Democracy that faces education as a case where students and students are customers and the education commodity, is the New Democracy that considers that in health the medical staff are overtaken, it is the New Democracy of one to five, subsecution, it is the New Democracy of tradition in the blind forces of the market, as a whole. That's the conception we're across the street. This will be the new field of programming competition the next day. Ladies and gentlemen, this flagship bill is going to be added to a number of other things that our Government has done, not only in an attempt to manage an agreement in the softest way, in an effort to mitigate the effects of this agreement that we signed in 2015. It comes to be added alongside the gender identity bill, for citizenship, to support the weakest strata. It comes to be added to the bill that guaranteed the public character of IPTO. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] It is intended to be added to efforts to reform the education sector. It comes to add to the great effort in the field of health, to set up the primary health system in these difficult conditions, to the fact that two and a half million fellow citizens in very difficult conditions found care in hospitals. The Left, therefore, in these difficult circumstances, practiced its print. So on that, we will be assessed. We shall be judged on that and we still have a long way to go. Ladies and gentlemen, you like many of you in the area of counter-population, to say to SYRIZA: "Forgot all you have said for so many years and possessed by a mania for chairs". You called it so monotonous, no lack of preparation and fantasy. One said it, two said it. We should at least at least distribute it with its own elements. Do you know what you remind me of when you say that? You remind me of the one who goes to do a psychoanalysis, sits in the psychoanalyst's bed and talks about his insects, about his wishes. You give this image. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You cannot stand in front of the good, as you have said, of power. But be careful of something. Turn to this Chamber, look who you have next to you, look at Yannis Theonas, who has come out of the labor movement, look at Mustafa Mustafa, a doctor who has passed the millions of what in his life, because there has been a faithful, honest, consistent left, look at the anti-dictatoric Mitafidis, the anti-dictator Nikos Manios. Do you all know what they are? They and many others? They're just people. They're people of everyday life. These are all rich, not under the conditions you understand. They're rich in ideas, visions, unselfishness. They are the ones who have inspired and inspired another life, with less exploitation and more democracy. That's our deposit. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] They all, when they were born, did not say to them: 'My child, you will become Minister, my child will become a MP'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u548	More. We need more!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u549	Those people see them in their eyes and appreciate them. The relationship between this world and society is the appreciation relationship, whether or not it agrees. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] So with these thoughts and without wishing to trouble you any more, because I know that you are quite tired, personally, I honestly believe that something that our Government has committed itself to doing from the programme statements will happen and is being implemented during the period when I am an Interior Minister. Another time begins for self-government.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u550	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the Ministry of the Interior draft: "Reforming the institutional framework of the Local Government - Development of the Republic - Enhancing the Participation - Improving the economic and development functioning of the OTAs [Clean I Programme] - Arrangements for the modernisation of the framework for the organisation and operation of the VOCs. - Arrangements for the effective, more rapid and uniform exercise of the responsibilities for the award of citizenship and naturalisation - Other provisions of the RIS. We move on to vote on the principle, articles, amendments and the whole draft law, and they will be voted on separately.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u551	Minister, you have spoken for 15 minutes and not a second to say a word.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u552	Please, listen to what I'm saying, 'cause then we'll get into trouble.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u553	Mr President, let me answer for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u554	You're welcome, Minister. You have the floor. I'm sorry, Mr. Karathanasopou.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u555	If I may, Mr Voridis, and with your agreement, I should like to speak. Mr Karathanasopoulos, you have tabled an amendment which talks about the possibility for municipal councils to decide - with income, social criteria, debt write-offs. Indiscriminate debts? Against who? We, I remind you, as the Ministry of the Interior...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u556	Against the municipalities and their locals, not indiscriminately.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u557	So you're talking about debts to the municipalities. I ask that, because there could be debts to insurance funds, tax and so on. [[Noise from the wing of the JRC]] You don't say that, I'm glad. I would therefore like to remind you that last year this particular provision had been passed, which was in force for a transitional period and established, by the end of November, the possibility of deletion of all the surcharges and fines that were available to the municipalities for a specific period, until the end of November, and the possibility of repayment in a hundred instalments. So I tell you that in the next few months, and in consultation with the CEDEFOP, we will consider the possibility of voting again and establishing such a provision.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u558	What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u559	Please. What do you say, "What do you say?" It was last year from August to November. You didn't do it. You're a classic analogy, Mr. Brutsi, we know that, the wage and pension cutter. You especially are the wages and pensions butcher. And you should...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u560	Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u561	What are you talking about? Are these serious things? You're a liar!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u562	And you should be in lower tones. You guys, especially.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u563	You're a liar, you made fun of the world. You personally are the greatest liar. Team dismissals...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u564	Minister, you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u565	Mrs. Theleritis, you know that the President of Parliament had asked us to finish at 22.30 p.m. and it was required to finish at 22.00 p.m. to prevent the airplanes' routes. Let's finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u566	But does he say we're lying?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u567	Please! The Bureau wants to help us get this over with. On the basis of the decision of the Conference of Presidents today, Rule 255 of the bill is automatically put to a roll-call vote against the Constitution as it concerns a change in the electoral law. Ladies and gentlemen, a request has been made for a roll-call vote by Members of the New Democracy in principle and on Articles 28 and 56 of the draft law, the text of which reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u568	I will also read out the list of signatories for the roll-call vote to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mr. Voridis Mavroudis. Here you go. Mr. Tsiaras Konstantinos. Here you go. Mr. Koukodimos Konstantinos. Here you go. Mr. Kelles Christos. Here you go. Mr. Bukouros Christos. Here you go. Mr. Katsiantonis Georgios. Here you go. Mr. Yakoumatos Grassos. Here you go. Mrs. Antoniou Maria. Here. Mrs. Rapthi Helen. Here. Mrs. Karamanlis Anna. Here. Mr. Jason Lightlas. Here you go. Mr. Koumoutsas Georgios. Here you go. Mr. Yoyakas Vassilis. Here you go. Mr. Placiotakis Yiannis. Here you go. Mr Anastasiades Savvas. Here you go. Mr. Charakopoulos Maximus. Here you go. Mr Vagionas Georgios. Here you go. Mr. Georgiadis Spyridon - Adonis. Here you go. Mr. Congogiorgos Konstantinos. Here you go. Mr. Karagkounis Konstantinos. Here you go. Mr. Stamatis Dimitrios. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for a roll-call vote. In addition, a request has been made for the roll-call vote of Members of the Democratic Incorporation in principle, Articles 6, 16, 17, 28, 45, 46, 52, 56, 69, 73, 76, 189 and 190, as well as for the amendment with a general number of 1682 and a special 71 of the draft law, the text of which is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u569	I will also read out the list of signatories for the roll-call vote to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mrs. Christophilopoulou. Here. Mr. Arvanitides Georgios. Here you go. Mr. Ahmet Ilhan. Here you go. Mr. Venizelos Evangelos. Here you go. Mr. Gregorakos Leonidas. Here you go. Mr. Theocharopoulos Athanasios. Here you go. Mr. Karras Georgios - Dimitrios. Here you go. Mrs. Kefalidou Hara. Here. Mr. Koutsoukos Yiannis. Here you go. Mr. Kremastinos Dimitrios. Here you go. Mr. Constantinople Odysseus. Here you go. Mr. Constantopoulos Dimitrios. Here you go. Mr. Loverdos Andreas. Here you go. Mr. Maniotis Yiannis. Here you go. Mr. Barriots Constantine. Here you go. Mr. Papatheodoros Theodore. Here you go. Mr. Scandalidis Konstantinos. Here you go. Mr. Kegeroglu Vasiliou. Here you go. Mr. Jelephus Michael. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for a roll-call vote. We are therefore adjourned for ten (10') minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u570	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We shall compile the three roll-call votes in one. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u571	The House has agreed. Ladies and gentlemen, there will be a roll-call vote on this point at the outset, Articles 6, 16, 17, 28, 45, 46, 52, 56, 69, 73, 76, 189, 190 and 255, as well as Amendment Nos 1682 and special 71 of the bill. Each time on the screen up to four articles to be voted on are shown. To vote and the rest you have to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. Make sure that you have voted for all the articles and the amendment. After registering your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. For any information, please contact the Bureau, so that the officials concerned may assist you. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote begins. I would very much ask that the electronic voting system be opened. [[VOCATIONAL TRAINING]] Until the electronic vote is completed, I would like to inform you that letters or faxes have been sent to the Bureau by colleagues, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, to which they give their vote. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. The letters sent to the Bureau by colleagues under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure will be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u572	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that we have received letters from colleagues from the Bureau expressing the intention of voting. These letters will be entered in the minutes of today's sitting, but are not based on the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u573	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u574	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote. At the beginning of the bill, 273 MPs voted in total. In favour of the principle, i.e. 'NAI', 150 Members voted. On the first point, the House voted 123 Members. The draft law was therefore accepted by a majority in principle. Article 6 has adopted a total of 273 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NA', 150 Members voted. Against the article, namely 'Notice', they voted 123 Members. Article 6 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Article 16 passed a total of 273 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NA', 150 Members voted. Against the article, namely 'Notice', they voted 118 Members. "PARON" have voted 5 MPs. Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 17 passed a total of 273 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 151 Members voted. Against the article, namely 'Notice', they voted 118 Members. "PARON" have voted 5 MPs. Article 17 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 28 passed a total of 272 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 161 Members. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', 111 Members voted. Article 28 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 45 has passed a total of 272 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 149 Members voted. Against the article, namely 'Notice', they voted 123 Members. Article 45 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Article 46 has passed a total of 272 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 149 Members voted. Against the article, namely 'Notice', they voted 123 Members. Article 46 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Article 52 passed a total of 272 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 149 Members voted. Under Rule, 'Notice', 119 Members voted. "PARON" 4 MPs voted. Article 52 was therefore accepted as a majority. A total of 272 Members voted on Article 56. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 161 Members. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', 111 Members voted. Article 56 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 69 passed a total of 272 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NA', 150 Members voted. Against the article, namely 'Notice', they voted 118 Members. "PARON" 4 MPs voted. Article 69 was therefore accepted as a majority. A total of 272 Members voted on Article 73. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 149 Members voted. Against the article, namely 'Notice', they voted 123 Members. Article 73 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 76 has passed a total of 272 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 149 Members voted. Against the article, namely 'Notice', they voted 123 Members. Article 76 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. A total of 272 Members voted on Article 189. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 149 Members voted. Against the article, namely 'Notice', they voted 118 Members. "PARON" have voted 5 MPs. Article 189 was therefore accepted as a majority. A total of 272 Members voted on Article 190. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 149 Members voted. Against the article, namely 'Notice', they voted 118 Members. "PARON" have voted 5 MPs. Article 190 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 255 passed a total of 272 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 241 Members voted. Against the article, i.e. 'NO', 31 Members voted. "PARON" have voted 5 MPs. Article 255 was therefore accepted as a majority. The amendment under number 1682 and a special number 71 voted for a total of 272 Members. In the interests of the amendment, i.e. 'NAH', 149 Members voted. On the other hand, the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work was rejected by the "PARON" voted for 1 Member. The amendment under general number 1682, and a special 71, therefore, was accepted as it is by a majority. Members' positions, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u575	Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting on the articles, amendments and all of them and they will be voted on separately. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u576	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u577	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u578	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Interior: "Reforming the institutional framework of the Local Government - Development of the Republic - Strengthening the Participation - Improving the economic and development functioning of the IATS [CLIMEN I]" - Arrangements for modernising the framework for the organisation and operation of the IACs. - Arrangements for the effective, more rapid and uniform exercise of the responsibilities for the award of citizenship and naturalisation - Other provisions relating to the competence of SPS and other provisions' were accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u579	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u580	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-12-S1-commons.u581	(a) "To amend provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the House - Part II (Failure to hire 51A'/10.4.1997) and Part Parliament (Law 106 A'/24.6.1987) as in force" and (b) "Amendment to the sitting on 15.12.1994 Parliament's decision (VAT 234 A'/27.12.1994), as in force, "Appropriate rental for a similar number of rooms for the residence of the deprived owner or employed person in the area of the former Headquarters of the Republic of Bulgaria", in accordance with the special agenda to be distributed.
