ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-02-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 1-10-2018, the Minutes of its 2nd sessions, Monday, 1 October 2018, with regard to the election of the Quaestors and Secretaries of the House were confirmed by the Bureau.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Tourism: "Definition of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the World Tourism Organisation (WTO) on the organisation of the 8th International Meeting of the POT on Tourism in the Silk Road". Today we have a very nice matter! The draft was adopted by a majority in the Standing Committee. It is introduced to the House in accordance with the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, that is to say, those who only object to the ratification of this agreement can take the floor. Does a colleague want to take the floor? Let us say that the parties' positions in committee were as follows: SYRIZA in favour, New Democracy in favour, Golden Dawn against, JRC with reservation, Independent Greeks in favour, the River in favour and the Centron Association with reservation. Therefore, according to the Rules of Procedure, we begin with the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-02-S1-commons.u2	We are voting against.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-02-S1-commons.u3	Is that all? Thank you. Mr. Lambroulis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-02-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Madam President. As we also stressed in the committee in the debate on this convention, developments in the tourism sector are directly linked to developments in the global capitalist economy, developments in the European Union and, of course, the intra-imperialist contradictions and competition unfolding in the Mediterranean and not only the imperialist interventions and precisely on the basis of these developments are also caused by the declines in tourist flows. So the imperialist interventions, wars in our region, and not just the great instability that is being caused in the wider sense, are at this stage strengthening the flows towards our country. But the major increases in tourist flows today can be succeeded by major reductions tomorrow, on the basis of geopolitical antagonisms and conflicts that determine not only the course of tourism but also the economy in general. And confirmation of this is Turkey and Egypt in our region. In this area of deep opposition and competition in the United States, the European Union, Russia and China, with the huge concentration of military forces in our region, destabilisation forces, in order to promote the interests of monopolistic groups, monopolistic colossal groups and, at the same time, the undermining of the perversion, nationalism, the claims of countries against others, the change of borders with the defeat of peoples, the so-called silk road, is nothing more than a field of processes, competitions and reconversion of imperialist alliances, with the European Union developing in the near future in a field of heightened competition. So the international meeting organized by the World Tourism Organization in Thessaloniki has nothing to offer, not only to the Greek people, but also to any other people, since the World Tourism Organization forms directions and investment plans that serve to strengthen the competitiveness of the tourist business groups. Similarly, any actions and programmes are being drawn up, tailored to the needs of the industry's monopolies' profitability and of these plans no one has to win, as are the employees in tourism. On the other hand, workers in the sector in all countries are working in conditions of far-reachingness, intensification, exhausting working hours, low wages and over-exploitation, while people in countries with great tourist development live in conditions of poverty, poverty and impoverishment, with the right to holidays, rest, entertainment, tourism to be a dream of summer nights for the majority of workers, since it is a luxurious commodity in the context of the current form of economic organisation and not a social right. And precisely to satisfy this social right of the people, whose present system of capitalism cannot be covered, we say that it is possible and can be done, provided that all tourist infrastructures are also placed in the service of this right. A condition? Get the motive of capitalist profit out of the waist. Organize production with an incentive to popular needs, with workers in power. In view of the above, we will vote against the contract. However, I should like to raise the question which we have raised in the committee and which, of course, seems to me to be in the Convention in particular concerning the report by the State Accounting Office which does not reflect, even for example, a certain amount. I should like to remind you that, on the pretext of not releasing the sums in the report from the State Accountancy of the State, it has rejected proposals for laws, amendments, and in particular amendments from the Communist Party relating to relief - the removal of the burdens of the people's families, of the people's units, which are of course brutally swept away from the measures taken by both the current government and the previous governments. I would like to ask the Commissioner if he is prepared to give us an answer to this question. So we expect the Minister, even in this case, to answer us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-02-S1-commons.u5	I would like to announce to the House that the Ministers for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights and Economic Affairs, as well as the Deputy Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, have tabled the 1-10-2018 draft law: 'Urgent arrangements for the submission of statements of assets and other provisions'. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. In addition, the MP Georgios Koumoutsakos is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad from 3 October 2018 to 5 October 2018. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-02-S1-commons.u6	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Mrs Zaroulia now wants to talk for five minutes. I have to say that I have not put any time before, considering that all my colleagues will be brief. Mrs Zaroulia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-02-S1-commons.u7	We must mention once again, since we are the only party to vote against the bill - an event for the 'Mexico Road', which will be organized in Thessaloniki, the unprecedented fact that a plenary meeting of the Greek Parliament is needed in order to hold a secondary event involving the World Tourism Organization and other bodies. Unprecedented, because the government has not only taken care to highlight this event, which may be important for our country's tourism business, but also because it has not made sure that those involved with tourism are informed. In other words, we are talking about an event that even if it was as important as the government wanted to present to us, there has been nothing important to prepare it as it should, advertise it and show it. If so, why is there absolutely no evidence of the importance of the event with evidence in the explanatory statement? So, what sectors of the economy and tourism are it about? What production entities are of interest? What will contribute to the national economy? What tourism is reinforced by this effort? The conferenceman, the healer, the religionist? Why does the explanatory statement not say that? Why don't you tell us, anyway? Therefore, whether we are dealing with another proverbial carelessness of the Government, which is trying at the last moment, ten days before the event, to turn the vote to make available the unknown funds, whether this is an important event and the government has once again lost the opportunity, as it ought to, to obtain the required national benefits, as it usually does. In both cases, especially since the information required has not been provided, it is justifiable that we have a negative attitude, which is based mainly on the opaqueness of the funds to be made available. However, we believe that any opportunity, in which our country is heard abroad, is positive and must be exploited, because it bears fruit on the domestic market. However, this must be done in a system and consistent manner, rather than opportune and roughly, as it seems to be in this particular case. In addition, the clarification provided by the Minister, Mr Katrugalos, after our committee's position, may have resolved in part why he is introducing an event in Thessaloniki in the form of a bill, but has not solved the most important issue, which is the funds available. Especially on the question of the funds available in relation to the event, for which other representatives were put, the explanations provided are completely inadequate. The share of responsibility for this is, of course, also in the General Accounting Office of the State, which tolerates vagueness, rather than making an even approximate assessment of the amounts to be made available for the success of the event. About how much will be required? Can he answer us at least now, a few days before the event, the Minister responsible? They will exceed 10,000, 100,000, 500,000 euros all of the services, hotels, cars, secretarial support, rooms etc. Or will it be even more? From which line, whose body will you be made available, and if you have any picture, why do you not transfer it to the General Accounting Office of the State, which composes reports setting out it? Furthermore, since the text states that there can be a 'external sponsorship' aimed at increasing its quality', why did you not seek to obtain this grant so that the state budget is not charged at costs, which you cannot even tell us today? The answer is one. Because as usual at the last minute you thought there was an event pending, and at the last minute you are forced to vote, because otherwise it would be in the air. From the Minister's reply to our previous position in the committee, something else has come up, which, I think, can explain today. He said attributes that 'we do not have a special contract with the World Tourism Organisation for immunity and imperfections'. Our question is: How does a country, which invests so much in tourism, not to date have a contract with the Agency for imperfections? As you can see, there are a number of unanswered questions, which will not be answered, which have been caused by a sense of clandestineness, not only the text you are bringing to the vote, but, very fearfully, the event itself. That is why the Golden Dawn is voting against this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-02-S1-commons.u8	Thank you. Would a colleague want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-02-S1-commons.u9	I would like the floor, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-02-S1-commons.u10	Come on, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-02-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Madam President. We agreed in committee on the ratification of the act between the World Tourism Organisation and the Ministry of Tourism of our country for this event. We did, however, give some thoughts. The first is in relation to the budget. There is a report from the General Accounting Office of the State, which says that there will be a burden on the State budget. Can there not be an indicative budget, Minister, for this particular event? How much will the state budget be charged? On the other hand, we have also raised some other concerns, such as how sloppy you are dealing with such an important opportunity, especially today, which, for us, investment is what we want, as a country. In this grand plan, on the part of China, this collaborative initiative, there are hundreds of seventeen actors on the part of China and about a hundred other players from the other states. All of these participate in economic, construction and financial cooperation. Action is being taken to promote these partnerships, such as this one, in order to have a business link at economic level, but also at the level of cultural institutions, selfgovernment and universities. And now I come to ask, on our side, what is our aim? You refer to the explanatory statement very thoroughly, including the way in which invited guests will be invited to attend. What's our goal as a country? There is no mention of any investment opportunities that might arise for our country or whether our country is ready and prepared to target somewhere. What do we expect from this agreement? I am pleased that the government, through the turn of its ideological thought and the end of its delusion, is now landing in reality and comes to this cooperative initiative, the new 'travel of silk'. However, when, in November 2015, this initiative was taken in China while at least fifteen countries participated in the European Union, we were absent. So it is good that, even today, our country is present in this process. In fact, I would like to stress that, yes, we agree that this is an opportunity for the country's tourist view and for the further blooming of the tourist development we need. And we cannot oppose the ratification of this act and, for another reason, this international advisory committee of China has been taking part, as a member of the committee, the former Prime Minister of the country and President of the Socialist International, George Papandreou. I think it would be useful for the government to take advantage of this fact for our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-02-S1-commons.u12	Mr. Jelloney, I misused your word, but it's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-02-S1-commons.u13	I think I'm expecting the Minister, at least on two serious issues, one of the budget...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-02-S1-commons.u14	That you could say in a minute. You could just ask questions and finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-02-S1-commons.u15	Did it bother you that I referred to the former Prime Minister George Papandreou?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-02-S1-commons.u16	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-02-S1-commons.u17	What can we do? He's a member of this committee you brought in to discuss.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-02-S1-commons.u18	It bothers you, not me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-02-S1-commons.u19	I think it is inappropriate to interrupt me, Madam President, when you have not even finished the five minutes you have given me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-02-S1-commons.u20	Finish now, Mr. Jelloney.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-02-S1-commons.u21	So, for our part - to conclude, since the President is in a hurry - we agree that the agreement should be ratified, as I have pointed out in the committee. There, I have raised the concerns and I expect the Minister to respond, both to the budget and to the specific target that the Ministry has for the benefits that our country can have from this agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-02-S1-commons.u22	I do not think anyone else would want to take the floor while they are in favour of the agreement. Now the Minister has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-02-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, tourism is our priority. We are the first government to recognise the value of tourism and its catalytic contribution to economic development and social well-being of our country. With strong political will, with vision and hard work, within very difficult and often adverse conditions, in recent years, we have given considerable impetus to tourism and have now been a strong driving force for our national economy. Since 2015 we have been implementing our national and regional tourism policy with the aim of tourism three hundred and sixty-five days a year. Our policy has led to the greatest tourist leap of all times and has yielded tangible results. For four years we have broken all the records in arrivals, in revenues and in all tourist sizes. We increased the incoming tourism by 25% over the past three years steadily. We had two million international arrivals every year. In 2017, for the first time, we exceeded the 30 million-dollar barrier. We had thirty million international visitors along with the cruise. In 2018, we sought and achieved even stronger demand for Greece, even though our neighboring destinations have significantly recovered. We are currently the best tourist year for Greece and we have ensured a two-digit increase in increases and a two-digit increase in revenue, the highest in our tourism history. Reservations are also increased for the autumn months, especially in winter, a period that we have supported, because we have chosen to stimulate it with a very strong intention and visibility, special agreements and negotiations, so that we can increase our tourist traffic all year round. As they all show, we will be over thirty - two million visitors by the end of the year. We have achieved these excellent results through a concrete plan on five strategic axes. We were prolonging the summer tourist season. We increased winter tourism. We have strengthened our traditional markets in Europe. We have also opened up new markets for foreign visitors from which we have a two-digit increase every year, so that today six of our ten foreign visitors are both a high-income and a high-educational level. We developed thematic tourism, where it attracts visitors to our country all year round, but it also creates new professional activity and new development opportunities throughout the country. With specific strategic agreements and cooperation, but also with systematic work, we have achieved this rapid increase in tourism from which, above all, not only the popular ones, but also the new Greek destinations we have promoted, have benefited. With our tourism policy they have greatly increased their turnover and profitability, not only the professionals throughout the tourist sector, but also the businesses of many other productive sectors of the economy, such as trade, transport, primary production, focus, food, construction, real estate, and the revenues of the archaeological sites, museums, tax-free markets and of course local markets. Through this tourist development we have brought the stimulation of employment. New jobs have been created in all areas directly and indirectly linked to tourism. Together with the high tourist performance we have achieved, we have systematically promoted attractive opportunities abroad in this very dynamicly growing tourism sector in recent years, so that we have a explosion of investment interest and new investment. [[At this point, the end of the speech bell of the Secretary-General hits the warning bell.]] I'm gonna need two minutes, Madam President. International tourist groups, hotel chains and investment funds explore these opportunities we have announced and these investment projects are also very much found in development law as strategic investments too. At the same time, we have mobilised thousands of new small and medium-sized enterprises to create themselves in tourism, as all the applications show in the ESDP programmes that we have launched. And we are not reassured because we are stepping up negotiations and agreements with the outside world. We are stepping up the global tourist promotion and promotion so that we can maintain and increase our national tourist shares. We therefore support the revenues in tourism. We have shaped our development plan and on this with sustainable and balanced development and in cooperation with the World Tourism Organisation, we have been able to be elected for the first time at the Executive Council of the World Tourism Organisation for 2018-2021 and Greece is now actively involved in and contributes to the formulation of world policies in the megatrends, but also imposes its positions within the World Travel and Tourism Council, as well as in the OECD with excellent cooperation, so that we strengthen our institutional role. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] This agreement, therefore, between the Greek Government, represented by the Ministry of Tourism, and the World Tourism Organization, forms part of this strategic option, both of the Government for the promotion and development of bilateral relations and of the Ministry of Tourism to strengthen Greece's tourist promotion and promotion and upgrading of tourism on the global tourism market. It is very important that for the first time in Greece there will be an international PDO meeting. Greece is at the heart of this internationally because it hosts this meeting between representatives of states and private entities, with the aim and the development of bilateral and international cooperation in areas such as tourism, the economy, the financial system, intangible cultural heritage. The network of tourist routes, continental and maritime, developed on the ‘Mexico Road’, creates opportunities for cross-border cooperation, collaborative promotion and promotion of destinations, the development of new tourist products and partnerships between the public and private sectors, as well as the protection of cultural heritage. It is based on the exchanges between peoples, cultures, religions and goods along the "Mexico Road" from ancient times. The benefits for Greece are therefore important and are as follows: the country's position as an institutional partner is strengthened. The road opens to strengthening bilateral relations and to developing new relations with countries and emerging economies. Through agreements with this international gravity and prestige, such as that for the World Tourism Organisation, we are increasing our tourism extrovert internationally and strengthening our competitive position in tourism. We are creating good ground and conditions not only to maintain the excellent results we have, but also to increase the tourist flows to our country in the years to come. We also promote new attractive opportunities for high-value tourism investment. So this is an initiative with a very important development mark. It serves to identify new opportunities, both for destinations and for partners interested in cross-border cooperation and for the development of innovative thematic products, based on the use of cultural resources. From the tourist development we are mobilizing, of course, local communities on the silk road benefit and investment is strengthened through the maintenance and promotion of the cultural heritage of the route. With this agreement and Greece's participation, we also succeed in strengthening the recognition of the sightseeing and destinations of the silk road. We are creating a new tourist offer that promotes, in addition to established tourist products and new activities of special alternative forms, such as cultural, maritime and gastronomy. And, of course, always on the basis of modern international trends in travellers' preferences, and the further extension of the period to destinations related to the travel journey is achieved. Cooperation in the tourism sector of the States participating in this initiative is encouraged, as destinations and those active are exchanged know-how on sustainable tourism development issues. The networking and development of local SMEs is also encouraged. Through all these actions and initiatives, new economic growth is being achieved which creates new jobs on the silk tourist roads.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-02-S1-commons.u24	Madam Minister, I can't give you any more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-02-S1-commons.u25	I would like to say one more sentence, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the two questions that have been asked, I would like to say that we did not have a bilateral agreement with the World Tourism Organisation, because we were never important, I would say, within the World Tourism Organisation procedure, as we are today. We were just a member. Today we are in the executive conference. That is why we did not have this bilateral, if you like, contract on imperfections, benefits, privileges and facilities. As for the state budget we have mentioned, it is too small. To understand all the costs the region has incurred and of course all parts of the World Tourism Organization. EOT's just taking over for lunch. All the rest shall be borne by the region and the other members.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-02-S1-commons.u26	But a contract has to be made.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-02-S1-commons.u27	Oh, no. Thank you very much. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-02-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Minister. The debate on the principle and the articles of the draft law of the Ministry of Tourism is closed: "Under the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the World Tourism Organization (WTO) on the organisation of the 8th International Meeting of the POT on Tourism on the Silk Road". We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-02-S1-commons.u29	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-02-S1-commons.u30	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-02-S1-commons.u31	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Tourism: ‘Preparation of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the World Tourism Organisation (WTO) on the organisation of the 8th International Meeting of the PDO on Tourism on the Silk Road’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-02-S1-commons.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to ratify the Minutes of today's sitting on the whole of this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-02-S1-commons.u33	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-02-S1-commons.u34	With the consent of the House at 18.37 the meeting for tomorrow, Wednesday 3 October 2018 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of the House's legislative work: only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks: "Themes of water, urban road transport and other provisions".
