ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 23-10-2018, the minutes of the IF were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau, on Tuesday, October 23, 2018, with regard to the vote on the whole draft law: "the establishment of a Metropolitan Organisation of Arts Museums and Other Provisions".]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is known in this House that our meeting from the top Western theory of thirty-seven students and schoolchildren and two educational attendants from the 7th Gymnasium of Peristeri (second section). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I also have the honour to announce to the House the topical and urgent question report on Thursday, 25 October 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 82/22-10-2018 by MP Florina of the New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Antoniadis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: ‘Conservation of the areas of the Florina Prefecture in the less-favoured areas’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under No 91/23-10-2018, a topical question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Taking over the serious problems arising from the adoption of the new draft delimitation of the map of disadvantaged areas". 3. The Question No 75-16-10-2018 by MP Pireos of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: “Protection of crews from abandonment of a ship of inland waterways”. 4. Under No 88/22-10-2018, a topical question by MP II Athens of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zarulias to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "The pogrom against the Greeks in Chimara continues." B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 83/22-10-2018 by Mr Simos Kedicoglou, Member of the European Parliament, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: “The Chalkida bypass - N. Lamphakos - Psakna”. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under number 89/22-10-2018, the current question by MP I Piraeus of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "Skopje Lake becomes Thessaloniki on the basis of the Prespecies Agreement". 3. The Question No 93/23-10-2018 by MP Aitolokarnania of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "To complete the irrigation and refreshment project in the plain at the estuary of Mornos". 4. The Question No 96/23-10-2018 by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the subject: “Direct action to protect workers at the LARCO plant” in Larymna Fthiotidas to avoid accidents at work”. 5. The Question No 65/16-10-2018 by Congressman I Athens, New Democracy, Olga Kefaloyiannis, to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on the subject: "The issue of granting historical buildings and archaeological sites to the Hellenic Company of Participation and Property S.A. (SPD S.A.)(')'. 6. The 1/1-10-2018 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Antonios Gregos to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "About the Macedonian Museum and other institutions, associations and associations of Macedonia and Article 6 of the Greek-Skopje Agreement". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: "Urgent arrangements for the submission of statements of assets and other provisions". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 22 October 2018 to discuss the draft law at one to two meetings, uniform, in principle, articles and amendments. This means that, after Mr Karagunis comes down from the Step and see how many colleagues have been enrolled, we will make an estimate of time, and if we are done today in a reasoned time, he will go to a meeting, if we do not, because we expect two ministerial amendments, the time is not enough, the debate will continue tomorrow after parliamentary scrutiny.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u2	Of course, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u3	As far as I can see, I think you are unanimous in approving this procedure. Whether we are going to finish today or not, when we have the picture in front of us, I will ask this House to decide whether or not we will finish today or tomorrow. The House has therefore agreed. The rapporteur for SYRIZA, Mr Ioannis Theocratic, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this bill comes for discussion and a vote here in plenary, after processing in committee. Every time in the committee we discuss justice matters. Why are we doing this? Because there is a prehistoric story in this bill, which deals with the electronic statement 'from the outset' of all the debtors and this amendment. There is a prehistoric story last year with two decisions by the Council of State, which we worked on, we discussed with the judges in particular and we reached a bill, which I am delighted to see has a broad consensus both from this House and from the bodies involved in the consultation. It is an opportunity for this dialogue, for this consultation to be mentioned and for us to clarify certain self-evident truths, which we have also spoken of in the committee, but it is important that people be repeated, so that people can hear them. Our government, the left, and also the democratic area in general, and I believe that all democratic forces, we very much want independent justice, despite what they are trying to present to the contrary, the systemic media, which hide strong business interests, is supposedly between us and justice. There is absolutely no conflict with justice, which respects its work, its institutional role and its independence. We have all seen yesterday the decision of the Inquisite Corruption, with the agreement of the Prosecutor responsible, to order the temporary detention of the former Minister of Defence, Mr Papantoniou and his wife. I do not want to judge this decision, precisely because justice is independent, but also because - and of course I respect it - the presumption of innocence, no matter how much it is bent upon a temporary detention decision. Of course, however, I think I can say what each Greek citizen thinks, namely that in the specific order of detention of a former political man, even a strong political man, the Greek justice was not afraid, it was not, it was truly independent, it did its job and it was blind, as it should be, that is, not to say, to see whether the one for whom the law is being awarded is strong or not. Now, the convict Yannis Papantoniou speaks about a so-called 'Palaki dogma', in essence speaking the same language, using colleagues from the Officerial Representation, the New Democracy, is certainly something that should be considered. "Polakis Doct), so, the Papatonius guard? "Polakis Doct" means the revelations of the "NOVARTIS" scandal? Don't say such pie, such slogans, and so avoid criticism. "Polakis Doct" is the revelations of the exam on loans to parties and the media, from which many felonies have already been formed? "Polakis Doct" means the unbelievably proven and yet proven in the other examination of scandals in the field of health and CEDEFOP? The left - and I repeat - and the democratic area, not only is it not with justice, but it is our demand, independent justice, the one which respects and protects the citizen and his freedoms. There is nothing more democratic and I dare say, nothing more revolutionary than all Greek citizens are equal before the law provided for in the Constitution and justice is shielded. I know, ladies and gentlemen, like many of you, many officials of justice. I am well aware of their difficult working conditions, their self-renunciation and the sacrifice of practically their personal and family life. And when you make so many sacrifices, the last one who wants intervention in his work is the judge himself, and in that will and decision we are with them. The great moments of justice, when she stood up to the established interests of the few and stood in the fair and legitimate interests of many, are also great moments of democracy and the Left. I would like to point out this in favour of the prestige of justice, since I have mentioned from the beginning to the committees that they must all make their self-criticism about how the country fell on the rocks, how the country went bankrupt in 2010, including justice. The right thing is that every body, the executive, the legislative power, the judiciary, the press power to make its self-criticism. I won't repeat it. We all have responsibility for the bankruptcy of the country. Only when everyone recognizes the share, which is equal to it, is corrected and we can look at the future with more optimism. I'm going through the bill. The prehistory of the obligation to submit ‘possibly emblems’ is already beginning in 1964 to a limited number of persons and to a limited number of persons. We had a change in 1987. In 1996, for the first time, judges and prosecutors enter. The biggest amendment was made after and is the law, which we in fact amend and replace on several points today and is Law 3213/2003, which was, of course, amended in 2014 and 2016 by our own legislative intervention. However, substantial intervention is being made today. It is also crucial that the UN Convention against Corruption, which was ratified by a 2008 Act and has a superlegislative effect, which we are applying today. Article 5 of the Convention states: ‘For anti-corruption policies and practices, each Member State shall implement or maintain effective coordinated anti-corruption policies that promote...’, etc. and 'Each Member State will establish and promote effective practices'. Article 8(5) states: ‘Each Member State shall endeavour, where appropriate, to establish measures and systems requiring public officials to make statements on activities, such as employment, investment, assets, etc.’. With this superlegislative power of the United Nations Convention, which also applies to judicial and public prosecutors, we are also implementing this obligation of the country. In addition, in addition to the decisions of the Plenary Assembly of the Council of State, the GRECO Directives are implemented in this bill. One of the most important is that loans and debts should be declared. In addition to the assets of the debtor, the liabilities must also be declared. This also concerns judges and prosecutors. A better staffing is also being established with staff of the Audit Committee and issues of offshore companies. I am going through a gleaning of the most important articles that we have seen in the debates in the committee responsible. I shall mention the most important issues. In Article 1, which covers categories of debtors, those who have concluded a cohabitation agreement with a debtor are now obliged to submit a statement of assets. After the amendment of family law, that is logical and self-evident. It is important that in the school committees of the municipalities, only the presidents and administrators of the bank accounts and not everyone else, the mere members are presenting an asset statement. That was a great hardship for everyone. They cover loopholes of the law, which had been found. The Directors-General of the Ministries, the Study Committees and the publishers of the publications are added. These were omitted by previous legislation. They shall also be exempted from the obligation to submit uniforms, which have been made available because of their injury on time of duty. This is reasonable and correct, and they are suffering from a personal and service suffering, let us avoid the suffering of a statement of property. In addition, the judicial officers also have an obligation to submit a declaration three years after they have lost their status. A reasonable period shall be allowed for the submission of outstanding declarations by the end of February with the beginning of March. Also important is that the alternate members of the collective bodies submit statements only when they have actually participated in the collective body. This is also demonstrated by the Minutes. Article 2 regulates the content of the declaration. It is important to amend, adding that the initial statement of assets includes the value of all existing assets, as well as the way in which they are acquired. In other words, when you have the first picture of the statement of assets, you have to say "I have it and so I found it". Because every year, journalists take it out, we have the'relevance', but we do not have the'subject'. Here, then, the will of our legislator and government, as in other points of the bill, is apparent, that apart from the "relevant" it is important and researchable. Let's go to the same article in the cash. EUR 15 000 - what we have at home, 'in the mattress', as the world says - is increasing the value of mobile money, for example, paintings, bracelets, from EUR 30,000 to EUR 40,000. Therefore, anyone with cash in their homes of over 30,000 euros and a price of over 40,000 euros is obliged to declare it. We have also discussed them in committee. This provision is very fundamental. It is entirely compatible with international practice. It is not contrary to international human rights law, as it preserves secrecy, directors are not declared. and the transparency of the most important operators is increasing. Judges and prosecutors shall also be added to those who have an obligation to declare their debts, but also to any public debts, OTAs, DPRK and Social Security Agency. In paragraph 5 of Article 2, there is a lack of ambiguity with regard to the spouses involved. These are issues that have arisen in the functioning of the Commission. In particular, with Mr Mitsotakis' wife, misinterpretations and ambiguities emerged and are resolved with this bill. He is invited to submit that he is also indebted to him. If he does not cooperate, an administrative procedure is established, he is given a 90-day period and otherwise he himself has personal sanctions. Article 2A is added, regulating an electronic reporting procedure for an asset statement and financial interests. Kobian is this article and very detailed with a whole annex, which says that if you press this button, this painting comes out and this table is attached to the bill and to the FEK, because it was one of the requirements of the Council of State. It's exhausting, then, regulation, but it's nothing to be afraid of. We who have submitted and those who have submitted, because and a number of judges have submitted electronic statements 'from the outset' last year, it is nothing. Just buttons are, boxes are, which, in fact, have automatic connection to TAXIS, so the data takes them easily. This really needs to be done, technology to facilitate and control authorities must be exploited. The composition of the committee is increasing. It increases its membership, which I think we all agree with. Two judiciary officers are added, one being the majority. The Citizens’ Counselor is replaced by the General Inspector for Public Administration, which is also in the explanatory statement, but the Minister for Justice has substantiated it sufficiently in the discussions in the committee and in the case of the audit of judges he chairs a judge, presides from the judiciary. As far as the ratification arm is concerned, there is a clever arrangement not to impose a fine and to collect it with the CED if you are late to submit the declaration. Instead, an electronic paradox is introduced, if you are delaying thirty days 200 euros and delaying more than thirty days 800 euros. We have proposed to the committees and we expect the Minister to announce the reduction of this paradox for uniforms, because it is indeed too high. Let it remain at that height for us - MPs, Prime Minister, Secretary-General, Mayor Ministers, etc. - but for ordinary civil servants, mostly uniforms, who have an obligation to submit a petition, it is important to fall drastically so as to move on to their own income criteria. A subparagraph of Article 7(2) shall also be added to the existing provisions which inaccurate the declaration if the declared assets or their increment is not justified by the lawfully acquired income. Again, therefore, the 'positive' and not just the'relevant' is illuminated. Now, a few words, Mr President, on the amendments that have been tabled. We probably need to come back with our vulnerabilities, because there has been a strong debate on these amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u5	As far as the ministerial amendments are concerned, I propose that the rapporteurs should have the right to a five-minute period. All the rapporteurs, if you wish, will be present on the amendments, after hearing the Ministers first. I'm not talking about the ones that were integrated. I'm talking about what's coming.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u6	Good, Mr. President. So you will allow me to say very briefly about what has already been tabled since the first debate. The extension of the Law of Paradise - Near and the treatment of medical plastics are important amendments. First of all, it's enough with the make news. And stumble to fall, it's Friday's law. Yesterday he made public that a demonstration was arrested in Pagkrati and immediately the media said: "...who had been arrested and released by the law of Friday". From the investigations that took place, it turned out that this man had not even been arrested. He was first arrested. And relatively serious literature or electronic media, they said that he was also released by the Law of Friday. That's enough. Let's not take it any further. But the world must no longer believe anything. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The Minister, but also his colleague and former Minister, Mr Paradefopoulos, mentioned very clearly. I'll just say a word about it to the world that wants its safety. We all want security. It must not be those who are released to be angry about detention conditions in prisons. To be released in ten, twelve or fourteen years, and when it comes out to be a unprotected beast, which will certainly do crimes again or be a calm man, who will be re-entered smoothly in society is key. And the security of society is the human conditions of detention in prisons and their smooth reintegration into society. We agree on that. I have also made a member of the Sanctions Committee and it is a key objective for all of us.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Comrade, you're finishing up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u8	I shall close with two very brief points about forged medical certificates, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. Years now we have seen especially big businessmen and criminals of the 'white collar' who have been in prison with great felony sentences and after a couple of years, and I say a lot, they have come out with medical certificates, and he is sick and he is sick, and of course some people have been after their lives on vacation, at parties and swimming pools. I am not saying that everything was false, but for the first time and on the first occasion of the ENERGA case, which was done for the first time in a thorough investigation and has shown that there were false medical certificates, this phenomenon is being dealt with. I'm closing up with the Municipal Police Amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u9	But close it up, Mr. President. I can't give you any more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u10	Yes, Mr President, and I really do. This is an important issue. It restores an injustice when the then Minister for Administrative Reform Mrs.Mitsotakis abolished overnight the entire Body of Municipal Police. Some of them ended up in the penitentiary and could not get locked up earlier. Now, in addition to the notice that new penitentiary officers will be recruited, this injustice is restored. We have just said, Mr Ministers, and the committee that some minor legislative improvements can be made in order to make use of the time from the submission of applications to the end date, which is 29 March 2019, which is also stated in the amendment, so that the administrative file is ready and does not coincide with their removal from the self-government elections, which may create the same problems or include some prediction that they will be exempted from these impediments if they become involved in this period.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u11	Mr. Sanctuary, you don't have any more time. Close now, please. I've given you four minutes. Shut up!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u12	There is a broad consensus on this bill, and that is in a very positive direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, forty-two students and students and two educational attendants of the 7th Gymnasium Peristeri (second section). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Mr. Karaguni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much, Mr President. And I would ask you, too, to show me a very small tolerance, although we will speak in particular in the debate on the subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u15	You'll have it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, before we enter the first debate on the bill, I, too, will begin with a general comment on justice and how this government understands its independence and how it operates. Now, gentlemen of SYRIZA, when your days are counted, now that your political life is over, you will remain in history as the government with most and most cruel interventions in justice. You will remain in history as the government, which all the judicial associations have denounced is intervening in their work. You will remain in history as the government, whose ministers in a raw and uncovered manner, in a reasonable manner of authoritarian regimes admit that they must force justice to imprison its political opponents to remain in power, the "first time left". We, as a New Democracy, therefore, respond to you. We as a New Democracy and as a government tomorrow will shield justice. We will fully respect its independence and restore the rule of law, as it must operate in a favoured state.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u17	Papantonius, justice...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u18	Papantoniou...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u19	I'll tell you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, did you hear the slightest noise from Opposition, as the majority rapporteur spoke? Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u21	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u22	We will not censor him now of the rapporteur for opposition! Then take the floor, write, say what you want! Calm down!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u23	If we leave SYRIZA's fellow Members free of justice, she knows very well to do her job and work and puts in place those who have broken public money and destroyed the public funds. As high as they are or are, they will be punished for what they have done. That is why I also reply to you about Mr Papantoniou, but also to all the ministers who have been imprisoned on our day and, unfortunately, many - very many - either political persons or other persons are out of prison. I'll see you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u24	Like the Christmasman!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u25	Justice, therefore, does not tolerate any admonition or admonition is needed by any government, which has obviously confused democracy with "Banana". And that's the reality. Ladies and gentlemen, we have analysed this adequately in committee. The draft law, which we are debating, basically has a corrigendum and complementarity in the basic legislation on 'outside', i.e. Law 3213/2003. What I have already said in the debate in the committee responsible, of course, also applies today when the bill is finalized. I shall therefore repeat the two principles, in the light of which the New Democracy is dealing with the issues of the control of the politicians and the other responsible persons of the 'whereabouts', precisely because we are not opportune in the New Democracy. What we are talking about responds to our constant perceptions. So I said - and I repeat - that the New Democracy, as its first principle, wants transparency, wants clarity on these sensitive issues. And he wants all this, not only because he believes it, but because he has been the party over time, who has proved himself and his members have nothing to fear. However, it is clear that while all these objectives are perfectly legitimate, they are of just as important importance that we choose to serve them. In real democracies, the purpose does not justify the means. This was the argument of all kinds of authoritarian regime - not to remember the names - each Stalin, which - to remind you - had as their central slogan the fight against corruption, but, in their case, it was not that their crusade was only ballistic, because first corrupted were themselves and their own surroundings, but mainly because in the name of a good cause the most violent, immoral and anti-democratic means were recruited. So the key in all these cases is to balance the purpose and the means. Yes to transparency, yes to control, yes to responsibility, but not to means and manners, which make the country a jungle, because of course if one starts in the name of a good purpose to be disproportionately recruited within, then nothing guarantees that extremity will not give birth to a second and a third. In conclusion, then, we have a problem, to say it in legal terms. A balance of interests between conflicting interests and transparency and control, but at the same time respecting individual rights and not changing the country into an endless and endless court or much worse - so that I do not use an expression that I used in committee - so that we do not change, without understanding it, in a country of the Stazi type. In this sense, therefore, because we in the New Democracy believe in transparency and control of the people who exercise power and do not make discounts, we will say 'NAH' in the bill under discussion, we will express our strong objections to the debate in question, because, as I said before, the means used by this bill to serve the otherwise correct purpose of control and transparency are disproportionate, because they bear in them precisely the element of exaggeration. In fact, instead of correcting excesses of an already, unfortunately, excessive system, we are simply stepping up them. Before I say specifically what these excesses are and where the analogy to the weighting of interests, for which I have spoken to you, I would like to make a comment. Especially because the framework of control that we are discussing, namely, the issue of 'from the outset', is primarily about people who exercise direct or indirect power in the country and precisely because we have created a country where, often, while having good aims, the means we choose to serve them are disproportionate to the citizen, I understand that we should not give the impression that we want other measures and other weightings for ourselves. Take the issue of combating tax evasion for example. That's right, but with what means? With the informants, to remember older times - and not much older - Stazi type, as I mentioned, proposed by Mr Varoufakis? Do you remember those ridiculous things you've never denied, and then you've been discussing them quite seriously? I can remember unreserved tax cases for decades, so that any sworn official can use such a framework for his own benefit. Fortunately, of course, the Council of State had its brakes safely and overturned this unacceptable situation. What can I say also about the legislation, which was recently passed and which stipulates that a citizen, when going to the bank and transferring an amount of EUR 1,000 from his own account to his own account, will he be controlled as supposedly suspected of money laundering from an illegal activity? What can I say? So the citizen, who is experiencing these and, of course, in no way wants a state, which some diligent tax fighters are stealing, feels that for such a good purpose we have, unfortunately, created a life-threatening society. And since he is rightly feeling this, now that I am saying the same thing about the bill under discussion, he may feel again - rightly, as I have said before - that since he has these excesses himself, how much we should probably be in power. That's right. The citizen will be right to think about that. However, what is not always clear is that while the verbal excesses concerning the citizen simply make the life of the inviolable person, the auditing excesses concerning people who exercise power have a much more important side effect, ladies and gentlemen, that is to say, that they can act as a pretext for preventing and preventing politicians, judges, journalists and so many others who are obliged to carry out their duties, in accordance with their conscience, fearing a spacious and excessive institutional framework, in which they can become suspect acts that they have never committed. You, gentlemen of SYRIZA, know the method. SYRIZA is not a craftsman, but a mud industry. He threw out a story of "NOVARTIS" with some clues, with some shadows and some suspicions, with hooded witnesses, with the FBI, something that will do just in a spacious and relaxed context, which everyone is suspicious of until the case is cleared up - I am not talking about this case, but I am saying in general about the institutional framework that you bring - it will be about a decade and in the end, nothing will be found, but in the meantime, the blackmail of the political, judge and other debtors involved will work well. This case - and it will remind me of you too - will remind me of Mr Laliotis's case with the alleged offshore companies of the late Constantine Mitsotakis, which had collapsed in the courts, but of course, the mud and the political blackmail have worked for years and years. So I ask: is such a spacious and far-reaching system 'from where you come from,' who guarantees that it will not work as a promotional industry, to force people who exercise public authority, so that they do not do what they are not pleasurable? Who guarantees that such a system of excesses and overpower, which, on the basis of vague findings, will not put the basis for extortion of a public person, judges, who deal with critical cases, tax cases, which are called upon to target politicians or others, who are not excellent, policies which are lacking in critical votes, one or the other vote, from the election of the President of the Republic, for example, until the vote on a crucial national issue, have to come to that line and vote, because otherwise there may be a problem. In other words, what I'm telling you with a word is that the fight against corruption is sacred. However, when the means they use for this purpose are excessive, then the fight against corruption itself bears out. And because we are talking specifically about 'possibly', not only can corruption be born, but on condition that political diversion can also be created. That is the spirit in which we say, as I said before, 'NEI' in the draft legislation under discussion, but we will specifically express our objections to the actual debate. Because, as I have said, we do not act on criteria of populism, we have had to impose transparency on politicians or judges, but in fact, with the backwardness of attempting to control them in the real exercise of their powers and, if necessary, find pretexts to stop them, to prevent them from blackmail. To say this in another wording, it is not important for such sensitive legislation to have provisions with vague meanings, such as the findings - I said before - with a 20-year deadline and with a concentration of powers on potential politically controlled persons. I am obviously referring to Article 4(5) of the draft law, where the deadline for conducting the check in five years may be extended in the event of a sign of criminal offences until such time as they have been breached. In other words, in order to be able to understand from my fellow Members, but above all from the people who are following us, the five years can be twenty years and the person responsible will in fact have a break in control over the whole life, or at least a very long time, because there are evidence of a criminal offence. I have told you in committee that all this is not only legally paradoxical, but also legally dangerous and indeed insulting human rights and any concept of the rule of law. As the article stands, the competent audit authority with a legal paradox can also have, for twenty years, any debtor. The most important thing, ladies and gentlemen, with which I shall conclude, Mr President, I have analysed it, and I have insisted in particular on the committees: we are talking about electronic deposit and a detailed account of all the assets of the debtors. You understand what that means. We will create the data bank today, without having truly ensured, but only theoretically, the security of this data from intervention, deformation, interception and even deletion. In other words, we create the data bank without the protection body. So what is required? We have also told you in the committees: an appropriate logistical infrastructure and a scientifically trained and qualified staff. If you tell me that the existing safeguard mechanisms and bodies are sufficient, I will remind you that we responded to the committees, and colleagues told you, that there is the Decision 98/2013 of the Personal Data Protection Authority which imposed a fine on the General Secretariat of Information Systems, because all taxpayers in Greece for the years 2000 to 2012 had been treated illegally by third parties, which was due to the lack of appropriate security measures to prevent, detect and investigate incidents of breach of personal data. So you understand that all the building of the bill is in the air if there's no such safeguard. We tell you something simple, Mr Minister and colleagues of the SYRIZA: get out or rectify these non-serious and exceptionally misunderstanding articles. Our commitment to the Greek people, because we do not have any illusions, is that soon, as soon as we become a government, we will bring in an institutional framework for 'from now on', which will ensure the control and transparency of the assets of public officials and generally those who have a role in public life, but with respect for the law, the Constitution, judicial authority and individual rights. To let citizens know that we will shield their rights and not turn their lives and activity into a jungle and witch hunt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top sixteen students and schoolchildren from the 6th Municipal School of Congregation. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, there have been thirteen colleagues, other than rapporteurs and parliamentary representatives. With a clipboard calculation we made, in about seven hours or so the debate may have been completed. So, in my view, it can be completed today around 6:00 p.m. and 19:00 p.m. However, as far as the process goes, we see it. The most likely is that we won't need a meeting tomorrow. Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou, a special speaker from the Democratic Association, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express my deepest satisfaction at the fact that the majority rapporteur in his first comment was placed and expressed his confidence in the independence of justice, while saying that this confidence states that there is no hostility between his party and justice, which would be unprecedented, of course. On the other hand, he said that unreservedly justice should proceed to judicial investigations, to make its findings, to go ahead with convicts or expropriatory decisions. And he said that on the occasion of the temporary imprisonment of the former Minister of State, Mr Papantoniou, saying that we will find out how the country has arrived here. In fact, we have been in the first place discussing the question of the committee of inquiry. You remember my position here, too. I said at the time that justice is the only one who can investigate everything, find everything, free of any manipulation and guidance, and on the other hand, free of any connection in particular with a executive which, over a decade, has nothing to do with our space. But what matters today is that we do not need - if some people think it is appropriate, rather they are concerned - to express our confidence in justice again, because justice when it is not manipulated and when there are no policies, and it knows and can do its job. Therefore, away from me any thought that we need to confirm both our confidence in the independence of justice, ladies and gentlemen, and our confidence in the decisions of justice. In this context, we are also talking today about transparency, accountability of the political system, about a better system, which will enable the citizen and everyone to be controlled, for those who have managed public affairs. In this context, however, Ministers, there is something that raises a huge issue not only for the functioning of justice, but also for the functioning of the institutions of the Ministerial Council, the Government, the House itself. When we talk about transparency and accountability, I think that you did not notice the fact that yesterday Mr Kotzias made dramatic revelations about what you discussed at the Ministerial Council. To refresh everyone's memory in relation to what Mr Kotzias said, which is unprecedented and related to our bill, it has something to do with what we are discussing today, because otherwise I would not mention, I am reading to you. Mr Kalleros, Minister, I think you were at the Ministerial Council when your colleague Mr. Kammens attacked Mr. Kotzia for the secret funds. The complaint about financing by businessman George Soros was about the government as a whole and not just himself, says Mr. Kotzias, in particular, denounces that at the Ministerial Council - I read to you - Mr. Kammenos interrupting the Prime Minister said that "George Soros is financing the Greek Government to buy foreigners". That was heard by the Ministerial Council. Mr. Kotzias continues, who visits Crete and with Crete all the channels to repeat this complaint: "No one answered the government for this complaint, which includes all the members of the Ministerial Council, except me. No Minister, no Prime Minister. In a government that tolerates infringing its policy and the violation being covered by a ton of mud, I cannot participate." This is the position of Mr Kotzia, which I am presenting for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou, presents for the minutes the statement referred to above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It makes me very surprised that there was no reaction. So many ministers were inside. There was no reaction from ministers, Minister of Justice, who you are here today, but you were on the Ministerial Council to ask Mr Kammenos who are the recipients of these funds, Mr Kalogerou. Mr Papagelopoulos, which you have often referred to transparency, did not ask Mr Kammenos to tell us how these funds from Soros - as he denounces to a Ministerial Council, which is a very serious instrument to say arrows - which came to Greece, were used to buy foreigners, which can be used, if you like, not just for simple criminal investigation, but leading to a Special Court? And there was no reaction from your colleague, Mr Kotzias, or from the Prime Minister, from what your colleague, Mr Kotzias, has said. I think, however, that because we are talking about transparency and accountability today, there are many other things that are undisturbed of us for the inertia of the political leadership of the Ministry of Justice, even on issues that concern the hard core of its responsibilities and not its involvement in the Ministerial Council. Indeed, we are all talking about it today - I have heard from my fellow Members - and we have been discussing for four days four meetings of the committee on transparency and accountability in political life for those responsible for managing public affairs. At the same time there are shocking complaints and revelations that afflict the prestige of justice and show how deeply its function has been undermined by some institutional factors. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot do that we have not seen, that we have not heard these complaints and have seen or heard hypocritical declarations of independence of the justice and agony of all about how this independence will not be offended by anyone. Finally, Minister, I address Mr Kalogeros, because he has the responsibility of this ministry - Mr. Paulakis was right when he said that you would put some prisons in order to win the elections and get real power and, as he said, you should push justice to achieve results, without delays and without a 'high culture'. He was right, perhaps, when he said 'the meaning'. These days we have all understood what Mr Paulakis meant, who otherwise is in six and a system of hybrid of justice. He meant rather what reveals the environment now of the Prosecutor's office, Mr. Ryku. In the past, she had done so in writing, and I believe that in the next few weeks - I have no information, no assessment - she will continue the complaints in the same way. Then we'll probably have to see Mr. Polakis' stories about prison again. Mr Minister of Justice, if you are kind enough to listen to me in this, what does Mrs Ryku reveal - or her environment, however, have been published - and there has been no reaction on your part as the guardian of the functioning of justice? Ms Ryuku says that it opens the door to the revelations of a gentleman, who has been denounced by her second term of office as Prosecutor of Corruption Crimes - second term, it is timelylyly described - when he himself, taking advantage of his political power, in a 'pimpage' style, indicated to him that specific critical cases should be dealt with, demanding that he other times, he says, immediately engage in criminal prosecution and, when she objected that there were no conditions for her legal exercise, he urgently and with unbearable pressure he said 'exercise her and let them go below to get rid of them'. In other cases, which he wanted to serve, he once again demanded that it be put back in a file of these proceedings and now. If, Minister, in any European democracy - and forgive me for doing this - there was a complaint of circles from a prosecutor who served in the Prosecutor of Corruption and heard a Minister hear that there were political interventions with great political power in justice, so that justice can be handled and criminal prosecutions carried out while there were no evidence or - something that is not better - to silence certain cases, so that there is no continuity in the proceedings and in criminal investigation, what do you say it would do? Would she call Mrs. Riku to know who her circles are? He was gonna call...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u28	It's not the D.A.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u29	No, but he has the political responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u30	Mr Papatheodorou, not dialogue with the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u31	I respect that, Mr President. I won't have a dialogue. So I say to you that it has the political responsibility of the Ministry when there is a prosecutor who says that 'political factor' - and not a judiciary - 'was blackmailing me'. It's about intimidation and blackmail. Isn't the Minister of Justice interested? So what I'm wondering is, first of all, what is this factor with the political power that threatened and blackmailed prosecutors like Ms. Ryku, who led judicial investigations, which required the post of the archive, which was operating in the judiciary - as he was described as the environment - where he had built an outlawed circuit? That's what this is! This is an outlawing circuit which had a political starting point. What is this political factor? What interests does it serve? And who does the political factor really account for? Because he doesn't work alone. She's answering someone. Who's he answering to? His minister? Is he accountable to the Prime Minister? What interests does it serve? Does it have an institutional role? And here's the thing, Minister: What do you do when you hear all these questions, even now? Because if you do not want to have the role of the prosecutor, you can have the role of the minister and since there are these complaints, tell us what someone is doing to see these complaints. By who? By a prosecutor who resigned and in writing denounced such situations, he simply did not describe them in such detail. I have the impression that the answers will come very quickly in the future. Why if we see that these complaints are correct, then - as we all understand - the next stage in what is political? At political level the next stage, if we have closed our eyes, is taking responsibility, as the Prime Minister says. It's taking responsibility! The taking over of responsibility means, in this case, that inaction is unjustified, so something should be done. In the background, however, there is a court investigation and, of course, in these cases, as the law describes it, Special Court. Why, then, does it not surprise us that these complaints have been made in such a public way and indeed in the promise of more information and when the mouth open? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, please be indulgent for one and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u32	Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u33	But what concerns me most, Minister, because we are talking about transparency, accountability, cultural change in the political system, about another responsibility which politicians must have in relation to the management of public affairs, is that, while all this is being heard, all of this has left you indifferent, completely unjust, as if these complaints were to be directed at another country, another justice, another system. And I'll say this, so you don't think he has any reference to this person. Away from me, that kind of criticism. Mrs Ryku says in her report that complaints have been made lately - and the first and the second time - during her second term. Three ministers handled these cases. I'm not talking about Deputy Minister permanent. I'm saying three ministers handled these cases. All three of you found nothing on the epilepsy, or did you find any justification on what Mrs. Ryku says? And I say this clearly, with the freedom that this very fact has no precedent in any country and you are not going to see it again, for a very clear reason: because here with your omission what you are doing, it is just to cover up these complaints so that you do not look for them. There's no more reason. It's not like you didn't hear. You heard me. I do not think any of you, ladies and gentlemen, have any objections to what I shall call on you. Are you going to look into this environment now for the player with political power threatening and blackmailing judges, judges and prosecutors? I have the impression that the case will be 'dashed'. Then no one can be covered. And in this case we believe that this case is the beginning of a huge scandal that will lead not only people, not just political actors, to the government itself and what remains of it. As for the draft law, in principle we had voted positive. As for the amendments, as for others, I think I will have time to put myself in my dentistry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u34	The reason is the special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Evangelos Karakostas.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. During the debate on the draft law in Parliament's committee responsible, the Golden Dawn expressed its commitment to put it in plenary after taking into account the institutions' positions and the government's final suggestion. The debate in the committee has helped to raise important issues, mainly inconsistencies and maliciousness of the law, without, of course, the Government intervening in order to correct or recast articles. I must of course point out that the Golden Dawn is the only party in the House that really wants full financial transparency and control over the public life of the place. Economic transparency and without deductions, restrictions and conditions. Of course the other parties, both in the government and in the opposition, will claim that they want the same. But they are now hypocritical, as the last forty-four years of post-multi-population, during which a large number of economic crimes have been committed, which have contributed less or less to the present dramatic economic situation of the country, the victim of which is the great majority of the Greek people, who can rightly qualify as the great mass of the non-preferential Greeks. So he will ask, kindly or not, why are the parties on the so-called democratic arch and the Golden Dawn not? Our answer is clear. Golden Dawn is the only political movement of post-multiple control that has been accepted, without the slightest ink in its finances. In addition, the Golden Dawn has one, according to us nationalists, privilege which cannot be invoked by any of the other parties. What's that privilege? It is the fact that the People's Association - Golden Dawn has not only been controlled by the House, as is the case with the other parties, but it has mainly been audited several times by the competent economic authorities, namely the ILO, without any financial irregularities having arisen. We should also remind our compatriots that all this is happening at a time when the movement of Greek nationalists does not receive any euros of state funding at the same time as the parties of the so-called democratic arc, even those who today represent 1.5%, 1% or less of the Greek people, receive millions of euros of state funding. I have presented this in order to demonstrate that the Golden Dawn really means its political position for full economic control and transparency, and in addition for the people's demand, which is also a permanent and unrealistic position in our movement, that thieves should be taken to prison, contrary to a government whose ministers are addressing major inter-categories for mismanagement of European funds, for which complaints are also being made by the European Union, and with a Professional Response which, as I have said, represents the guardian of economic transparency and control, while he owes about 230 million to the banks, which he will never pay back, of course, by moving this burden on to the hard-tested Greek people. After this required introduction, we are now coming to the vote on the bill. As we have said at committee meetings, the amendments you are proposing are marginal legality. We appreciate that many of them will be judged as unconstitutional, as there is the precedent of the Council of State. In particular, as is known and indeed the reference was made by the police representative at the hearing of the bodies, the decisions of the Council of State Nos 2649/2017 and 3212/2016 annulled the equally recent Joint Ministerial Decisions 1846/2016 and 1069/2017. In other words, they have been abrogated by those government initiatives which were both articulate and sluggish, as we consider to be the present proposal of the draft law. Golden Dawn has no objection to the widening of reporting obligations as defined in Article 1. However, it has serious objections to Article 2, which provides for the introduction of a declaration on cash and mobiles at home: firstly, because it introduces an indirect abolition of all concepts of privacy, since it is certain that a State institution will be allowed to check and whether the declaration is accurate. Secondly, because the assessment of the value of mobiles is absolutely arbitrary and therefore inaccurate and with no intention of stating this, especially if, as we have said above, you do not intend to enter homes and check the reliability of the data. As the representative of the Council of State in the committee has pointed out in this regard, it is completely impossible to determine what cash one holds on 31 December last year, since that cannot be proven anywhere. Thirdly, because those who declare such evidence are becoming the objectives of criminal acts at the same time, since the supposed security of data, which is on electronic platforms, have become a prey to any hackers, not only in Greece but also internationally. It is therefore clear that that provision must either be reformed or completely repealed. Proof of the unacceptable inadequacy of dealing with such an important issue, which concerns corruption in the public sector, is also the issue that has arisen from the positions of operators' representatives regarding their obligation to re-evaluate the 2016 and 2017 declarations in an electronic way this time, and they have already been submitted and, indeed, under the threat of an administrative fine. In Article 4 there are, respectively, three problems: The first is the transfer of declarations of responsibility of the Public Administration Inspectorate, i.e. a senior State official appointed by the Government, so that the impartiality and the control imposed by the Committee of Justice, who control the statements, for no reason, is precarious. The second problem is the dismantling of the five-year time limit for the verification of declarations, since evidence of committed offences which extends five years until the criminal limitation of such offences is laid down. What's he gonna say? By whom will they be haunted and assessed and by what legal instrument? Because criminal proceedings stipulate that the evidence is sufficient to carry out criminal prosecutions, but it is not enough either to change the limitations on the limitations of the offences, but not even - to deprive someone of their rights, far more than the time when they are judged by the prosecutor and the interrogator on a case-by-case basis and not by an immaterial committee. Therefore, on this point too, due to apparent unconstitutionality, there must be clarification or complete abolition of the amendment. The third problem concerns the horizontal access of the institutions to databases and data which makes it precarious to control the legality of the institutions, as well as to the information in which the auditors have access together with any malicious third party. We therefore believe that this point needs further clarification and change. Article 6 confirms the extension of the five-year limitation because it is expressly stated that a filed case may be recovered. This fact, with our previous objections, demonstrates that this provision establishes insecurity of law, and even without explicit conditions, as required by the Constitution. In our view, this provision is also unconstitutional, and that is why it will be suppressed. With regard to the now provided for in Articles 7 and 8, the position of the Golden Dawn is that criminal sanctions in the specific cases should be particularly severe and, of course, extremely dissuasive. Clearly, we do not disagree with the amount of fines and penalties, but we are asking for the possibility of effective control of declarations, which, given their volume, are impossible to deal with. We reiterate here that paragraph 3 of Article 8 leaves a loophole in order to judge even unpunished the unlawful behaviour of a spouse liable in a statement of the property situation invoked by negligence. In this way, the alleged strict and dissuasive nature of the sanctions threatened is effectively annulled and the road opens to circumvent the existing legislation by means of statements made by the spouses is open. With regard to Article 13, which is also the incorporation of Amendment 176/157 in order to extend the favourable arrangements of the so-called "Golden Dawn" Act for the decongestion of prisons, the Golden Dawn remains unmoved by stating clearly and unequivocally opposite. In fact, during the debate in the committee, we described the Law of Friday with the chairman of the committee as reproaching us that we are allegedly targeting political persons, of course reproducing media friendlyly to the government in order to create impressions. From this, then, Stepma the Golden Dawn insists on declaring the infamous law and its beneficial criminal provisions, and its prolongation becomes criminal, because it is bred in the blood of hundreds of innocent Greek citizens, who were either murdered or suffered terror in the hands of unscrupulous criminals, who move freely thanks to the Government Circus SYRIZA - ANEL. Although the arrangements introduced by Article 14 are positive, the question arises as to which prisoners will be implemented and whether they will in the end have been detained in prison for a short time to be released because the famous Paradise law and what is stated in the previous article, that is to say, Article 13 of this draft law, has essentially made the detention shops of the country in transit. As far as the amendments are concerned, we will vote in favour of Amendment No 1777/158, which increases by two hundred and fifty-eight organic detention shops in order to provide a sufficient service to the detention shop in Drama. We shall vote'residents' in Amendment 1780/160, which regulates the transfer to the services of the Municipal Police of the former municipal police, who until now have been serving in detention stores, and in particular the procedure and timetable for submitting applications. We shall, of course, vote against Amendment No 1786/163 in which the candidates for the post of nurses and other staff in public hospitals and other health structures, on the grounds of experience, which has been acquired as a result of pre-services in corresponding posts, are included. And if even for nurses one could accept that the existing experience contributes to the more effective exercise of their duties, the question is as follows: What is the other than nursing staff whose experience will also be mobilized? Why, for example, should a clerk or secretary or an administrative hospital officer be directed to the detriment of another candidate, who may also have more formal qualifications? It is obvious to us that this arrangement is rosphetological and photographic and paves the way for client-challenges with party-matters, the well-known "left-blocked dogs", in view of the forthcoming elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, fifty two students and students and four educational attendants from the 3rd Municipal School of Melissa. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We continue with the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Manolis Synchronakis. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law amends the existing framework for the statements of the so-called 'outside'. The main points of the amendments concern the introduction of new categories of person liable to an asset statement, such as the inclusion of judicial and public prosecutors in the category of political persons, the assimilation of judicial and public prosecutors to civil servants and the obligation, inter alia, to include in the declarations their credit obligations to banks, legal and natural persons. It also includes tightening up criminal and other sanctions against offenders, extending the scope and scope of the control of declarations, introducing a new system in an electronic way instead of a form for submitting declarations. The Communist Party of Greece, while maintaining any reservations it has expressed in the past, will, in principle, vote in favour of the draft law and all the articles it contains. For Article 5, we have a label - a reservation, which we made at the committee meeting at second reading, on how the members of the Audit Committee are chosen. On the basis of Article 5, the members of the committee, which are judges, will no longer be chosen as with the current provision by the respective Supreme Judicial Councils of the relevant courts, but by their Presidents, who are ultimately appointed as President by the respective government. And the Deputy Prosecutor of the Ice Bay will be appointed by the Prosecutor of the Ice Arena, who is also appointed by the respective government. We believe that the current method of selecting the Committee on Budgetary Control should remain the same to date. From there and after the question which is rightly raised is whether these measures are sufficient to combat the phenomena of corruption and black money, which are increasing? In fact, on the basis of this draft law, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, the New Democracy, the other urban parties are now finding out the egg of Columbus, unfolding a hypocritical controversy on the issues of corruption, black money, the role of justice and control by political power, and others for which the first and foremost responsibility lies with these parties that alter government power, phenomena which are the other side of the anti-popular policy that burdens the people. That's why the fight between them is constantly upgraded. They aim to disorientate the people in order to hide their strategic agreement and commitment to imperialist organizations, to maintain delusionality that can, in the context of capitalism, be a philosophical development, a fair tax system, a fight against corruption, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, the JRC, knowing the seriousness and the consequences on the people of corruption and black money, is following this issue, is taking part in the various parliamentary committees, is curbing them, denounces them. At the same time, however, it concerns the essential issue, the operative cause which the other parties do not even touch, whether in the context of the operation of the existing system it is possible only by such arrangements to deal effectively with corruption. The Government's claim that exit from the crisis is impossible to achieve if the system of inter-corruption is not resolutely unresolved, which is a permanent inclination from the time the crisis broke out, in our view, obscures us with the truth. This claim actually argues that there can be a healthy capitalism, indiscriminate, without crises. That's the great lie. The crisis didn't just cause corruption and scandals, some people didn't eat the money, so the economy did. The crisis is found in the DNA of capitalism, due to its own basic function, production for profit, competition, the anarchy of production, which produces and produces corruption. Indestructible capitalism, however, cannot exist without the scandal of the scandals, the capitalist exploitation of capitalism, which is also the cause of poverty, unemployment, the broken-up industrial relations, the attack on rights and conquests, wars and refugee. The examples are mostly. Is it not scandalous that the more than 50 special tax exemptions received and enjoyed by shipowners are retained by all governments and that the state has less revenue than shipowners than the paradoxes of immigrants? Is this timeless behaviour of the governments over the years against big capital not one of the factors of the current situation? Is it not scandalous when the tax rates of the major business groups are reduced, at the same time as the tax evacuation of the populace? Is it not scandalous, for example, now, because of the new fall in the shares of the banks on the stock market, for the government to prepare a new provocative package of government support for the banks, when state spending on education, health and social security are being cut? Is it not scandalous to pass laws that reduce wages and pensions, increase the taxation of the populace and adapt labour relations to the needs of capitalist profits? Isn't it scandalous to separate enrichment in legal and illegal, in legal, consecrated theft and illegal? Honest and healthy capitalism is nothing but the system where profits, the intransigent wealth of the few are the other aspect of insubstantial poverty and tolerance of many. The more the hideous face of the farm system reveals the greater effort made by the civilian staff to convince the people that it is possible to make this rotten system fairer, more virtuous, more user-friendly. The experience itself has confirmed that in a society that runs the risk of the interests of the few who legally interact above the table, it is legal to develop their transactions under the table. So-called corruption is the necessary complement to the legitimate pursuit of capitalist profit. The people therefore have to draw these conclusions that they face daily in their lives, the biggest scandals, the greatest avalanches that come in the form of avalanches as a follow-up to the previous ones and concern insurance, taxation, red loans, all the anti-grassroots measures that put tombstones in rights, the already extinct people's income, in their own life. Any measures that may be generally correct are not sufficient to cut the umbilical cord that connects corruption and black money to the hunting of profit. They give the impression that fighting them is simply a matter of political will. That is why everyone stresses the need to strengthen and improve the functioning of the control mechanisms of the State and justice, leaving the greenhouse intact within which these phenomena thrive. The people are wisely looking at the various international experiences that confirm the results of clearance operations. One such thing in Italy is the so-called 'Cathedral Hands' that brought Berlusconi. It's like Lernaia Hydra. An incident of corruption is dealt with and ten gets out, precisely because the womb that gives birth to them remains untouched. There has been a lot of talk in the committees about its justice and independence. Justice, ladies and gentlemen, it will never be independent of the governments concerned, nor in fact nor in procedural terms. In fact, because it is obliged to apply, to interpret the laws decided by the executive and voted in Parliament and in procedural terms, because the leadership of justice is appointed by the respective government with what this means in practical terms. Ladies and gentlemen, the amended arrangements set out in this draft law on 'whereabouts' do not effectively address the problem. There is no possibility of treating dirty money under conditions of free movement of capital, namely by exporting funds, placing them on financial products to foreign banks, tax havens, and within the European Union, which have been multiplied, but also elsewhere. The regulations on the free movement of capital and the existence of extraterritorial companies do not allow substantial checks on what assets the persons liable have. The answer we don't give is life itself. On several occasions, the JRC has called for more substantial measures to be taken in order to make a more effective control of the "underground". We are talking about measures that abolish all the privileges of capital and its various parts. The other parties, however, reject these proposals. We will do the same in this draft law independently - I repeat - from the vote of the present. The JRC proposes banning the operation of so-called overseas, offshore, companies, control over the import and export of funds from the country, abolishing all secrets, and banking, tax and business and commerce. We would remind you that tax and bank confidentiality have only been lifted with regard to the prosecution authorities. The question arises: why do the other parties reject the JRC's proposals? They reject them, they say, with the claim that they are in conflict with the rules of the free market. Indeed, the JRC's proposals are contrary to the Maastricht Treaty, which provides for the protection of the free movement of capital, namely the protection of large capital, business groups. They run counter to the rules of capitalist growth, capitalist profitability and the competitiveness of business groups. So the margin of any control mechanism is very specific. Unfortunately, however, these proposals - I repeat - constantly fall into the denial of the other parties. For the JRC, the only solution to these corruption phenomena is to change the way society is organised, which will not be profit-driven. Coming to the amendments, our Party tabled an amendment concerning the abolition of paragraph 3 of Article 242 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, that is to say the compulsory characterisation of crimes committed through the press, and we call on the Minister to accept it. There is no reason to have the paragraph of this article anymore. We have two reasons for tabling this amendment. The first reason is more typical, but it is of particular value. Previously, there was an obligation in the Constitution to declare the crimes committed through the press as self-defense and to follow the Code of Criminal Procedure. With the amendment of the Constitution since 2001, such a provision no longer exists. Therefore, the joint legislature is not bound by the Constitution, as before. There is the well-known provision of the Code of Criminal Procedure, Article 242(3), which provides for compulsoryity. In other words, this is an anachronistic provision and it is inconsistent with the Constitution. The relevant article of the Code of Criminal Procedure should therefore be completely repealed. The second reason and the most essential thing, which relates to the first, is that this initiative to table this amendment on our part is to protect journalists who are the target, the victims of arrests and persecutions. They're not the owners who are being persecuted, they're the journalists. I am referring to the criminal aspect of these cases, because there is urbanity. Journalists work with a work relationship, such as the rest of the workers, and follow the line of owners, but they are the ones who are subject to arrests, persecutions and all that is relevant. We therefore believe that they should be protected. There is no reason for them to be charged with such persecution. Of course, the media, journalists must follow journalists' ethics, exercise responsible criticism, but we also consider it necessary - and we are therefore tabling this amendment - that any problems are not solved through prosecutions and arrests of journalists, but by a public complaint, political controversy and criticism. The Courts, in the JRC's view, are not the means of resolving the political differences in substance. Finally, with regard to the amendment on the mobilisation of auxiliary staff in hospitals, tabled by the Minister of Health, to say: The explanatory statement mentions the need to have qualified staff due to the particular nature of the health system, and that is why the existence of experience must be provided. The particular nature of the public health system, among other things, is that there are thousands of new jobs in nursing and other personnel at all levels and units of the health system and many more when compared to the modern popular needs that are certainly not reflected in hospitals and health centres. The Government invokes a tender for the recruitment of minimum permanent staff that it will not add, but will in fact replace part of the staff retired, i.e. the government's announcement corresponds to the policy of maintaining poverty in public health units in terms of their staffing. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will conclude in a minute. If the government were to cover even some of the shortcomings, it is certain that the AACC would have been incomprehensible, since all graduate nurses, midwives and other sanitary workers would have to be hired and employed. For example, only to serve with the necessary nursing staff and to open the about one hundred and fifty closed beds of ICU, the two-year graduates of the School of Nursing of Heraklion Crete should be recruited. The government's verbalism of alleged exit from the memoranda means, at best, implementing the policy, an intake for each departure, that is, essentially, maintaining the present disgraceful situation in the staffing of public health units. Instead of modulating popular needs and priorities, the government is making massive recruitments of health personnel to meet the needs, essentially using moleculosis as a filter and criterion for recruitment corresponding to drops in the ocean, while at the same time maintaining and extending, of course, the status of rotation. We have repeatedly proposed - and I shall end with this - the immediate permanentisation without conditions and conditions of all health workers working as a service provider, as well as the mass recruitment of other staff to fully meet the enormous needs of public health units. On this basis, the JRC will vote'residents' in this amendment. The rest of us have spoken to the committees and, if necessary, we will speak in our denology. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u38	Minister, with reference to your previous term of office as Secretary of the Ministerial Council, I would like to say that three ministerial amendments have so far been tabled. I hope we're done here with three.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u39	It's two or three.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u40	They're irrelevant to your ministry. Now they're here. They will be distributed and you will see them, but we will not take them until 19.00 in the afternoon and every hour a Minister will remember to bring an amendment, because I will not accept them. Three is fine, because they were announced yesterday. I'm just letting you know. We proceed with Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos, a special speaker of the Independent Greeks. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. It took 15 years to happen what happened yesterday, the detention of the former Minister of National Defence, Giannos Papantoniou. I want you to believe me, I never feel well when any citizen, former Minister, anyone, has this fate. And indeed, because I believe that the presumption of innocence applies to everyone, without a hypocritical attitude, I wish for all those who are accused or are to be sentenced to the presumption of innocence and to be justified if they think they should be justified. It's my thing, though. I was listening to the Special Speaker of PASOK - KINAL now said - who felt the need to bring him back to the Ministerial Council and not a word about a fact that you want - you do not want the first news. First news is that the former Minister of National Defence was convicted, and he and his wife. I would also like to remind you here that it is not just the former Minister. Yannis Sbokos is a prisoner. Mr Akis Tsohazopoulou - and rightly so, because he spends a great year of his age - was released for health reasons. Let me also remind you that Mr. Mandelis is also doomed. Not with heavy sentences, but they are. One on this side would expect an elementary self-criticism. It's not bad, it can happen to anyone and not everyone is responsible for what happened to this party, but if you want to have basic credibility, I think you should start with a self-criticism. I also listened with great attention to the Special Speaker of the Officerial Response, referring with aggressive tones to the following two things, that we will shield justice, that you are counting days, as he has said, for granted. I will remind him in a sober way that this will be decided by the Greek society, Mr Karagunis, and no one else. You won't decide. He has also called for legal associations. We shield justice and, indeed, by speaking, he said, 'Do not interfere in justice'. I will not say my personal views, but I will call for facts to see who is intervening in justice and what exactly judicial associations have done at very important times in public life. I would like to remind you, therefore, that in the case of Mr Fruzis, who knows that he has a case for active bribery as head of the NOVARTIS, he has had a struggle at that time - and fourteen signatures have even been signed - so that the case does not go to the relevant corruption court, Mrs Toulupaki - I will say a few things - on the grounds that he will be better dealt with by the appeal and that he will go to a higher degree. The same view of 'consummation' - the word in introductory terms, to see who is intervening in justice - had the following two: the Secretary-General of the Association of Prosecutors - I do not want to say their names - and a consultant who was on the board of this Union. They argued that it should be removed from Mrs Toulupakis. In his honor, the then head of the Athens Court of Appeal, Mr. Kanellepoulou, explained to them that with the new law the case can be left and must be dealt with quickly - the "NOVARTIS" case - in the corruption prosecutor. Here I want to remind my dear friends that you know, it's very easy if the 20 prosecutors propose and collect signatures, indeed he can leave. But that's not what's happened. Why is that? Why did they stop? I would also like to say here that the Disciplinary Board of the Ice Bay, which has heard these interventions, has to leave the Prosecutor of Corruption and go to this year, has reminded them that another judicial officer who has done the same thing about the case of the late Vigeopoulos and has explained to them under law that this case belongs to Mrs Tulupaki. In what mud was eaten by Mrs Tulupaki, who was elected by 10-1 and unanimous decisions, I do not want to mention now. That is my answer to Mr Karagunis for who is intervening in justice. But I want to get out of there and go a little bit further. I dream of the moment - I dream of it, I tell you directly - where we are all unanimously here together, not only through this bill, we will see that there is a fight against tax havens. I want to, I'm waiting to see it. I really tell you that if I was told "you have an offshore or a offshore," I'd be ashamed here even to see you. I'm dreaming, too, at another time. What's this bill doing, we say here. I dream of the moment when the 'producers', which for many, the word says nothing, for me as a doctor, says nothing, but for those who know it, someone will control it. How can an amount of 10,000 euros finally come out of 1 million? Incredible things! I would also like to remind you - and I do not forget that we have a bill on 'outside' - that the bride in the 'LEHMAN BROTHERS' crisis, the 10 trillion people paid two social groups: the middle class and the working class. The rich have become richer and poorer and more poorer. I will repeat for once the OXFAM poll, where eight people on the planet - eight, as you say, I can name them - have assets as much as the poorest half part of the planet, the three and a half billion. If this thing - and we're not talking about injustice, we're talking about perversion - we're all sitting there looking at it comfortably, fine, we're doing nothing. Is this bill all over? One step is taking. Can I tell you something? I always listen with respect to what the JRC says. I may have my disagreements, but on too many points I think he's right. It's just another thing I want and how I manage to do it. I believe that this bill comes, not to solve the issue of tax evasion definitively, because that means 'outside', but to put a few stones in it. What I told you, she's doing almost everything. I want you to remember one thing here. A small, but there is a new story is that the possibility of withdrawing a case has been filed - listen a little - when there are indications of non-submission or submission of an inaccurate statement as specified, etc. If that were the case in the past - but you did not do anything to do with it - Mr Papantoniou would not have left for fifteen years without anything to do. It's something that goes through with this bill. Also, if the special committee within the House decided, as you very much wanted, to send the case to a special court from here, from the House, and it goes on to say, this story would have been a long way off. The Committee's contribution was decisive for those who at least lived in close proximity what this committee did for Mr Papantoniou's scandal. I would also like to say that we all know what is happening in public administration. We all say we don't have good public administration, so I don't want to use any more heavy terms. I mean. How many years did it have to go through to be obliged to “from now on” and the directors of the ministries and publishers of everything, literature, web media, etc? How many individual publishers have we seen being funded - have we never learned why - through CEDEFOP? They took money - he says - for communication. What communication? Since there is legislation that forbids it. Messages related to public health are not paid anywhere in the world. Explain why you were paying for them by 2015? So, should they not tell us where they took money and how they used it? Shouldn't the Heads of Forestry, Forestry, the makers of decisions be included? Not to tell you now how what happened in Mandra. How did these people build? Where did they get permission from? So do we have to do the wrong thing to legislate later? I'm just saying Greek to get to know what this bill does. And I said no one triumphants again. It's a step. Leave the famous arbitrary appeals. Is it wise, then, to impose on those who decide on arbitrary things? Do you want a lot of brains? As regards the co-existence agreement, I would like to say: do we believe in equality? The pact, in my opinion, is correct. I voted for it. Shouldn't the same apply to the husband or wife and to the person who has signed a cohabitation agreement? I don't think anyone's gonna argue with that. We either have a parity or we don't. And that's very important. I would like to focus a little on this, because once there has been a great noise and, indeed, a strange noise: In the dimensions of a husband. I don't mean anything. I think, however, that we should be more careful about the "substantiated" of the spouses. And I'm stopping here. I think we all agree in this Chamber that something could be planned, etc. Does it still need a lot of philosophy and a lot of thought to realize that there are credit institutions that know the lawlessness? There are financial institutions that know the illegality. They have an obligation, without delay, to inform the competent bodies. So, do we have to introduce it now, in this bill, and say that these people are being imprisoned? Isn't it a step right? Does anyone question that? I come from now on, which, as I have heard, was also mentioned by the spokesman of the JRC: Control bodies when they carry out inspections - you will know - until first they had bank secrecy. Someone went to check and ran into stockbrokers, tax secrets, business secrets. Mercy! You want to hit the tax evasion, and you have classified? What's that thing? So does this government have to come in to establish self-evident? I don't want to get into any procedural details. But I want - and it is worth it - to consult on something. I am a fanatical one - forgive me the extreme expression - of e-government. You know, in Belgium the taxpayer with the tax office never comes into contact. This is not only the case in Belgium, but also in other countries, such as the Netherlands and Denmark. It's countries I'm invoking. What prevented you forty years from e-governing, which is the conquest of decades for these countries, from bringing it here as well? And that is a response to such designations as 'users'. That sounds like incredible expressions. First of all, the words are so vulgar that I cannot repeat them. And what I don't hear every day about this government. At least, Mr Karagunis said: 'You have a few days'. He's going to pieces. It's not a terrible thing. It's a terrible thing. It didn't. I hear vulgarity. So I tell you that this government in all areas of e-government is doing it day by day. And he's doing it in this bill too. If you don't know, I'm telling you to find out. And look into this bill and you'll find four, five. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Do I have a minute, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u42	You have, Mr. Papachristopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u43	Thank you. I want to conclude by saying something about the revision of the constitution. I am dreaming that this House unanimously unanimously rejects Rule 86 - who designed it, who maintained it - which covered the remulsions of certain policies and which is a reproach for the parliamentary world, will end with the constitutional review. And I wish that, because I believe it will be a reference, starting point, for a proper opposition. We need the right opposition. I have welcomed positive opposition practices based on evidence. I'm mind-minded, too. I hear it and I hear it again. I believe that Article 86 will unite us in this effort and something good will come morning in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed as follows: I will give Mr Drasakis the floor for five minutes to support his amendment, so that you may also have a picture from now on of the rapporteurs. Then we will conclude the suggestions with Mr. Amyras and Mr. Saridis. I shall then give the floor to Mr Polakis to support his own amendment. Finally, the rapporteurs will be given the floor by Mr Papagelopoulos and then we will be alternated - three or two colleagues, not many - and a parliamentary representative. I think that by 19.00 at the latest we can have completed and tomorrow you can be detached by those who have a role or by parliamentarian or rapporteur. Mr. Drasakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. The amendment concerns two bodies supervised by the Ministry of Economy and Development, the EIBAN and the TANEO. As you are surely aware, ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Economy and Development in recent years has created some financial instruments to meet the needs that the banking system, due to its overloading of red loans, etc., cannot satisfy. These instruments concern programmes for loans to small and medium-sized enterprises, guarantees, bonds for small businesses and the creation of investment funds either with the contribution of the private sector in the country or with funds from other countries, such as a fund that we are creating with the United Arab Emirates. Some of them are already working. Others are being created and are going to work in the next few months. So that the EIB and the TANEO can respond to this increased role, we can make this amendment and give some possibilities: to strengthen them by transferring staff, to have rules of operation, to have a legal service, to have the institutional capacity to create such funds, such as what I said, etc. This is therefore an amendment which, as I said, aims to create the conditions for these two organisations to be upgraded and to play a more active role. All these tools, which, of course, we say now, will be a kind of heritage, a premium and will be incorporated into the development bank when it is created. That is exactly what we are working with the France Development Bank, which is working as our technical consultant on this issue. That is the subject of the amendment and I hope that it will be accepted in common.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u46	Mr Amyras, the special speaker from the river, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the day's news is very clearly the guarding of the Papantoniou couple. Justice knows very well what it is doing and once it has decided, it has done so well. It's not about us. But where we are concerned, when we see justice under pressure, there should be insults, interventions and attacks. And there clearly we all have to take a stand. The judges are used to the interventions, but that's not what it says. It's a problem. So you can only ask the political head of justice for answers to Mrs Ryku's complaints. Mr Papagelopoulos, who was this political pimp who was pressing on her work, Mrs Ryku, from her own leaks, from her circle, to close cases or to file cases or to "run" other cases in the court, while there were no conditions - I repeat - with her own leaks? Do you have in mind, Mr Papagelopoulos, who was this political pimp, who did bowling, interventions in Mrs Ryku's work? I'd like to hear it. Also, Mr Papagelopoulos - if it were Mr Kalogerou next to you, and Mr Kalogerou I would ask whether it was another Minister, and he would ask - I would like you to tell us whether you are being financed if you are being financed by George Soros. Do you SYRIZA Ministers put money in your pockets - ANEL money from George Soros to fund or buy foreign players, politicians - I don't know who else - in the Balkans? For that is what Mr Kammenos denounced within the Ministerial Council, according to the oral testimony of Mr Kotzias and we are not listening to anyone. Let me accept that at the Ministerial Council you were all 'fished' because it was Mr Tsipras and you did not want to ask for the floor. But this is where you have to answer us. So you have to tell us this: Do you, Mr. Papagelopoulos, and the other ministers of government, by George Soros, as Mr. Kotzias has said? Of course, as regards Mr Kammenos's complaint. Mr. Kotzias was affected, and he was the only one who reacted. Why didn't you react? So these are issues that we should be careful about, because justice is the last and most powerful refuge of any Greek citizen and through justice there are too many avenues going through and for social or non-violence and for economic justice or injustice. I will tell you a social problem that goes through justice, which is constantly growing and most of them may be ignored. It is the problem of non-equality in children’s custody, when a couple get divorced, or when there is a recognised child out of marriage. Today a father is on the fifty-third day of hunger strike in a prison on the Greek territory, which is protesting - exposed to the danger of life - why communication has been cut off from his child. It is a very important issue, which touches too many families. There is a legislative committee which was supposed to have given its conclusion in September to you - that is, to the Ministry of Justice - on the changes to be made to various articles of the Criminal Code of Family Law, in order to guarantee the equal rights of father and mother vis-à-vis children. Children should grow with the physical presence of both parents. The Greek law is archaic. And what's he doing? In the event of divorce, he immediately gives all the rights to the mother, excluding the father. Here we need judges of family law, family courts, who are aware of the matter. At the same time, however, we must also have the legal instruments that you are slowing down to create and modernise. The Legislative Committee has therefore taken another six months to extend. He met - from what I read - within six months all and all seven times. So, where you have to "take" beneficially in the course of justice, will you do so at this rate? You're not doing anything. So waiting for your answers as to whether you are being financed by George Soros and whether you are the political pimp who, according to Mrs Ryku's complaints, intervened in her work, I would now like to go through another matter. Let me give you some detail about the parents who lose their rights. With Presidential Decree 30/2010, the parent who exercises custody takes out a passport to the child and can leave abroad without the other parent signing. Do you know how many families have been separated this way? So how many parents - mostly fathers - have been alienated from their children, because the divorced mother has taken the child and have left abroad? The child is - and must be - the daughter of an eye on family law. So, move faster, to do some serious work in this area and speed up the work of the legislator's committee. We don't live in the Arab time! I now come to the core of this draft law. Electronic governance, therefore, the digitisation of procedures for us is a positive step. Reducing bureaucracy, of course, increases transparency and especially in the case of 'whereabouts', the benefits and necessity of electronic submission are so obvious that I do not think a Member or a serious political party will be found to reject them. There must be the full consensus of all parties on this matter. But let's move on to something else. Article 5, as we supported it in the committee, is problematic. It is the article referred to in the Committee on Audit, which acts as a special body, in order to check the statements of the assets of everything, from the Prime Minister to the mayors and all those who have to submit ‘from where they are concerned’. However, there is the following change with this draft law on Article 5. Replaces the Citizens' Counsel as a regular member of the Public Administration Inspectorate. This is a mistake for us and we do not consider this change right. Article 7 also introduces the notion of e-infringement in place of the administrative fine. What is the essence behind the change in terminology? Why is a fine renamed to a paradox when it has the meaning of the amount of advance paid to the Treasury for the exercise of a right? That's the paradox. It's the fine, but it's the paradox. In Article 10, which concerns the resolution of outstanding claims on past years' assets, I cannot understand - and I do not accept it, as is apparent from the wording of paragraph 4 - whether all debtors have to confirm and approve the content of previously submitted electronic statements of past years or not. As far as the amendments are concerned, I will focus in particular on the amendment on the extension of the Paradise Law, to say it simply. We in the river understand the need to dismantle the country's penitentiary stores. We have been exposed repeatedly to the European Union, because the conditions in our prisons are numerously unacceptable and nothing but penitentiary and pedagogic functions the system as it operates today. However, our experience with the Law of Friday and the constant extensions show us that there are very great distortions in this law and its implementation. The releases from the outset of the law are massive. To date they have come under this law from prisons prematurely over 12,000 prisoners. Only in 2017, the vehicle releases of these provisions of the contested law reached four thousand twenty-seven. The problem is that, in its original form, the law - and before it begins to tighten up the limit and the conditions of exit for certain categories of crime - and with its first application, criminals who had committed very serious crimes, such as homicides, terrorists, rape, robberies, felony thefts, blackmailing, infestation against minors, masturbation, trafficking in human beings, adult grabbing. These were allowed by law in its first form. So everyone came out of prison. With our own intense interventions - anti-population, I mean - the government began to tighten up this cycle of cases that could make use of the beneficial provisions of this law. I told you the numbers. Over 12,000 prisoners have left prisons using the Paradise Act and only in 2017, 4,027 cases of exit from prison arrived. Every month, like, about 350 prisoners take the way out. Also, in 2017, we had 320 releases sentenced for robbery and 1.137 releases sentenced for theft. The other big issue, then, is how medicine suddenly has a strong reason in giving justice. By 2015, the arrangements made for decongestion of prisons provided for the granting of this beneficial measure to those detainees who had been sentenced to sentence in prison for up to 10 years. The new law increased this limit and reached 20 years. Also, in the subordinate dismissal of the prisoner, the new Paradise law, as we are used to calling it, automated the procedure in relation to the Kastanides and Athanasios laws. The Athanasios Law had security differences. It was not an automated process: "I brought you paper from the doctor, I go out of prison." It wasn't like that at all. But today, with the Law of Friday, the prosecutor has nothing to do with any other business than check whether the medical certificate actually exists and from there and beyond to order the exit. So we have reached the phenomenon of fake disability certificates. Fabrika! We've also seen them with the Florus case. Now you run to find all the cases, how many people have been released with fake evidence and from there and beyond how many of them have left abroad possibly and then find them. To conclude: The treatment of criminal hell, not punishing, but with the logic of reintegration, and other things, the impression that the state can give and inspire society the belief that there is a relative impunity and a tolerability that is quite great. It is clear that the river cannot consent to this amendment. As far as the draft law is concerned, we are positive. The vote will see what we decide on the articles as well. From there on, however, Mr Papagelopoulos, I am anxiously awaiting your answers to the two questions I have put to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u48	Can you repeat them?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u49	Do you want me to say it for the third, fourth time?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u50	Repeat.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u51	I'll tell you, Mr. Papagelopoulos. The first question is: Have you personally sold from George Soros, as Mr Kammenos denounced and leaked from Mr Kotzias? This is not about you personally, it is about the government, the ministers. Do you have "take" with George Soros? You took money and then you financed politicians in the Balkans? That is the first question. And I imagine Mr. Kaloger will hear the questions, pass them on to him, and he will answer them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u52	However, it does not have a personal character. As government representatives you want to answer on behalf of the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u53	Of course not. Mr President, I have explained it so many times. It's not a personal report. Just because he was present as Ministers at the Ministerial Council and they heard Mr Kammenos - according to Mr Kotzias - saying that coup d'état is financed by George Soros, I would like to ask if these two ministers have actually taken money from George Soros.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u54	Are you putting this personally? You're asking if the ministers have taken it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u55	I'm glad you've been thrown away, Mr. Kalleru. Were you at the Ministerial Council when Mr Kammenos said that? Why have you not been thrown away then to ask for explanations and explanations or to give an answer? The second question, Mr Papagelopoulos, is this: To whom is Mrs Ryku referred, when she photographed him as a political pimp who intervened outside his role to send other cases to the record and others to the audience, despite her own otherwise? I ask these two questions. I don't photograph you personally. You are simply the political heads of justice and when these are heard at the Ministerial Council, when the prosecutor corruption comes out twice and says so, I would like answers. We therefore want answers from the Ministers present. Since you have not said so, you have not risen up, Mr Kalogerou, you have not been put to the Ministerial Council to say 'what is that you are saying, Mr Kammene, about Soros and about funding', I hope you will tell Parliament here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u56	Mr. Papagelopoulos, because after Mr. Saridis, you will take the floor, write them down, and you will take some extra time to answer beyond the bill. Let's not interrupt and close with Mr. Saridis and the speakers. The special speaker from the Centroon Association, Mr Saridis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u57	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, equipment, health scandals, committees of inquiry, hatreds, the law on the responsibility of ministers,'monitoring', 'the memorials are torn apart every day', 'I have delusional': this is the image we have and it is tragic in itself. The Greek people know, they know. Don't think he doesn't understand what's happened in here, what's going on in here every day. Somewhere at the end of this series mentioned by the word 'justice'. The Greek people therefore expect justice to be vindicated for their lost years, their lost dreams, their lost hopes. Well, justice. What can justice do to you? We give the weapons to justice in this Chamber. We arm justice to do her job well. If we don't give her the guns, what do we expect her to do? Are we doing our job in here? She's doing her best, too, from her side. We are not legitimate in judging justice when we leave it uncovered. The Greek Constitution, ladies and gentlemen, is clear: "All Greeks are equal to the law." But a very critical question arises: Do all Greeks feel equal to the law? The answer, unfortunately, is overwhelming and is sorrowful: No, not all Greeks feel equal to the law. And how do they feel, when they know the content of an overshadowed law, the Law on the Responsibility of Ministers, when they see the free circulation of all kinds of convicts, invoking laws made in their measures, made by them? Fifteen years have taken it to force the fourth Minister of State after Tsukatos, Mandeli, Tsochazopoulos to find himself in a very difficult position and have to answer a simple question: Where have you been? Where did you get them? Fifteen whole years have taken it to be forced to respond, fifteen years to try to answer. Because we didn't get an answer. We did not receive an answer, nor did the interrogators get an answer. And for that very reason he took his way to the Koydallus, because he just couldn't give the answer to where he found them. Ladies and gentlemen, the greatest damage in our country has not been done by the Shiite Government's 'good children' when they were asking for hatred. The greatest damage was done by those who allowed them to return to their homes and let them free for decades to rejoice with their best friends with the money from the misery and donations, the money that the Greeks deprived, the money that our children will be deprived of, the things that our grandchildren deprived of, the money. It is this money for which the country has been forced to embed its public property for ninety years, what has led to monuments, commissions, extortion, loss of national sovereignty. The level of damage to Mr Papantoniou's case is estimated at EUR 400 million. Do you know what that means? We cut pensions looking for that amount. We've cut health benefits to save this amount. We fired people, we shut down businesses for that money. Our young people left - the capital of this country - abroad for that money. As I have already stressed at committee meetings, if today's bill had been passed and applied earlier, it is certain that we would have saved many of them. The laws that have been in force to date, as it has proved, were neither capable of preventing predators nor, of course, helping justice in order to identify and judge them. But neither did the political system stand up to the circumstances. What is Mr Simitis's comment? Why is the then Prime Minister of the country silent? Does he have anything to tell us about the fact that half of the Ministerial Council was grabbing them? Their courage would not be disgusting and laughable if it were not so serious if the wounds that caused this country were not so great. They dare some to claim that the custody of Papantoniou is an attack on democracy, that the Constitution, the constitutional order, is supposed to collapse the notorious rule of law. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, all the fraudsters say the same, and in particular the political fraudsters who hold for the last line of defence the position that persecution on their faces is political persecution and the result of manipulation of justice by the government in question. In other words, justice has not been manipulated for fifteen years! When the files were lost, when the evidence disappeared, when the proceedings were delayed until the deadlines were passed and the charges were filed against them, were justice not then manipulated? Now he's manipulating? So it was manipulated because Mr. Papantoniou took the road to prison after fifteen years, because he was unable to answer us where he found them? So hypocrisy is too much. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the Vice-President of Parliament, Ms. MARios GEORGIADIS.]] So the only comment I have to make on today's bill is that it complements those loopholes that diligently left some in the laws that were allegedly protecting us from the phenomena of corruption, interactivity, mismanagement and fragmentation. But whether it is enough what we are legislating today will be seen in practice and judged the future. We cannot be sure of anything while it is still the law on the liability of ministers. The place you used to be is clearly good. There is now a large part of society in the bill, but as long as the law on the responsibility of the Ministers is in place, we will have a bruising point, which we will have to expel, we will have to dismiss above us, so that we do not allow the margin for the Greek people to say that we are not doing our job well and that we are all the same. So we're not the same. We cannot all be the same in this Chamber. We cannot be sure of anything as long as the law on the responsibility of the ministers goes on. We welcome any initiative announced. To open up the debate on the constitutional review, because that is the only way we can finally dismantle this indisputable law. We hope, of course, for our part not to be a government communication flare and indeed to be the necessary seriousness behind these proposals when they are made. Because you know, the communication flares hurt the country, they illuminate our defensive positions, so that the enemies of Greece can see them, just as Mr Kotzias did, when he surprised everyone to mention Greece's clearly inalienable right to extend to twelve nautical miles. Finally, any seriousness and any responsibility of Mr Kotzias proved to be on the day of his resignation. At the most critical moment for the country, he decided to leave the ship. He didn't even sit down to defend the tragic deal of the lake, which he too signed, and he wrote himself, after he shook our fingers, explaining that we don't have to be informed about these things. However, as far as these very serious things are concerned, matters of particular importance, that is, national issues such as the twelve nautical miles, from what we hear, will come to Parliament. Skopje didn't come. The twelve nautical miles will come. That, he says, is Parliament's work. It wasn't the scout. Fortunately we cannot wait for the presidential decrees that Mr Kotzias might have been ready for, and fortunately - to be honest - which he resigned, although his resignation around a veil of non-transparent funds is unbearable. I don't really see her. Two metres, two stations, not the scalp in the House, yes, the twelve nautical miles in the House, the foreign policy of bilingual standards, without a start, without a plan, without consultation. Turkey's present reaction an hour and a half ago: Turkey will take all necessary steps to defend its interests if they are affected in the Aegean Sea or are threatened. As long as we are discussing the twelve nautical miles in the House, Turkey will be fortified on its side. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is necessary and necessary. We are still considering the improvements and corrections made in the bill and we hope that our comments will be respected until the time of their vote. We keep our guard until that time. As far as the amendments are concerned, we will retain our right to talk about them in our dentistry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr. Saridis. The Minister has the floor, Mr Paulakis, to develop an amendment. Minister, how much time do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u59	Three-four minutes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u60	I'll give you five minutes to be sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u61	Thank you very much, Mr President. As we have shown many times in the past, we are followers and faithful servants of the doctrine of consistency and effectiveness in what we declare, publish and ultimately legislate. I support the amendment with a general number of 1786 and a special number of 163, which contains the final regulation that is needed, in order to proceed immediately, within the first days of November, with the announcement of the thousands of two hundred permanent staff, for the posts it currently serves, from two to more than four and a half years, as an ancillary staff. We have set up the positions with previous amendment passed in the draft law on the ratification of the Ohasios Donation Convention, where we have practically established the positions that were not provided for in the agencies - the well-founded agencies of 2012, Mr Loverdos - and now we are actually legislating to mobilise the staff pre-service that is currently serving, and in particular we are legislating to mobilise the pre-service with 20 molecules for the first forty-eight months. This is being done as an effort and as recognition of the work these people have offered, which is a very large part of it - to explain - about five hundred people, were hired before the SYRIZA government took over - ANEL the government power in that country, before 2015, and then added by means of a proclamation that was carried out again on the criteria of the AACC and implemented by the health regions, another six hundred and eighty people, to cover immediate and imperative gaps in the functioning of the public health system. We therefore believe that we cannot have such a staff who have been trained, has gained experience, has supported the system in difficult years and practically not to recognise some moleculosis, which will allow it to better claim the permanent positions that we have achieved - and which is the last batch of permanent posts now being announced - in the total planning of the twenty thousand five hundred posts that we have carried out over these three years. There is also a second paragraph, precisely because this legislation was needed. We said that this notice would take place until October 30, 2018. We're giving a month of extension until 30 November. Our aim is to go within the first fortnight of November to come out of this notice, so that work can really be strengthened and permanentised to the vast majority of people who are still serving today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr. Polakis. The Deputy Minister has the floor, Mr Papagelopoulos. Minister, I will not give you more than 15 minutes, because Mr Kaloger will also speak. I would ask you to be in your time. Mr. Kaloger, you will take the time as the chief minister of the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u63	Mr President, with all due respect, first of all your predecessor in the Chair was committed to giving me more time, because he has referred to me many times.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u64	Minister, my predecessor told me about the time you agreed. Of course you know there is a relative tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u65	I will try to be very brief and comprehensive and not to abuse anyone's time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u66	Before you just start, I'll make an announcement. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-two students and students and three educational attendants from the 3rd Grade Gerakas. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u67	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to spend your time on matters other than the draft legislation being passed. I believe that the Greek people are voting for their MPs to legislate rather than commenting on the news or emit communications crowns. I must point out, however, that the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Karagkounis, spoke eighteen minutes and three seconds, spent thirteen minutes and thirty-five seconds on the issues of topicality, spoke two minutes on what New Democracy would do if it came to the government and the rest of the time dedicated it to the draft law. I must say, however, that Mr Karagkounis and Mr Papatheodorou had made a great contribution, which I shall refer to the committees. I have thanked them publicly and I will thank them today for their contribution. However, some things need to be pointed out, because some have also raised personal issues, such as Mr Amyras, which I am delighted to hear from him. For Mr. Papatheodorou's time, and I've taken note of them, but we don't waste time. The answers to both of these issues, namely Mr Kammenos and what he said to the Ministerial Council and to the 'cycles' of Mrs Ryuku - yet again, I hear this first time in the 40 years I have been dealing with justice, as lawyer, prosecutor and Deputy Minister, that the prosecutors have circles, in any case that is one of the phenomena of our time - can also be given in accordance with the procedure of parliamentary control. However, because Mr Amyras in particular - I think it is well-meaning - raised two questions, one is whether the ministers of government have taken them away from Soros and what we have to say about Mrs Ryku's pimps - I have to answer the following: In the first, at least, Mr Amyras, you are not used to us because it is - I am sorry to say it - a cheap communication trick. You just put it to hear that...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u68	Kammens didn't tell the Ministerial Council?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u69	Repeat it with a torso.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u70	Kammenos didn't say so, did he? I didn't say it!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u71	Mr. Amyras, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u72	Mr. President, vacations with...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u73	But you are causing, Minister. I'm sorry, you referred to his name, so you understand there may be reactions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u74	The other caused it, and the minister answered it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u75	I'm sorry, expressing my opinion is not a challenge. It's not a challenge to express my opinion!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u76	Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u77	Just to hear in the Greek Parliament that there are possible ministers of the government to 'have them' for the Ambassadors' agreement. I would like to say here that this cannot stand by any logic. The government is doing something that he thinks is right. He's doing it with courage. It takes on - temporarily I want to believe - the political cost. Remunerate why she does what she considers her duty?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u78	Did you tell Mr. Kammen what you answered us?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u79	Come on, Mr. Amyras!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u80	As for 'the circles' of the prosecutor and of what he complained about, I have to say that when it is clear who these circles are, what they denounce specifically and whether those circles with the market language do represent this lady, then you can be sure that not only will the appropriate answers be given, but some interesting questions will also be asked, for which the answers will be of great interest. Also, Mr. Papatheodorou once again announced special courts. I don't know if there's gonna be a special court. In my experience, however, I imagine that there may be other courts for what is said and written without debate. As I said to the committees last week, although I think that the bill under discussion is a very good bill, I would be very happy if the discussions in the committees had added or improved it further. Indeed, the constructive debate in the committees, which the three gentlemen I had to respond to, namely Mr Karagkounis and Mr Papatheodorou and Mr Amyras, gave us the opportunity to make significant legislative improvements, as you will see from the table to be distributed to you. I'll read him quickly to testify to him. Article 1(2) currently in force shall be replaced by Article 1 (b)(2). Before (b) paragraph 2 of Article 1 (a) is added: ‘2.a. In the event of the first paragraph of Article 1 of Law 3213/2003 the words ‘and when appointed’ shall be deleted. In the case of (d) paragraph 1 of Article 1 of Law 3213/2003 amended by paragraph 11 of Article 1 of the draft law, the word ‘Head’ shall be replaced by the word ‘Heads’. Paragraph 2 of Article 1 of Law 3213/2003, as amended by paragraph 14 of Article 1 of the draft law, is replaced by the following: ‘The declaration referred to in paragraph 1 shall be submitted by the debtors within 90 days of their acquisition of their status (original declaration). In the following years, the declaration shall be made annually during the term of office, the activity or the maintenance of the status of the debtors and the following year. In particular, for debtors in cases (a) to (b) and (l) of paragraph 1, the declaration shall be made for three years after the loss of status or termination of term of office. The declaration shall be submitted within an exclusive period of three months after the deadline for the submission of the income tax declaration. By way of exception, statements of assets and economic interests originally with a liability status in 2016, 2017 and 2018 until the publication of this and annual years 2016 (use 2015), 2017 (use 2016) and 2018 (use 2017) shall be submitted from 04-01-2019 to 04-03-2019.’ In Article 2(6), the following subparagraph is added: The words ‘wife’ and ‘or its child’ shall be added to the words ‘person with whom he has concluded a cohabitation agreement’. Article 3(7) of Article 2A of Law 3213/2003 added by Article 3 of the draft law after the words ‘In the event of the acquisition of a new asset’ shall be added to the words ‘or intensification thereof’. In Article 4: After paragraph 2 of Article 4 of the draft law, paragraph 2a is added: ‘2a The words ‘in case of no’ in the last subparagraph of paragraph 1 of Article 3 of Law 3213/2003 shall be replaced by ‘in case of no’.’. The second subparagraph of Article 3(2) of the Law. 3213/2003 which is replaced by paragraph 5 of Article 4 of the draft law, is amended as follows: ‘In the event of serious indications or new evidence of committed or attempted crime referred to in paragraph 3 of Article 6 or paragraph 2 of Article 6A, the inspection may exceptionally be carried out until the criminal infringement has been completed’. I will explain here in order to satisfy Mr Karagunis with his remarks. In the fifth subparagraph of Article 3(2) of Law 3213/2003 replaced by Article 4(5) of the draft law, ‘Control, other than finding’ is replaced by ‘Control of annual declarations other than finding’. In the last subparagraph of Article 3B(4) of the Treaty. 3213/2003 added by Article 6(2) of the draft law, the words ‘when evidence of termination of the crime referred to in Article 6(3) or Article 6(2)’ shall be replaced by ‘when serious indications or new evidence of execution or attempted to commit the crime referred to in Article 6(3) or Article 6(2)’. In Article 7, paragraph 1 of Article 6 of Law 3213/2003 replaced by paragraph 1 of Article 7 of the draft law is amended as follows: Within 30 days of the deadline laid down in paragraph 2 of Article 1 of L.3213/2003 a declaration may be made after payment of an electronic paradoxical amount of EUR 100 for the debtors who submit a declaration to the Committee for the Control of Article 3A and a 100 euro for the other debtors. After 30 days of the previous subparagraph, the submission of a declaration shall be permitted after payment of an electronic insane sum of eight hundred euros...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u81	Minister, if you refer to legislative improvements, you don't have to waste time reading them. Set them up and continue your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u82	I'm tabling them in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u83	I would ask that they be distributed to my fellow Members. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u84	For example, I will refer to some of the legislative improvements to their thinking. The reference to years rather than use in paragraph 2 of Article 1 was preferred because it makes it clear that it is only for three years after the loss of the capacity of the obligor, otherwise - as it has so far been - it would appear that it should have been for four years. We were offered this by the audit bodies. In the text of the legislative improvements you will see that the provision on when controls can be carried out by the audit bodies over five years has been radically improved following meetings in the committee. First, the surname ‘serious’ has been added to the essential ‘indications’. One reminder here: Indicators are not only the reason for referring defendants to the audience, but are also the same means of proof, in accordance with Article 178 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. This is the first last named means of proof. So, if serious indications are to be made, we are obviously talking about means of evidence that arises and are disclosed to the audit bodies, which show that the crimes are being committed, that is, the non-reporting of a statement ‘wherever they are concerned’ or the submission of an inaccurate or incomplete statement, when such acts are carried out for the purpose of concealing more than EUR 300,000, so in cases of extreme high enrichment. In order to make it even clearer, it is added to the wording of the Act 'and the new elements which, if they arise, can allow control over time beyond five years of submission of the declaration'. The time of investigation, even for felonies, cannot exceed 15 years and is badly mentioned by some here that we have been talking for 20 years. These are felonies punishable by temporary imprisonment in accordance with Article 112. So, until 15 years, control can go. Another interesting amendment, in my view, to which I would like to say a few words, is the reform of the fines. This was a request from the ports, but it concerns all low-paid, unpaid and unpaid civil servants, who are very limited by the paradox in the event of delay. However, I would also like to refer to two other requests from bodies which have not been included in the legislative improvements. We are talking about the demands of the CEDEFOP that want further study and cooperation with the Ministry of Interior, because the advisory committees in the municipalities currently operating under the "KALIKARATI" system have a wide range of responsibilities that may extend to matters of town planning, shop licenses, health care, procurement, etc. The matter should therefore be examined more thoroughly and in cooperation with the Ministry of Interior and the relevant bodies. I would like to remind you that some of these advisory committees also carry out the competitions. About the reporters now. It is a very good request from the U.S.S.S.S.A., and I was very concerned about it, but there will be a need for further investigation, to see where we can borrow the data, for which both of the relevant bodies are referring to each other. Secondly, I think it is very reasonable to demand that the unemployed reporters be exempt from submission and the cost of making statements 'from where they are concerned'. But they have to tell us where we're going to get this evidence. I will very much limit what I have to say because of lack of time. At this point I will be suffice to raise a few of the issues that have been confronted in the past, and the S.E., as well as the issues that have been raised and discussed in committees last week, have been resolved. This bill complied with S.H.E.’s decision. on the audit body of the judicial staff’s statement of assets. The audit will be carried out by the Commission 3A of the Parliament, which will be extended by adding an additional advisor to the Board. And an Deputy Prosecutor of the Ice Arena. The majority of the committee will therefore be composed of prosecutors and judges. It is also laid down that, in checking the statements made by the public prosecutors and judges, the former judiciary is to perform its duties. At this point there was full compliance with the Council of State's decision. You will allow me, however, to show how unfair the criticism of the earlier legal status of "subjects" vacated by the S.A. was to say that for a very long time in the past, the prosecutors and judges have submitted - I was then an active prosecutor - the statements "outside" to the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay. The investigation was carried out by the Deputy Prosecutor of the Ice Bay, and no one had complained that the investigation was a co-legislative body. But let it be. As regards the replacement of the Citizens' Counselor by the Chief Inspector for Public Administration, this is because the Chief Inspector is carrying out audit tasks for about eighteen thousand audited and has a long-term experience in the area of control. In addition, it shall undertake the preparation, administration, management of the development, improvement and maintenance contracts of the electronic applications of the information systems ‘by way’ and monitor its implementation in accordance with Article 2A, paragraph 22 of this Legislation. As regards the replacement of the Citizens' Counselor by the Public Administration Inspector, I would like to point out the following. In accordance with Article 1 n.3094/2003, the Citizens' Ombudsman has as his task the control over the action of the Public Administration and its institutions and mediation between citizens and public services to protect citizens' rights, combat maladministration and respect for legality. And it is a fact that the Citizens' Counsel does not have decisive powers and only formulates proposals, suggestions and recommendations to the administration. In addition, it should be noted that the Committee on the Audit of Statements from Policies and Judiciaries is obviously not a public office, but a supervisory body, which is not a civil servant, but a representative of legislative and judicial authority. Another issue raised in the Committee's discussions last week on how to select the judicial officers involved in Commission 3A in Article 90 of the Constitution provides for the procedure and the competent body, the supreme Court of Justice, for the service of judicial officers, i.e. the promotions, placements, transfers and secondments thereof. Article 89(2) of the Constitution provides exceptionally for judicial officers to participate in councils, committees exercising powers of review, disciplinary or judicial review. Article 41(2) of the Code of Justice and Judicial Officers exceptionally allows judicial officers to elect members of the academy of teaching staff and to participate in boards or committees exercising disciplinary, audit or judicial powers, etc. A judicial officer who will participate shall be designated by the Judge or the Advocate-General or the three-member Council who shall direct the political or the administrative court or the prosecutor, following a question from the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u85	Minister, you've already reached nineteen minutes. I'm just telling you to shorten up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u86	Mr President, if you'll excuse me, but four minutes have all been broken and are you depriving the immediate minister of developing the bill that is very serious and most of the time spent on topical issues?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u87	You know Mr. Kalogero is the minister who brings the bill, so...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u88	It's me. Mr. Kalogeru...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u89	Okay, just finish in a reasonable time, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u90	The judiciary shall chair such boards. In the event that judicial officers participate in the committees with those powers, the procedure laid down in Article 90 of the Constitution is not complied with, since that participation is not a service change. It would also be extremely difficult for the judiciary to meet for these committees. This provision is therefore a constitutional provision and I believe that further questioning gives rise to unfair grounds for the impartiality of the head of the Supreme Courts. I would remind you that the heads of the Supreme Courts designate chambers, rapporteurs, charge cases without demanding their powers. This bill, following the decision of the S.H.E. in the case of cash other than bank accounts and high-value mobiles, the amounts above which the debtors in the above mentioned cases have a declaration obligation. This regulation is fully in line, not only with international standards of transparency and the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights, but also with common sense. All this is explained in detail in the explanatory statement, in which I refer to avoid unnecessary repetitions. For example, I had noted to mention a few. However, after the pressure I am taking to keep in the fifteenth minute, I will bypass them and fully refer to the explanatory statement. I will only add that Greek tax legislation obliges taxpayers to declare any acquisition of a mobile phone, the value of which is more than EUR 10,000, without anyone saying that this provision is unconstitutional. After having omitted why this provision cannot be called into question, I will only add that, according to the lessons of common experience and logic, all Greeks know that money laundering is usually done with cash outside the banking system and with the purchase of works of art, precious stones, jewelry, etc. I will also point out another issue and I will end with it, although I have a great deal more to say. The claim of a lack of electronic system security measures has already been rejected by the recent decisions of the S.H.E., which accepted that the administration has taken adequate protection measures for the security of the system and to minimise the risks of intervention by third parties and leakage. I think it is a very good bill, which I am pleased that it has been widely conscientious so far. I am sure that the Greek people will give credit not only to the government which had the legislative initiative, but also to the parties, even to the bodies which have contributed to the drafting and voting of this bill. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Minister. We have completed with the rapporteurs and the special speakers. The Minister spoke, too. We are now starting with the list of speakers and parliamentary representatives. Two speakers will come to the fore, one parliamentarian, so that we can finish the process. Fourteen colleagues have been registered, so we will be counting time to see when we will finish. First of the speakers is Mr Papaliou. Immediately after that, Mr Tassoulas and Mr Theoharopoulos will speak first of all. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u92	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the control of statements of assets from where you were concerned has been shown to be an important tool in the fight against corruption. That doesn't mean it's the only tool. The fight against corruption also requires other initiatives, including interventions that will be taken - and I hope, at least - in the context of the revision of the Constitution. In our country, problems that have arisen in the course of the inspection of declarations where you sought to deal with this bill. In this context, the proposed arrangements aim to further enhance transparency, iso-corruption and the repression of corruption. Indicatively, the most specific provisions of this bill are the inclusion of declarants from any point of view and other categories of persons for the purpose of adapting the institution to the latest legislative and administrative developments, but also to the living reality, the specialisation of the way and content of the control of the statement of assets, the completion of the relevant information systems and the full exploitation of the possibilities of modern technology, the reform of the scope of the audits, the further strengthening of the audit committee with an increase in its members and ensuring that the majority of it is made up of senior judicial officers and, finally, the improvement of the identification of the consequences of the submission of a late statement of assets, but also the improved duplication of the incorrect or incomplete declaration. I will then focus on two important amendments tabled. One is the extension of the emergency measures to decongested prisons and the second is the possibility of transferring former municipal police officers to municipal police services. In this regard, the different view of things in the fields of justice and public administration that New Democracy has in relation to SYRIZA is illustrated. The prison decongestion amendment proposes to extend the exceptional measures for their decongestion. This is how the explosive problem of overpaid prisons, which has a serious impact on living, safety, human dignity of the prisoners, but also a visible risk of the country being thrown into European and international public opinion and condemned to European courts. In addition, stricter conditions are introduced in the event of an offence being committed after release, as if the dismissal were subject to a new offence and sentenced to a sentence of one to three years, it is envisaged that it will return to the detention regime and serve the entire sentence imposed upon it. Of course, for certain offences of particular decency and high risk for the legal order and the safety of the social system, the exclusion of the application of these provisions shall be maintained or it shall be determined that the penalty may be established at home by electronic surveillance. All this, of course, goes without saying that once the new Criminal Code enters into force it will cease to apply as they will not be required. In addition, the bill provides corrections and supplements to the provision of Article 110a of the Criminal Code and the principle of moral free proof is strengthened and therefore the role of the judge in order to prevent cases of improper violation or abuse - most urgent - by invoking the dismissal status. In this context, it is possible to provide expertise, even if there is CSR certification, and to revoke at any time decisions that have been accepted to release applications for release for health reasons if they have been based on false or false evidence. Ladies and gentlemen, in justice there are two different policies, one of penalisation and reintegration into the society of peoples who have committed crimes and the other of the spirit of vengeance. The amendment on the transfer of former municipal police officers gives the possibility of transferring former municipal police officers serving in detention stores to municipal police services. In this way, the injustice, which the New Democracy - PASOK government had committed against municipal police officers, abolishing the Municipal Police, is restored in order to then remove them. Jurisdiction shall be restored in such a way as to ensure the proper functioning of detention stores until the recruitment of the penitentiary officials of AACC notice 6K/2018 is completed. As in the area of justice, two different policies exist in the field of public administration. The principles of objectivity, dignity and service of the public interest conflict with the customer state and the logic of further conferring competences on individuals, through the removal of other civil servants. Ladies and gentlemen, in the cries of counter-population and especially of the New Democracy, which I would say constitute voices of guilt, for a alleged operation of manipulation - to work justice by SYRIZA - they are used, it is not accidental - the same wording and arguments, which were used yesterday by the former Minister of PASOK, who, after fifteen (!)! Some years have been temporarily detained for the laundering of dirty money, noting, of course, that in this case, the presumption of innocence applies. However, all of this reminds us of the proverb "calls the thief to be afraid of the housekeeper". Ladies and gentlemen, the government's approach to justice is institutional and has nothing to do with the practices of the government of the New Democracy and PASOK in the field of justice. Gentlemen of counterpopulation, look in the mirror. Do not judge the alternators themselves and let justice clear the corruption cases that investigates “SIEMENS”, armaments, media and parties lending, “NOVARTIS” and other cases, which have largely contributed to the bankruptcy of the country, even though they are likely to involve one of your executives. If it turns out that they are involved, do not identify with them. If not - we wish it - they will be attributed innocently to society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr. Papaliou. Mr Tassoulos from New Democracy has the floor, and immediately after the speech the Parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Reconciliation Mr Theocharopoulos will be given. Here, Mr. Tsouula, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u94	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill, which is being discussed in plenary, relates to one of the most difficult issues with which the so-called political system may become. It is said that these bills, since 1964, have been passed so far, relate to the protection of the honor of the political world. If we dare to change the name and to speak not about the protection of the value of the political world, but about the insight into the fact that the political world has an honor, then the covetous - as it is said - would be almost unbelievable because of the amount of public opinion that has put its claim for the honor of the political world and the public's sense of the honesty of the so-called political world. I would like to say with that that it has only been possible to put forward statements on where you were going and to broaden every cycle of the debtors in such a way that, Mr Kalogerou, soon there will be a law that will no longer extend the debtors, but there will be a law that will be a law that talks about the non-responsibility. It'll be much simpler to be that way. Nevertheless, despite compliance with decisions by the Council of State, despite compliance with personal data requirements, despite the refusal to archive the cases by five years and the attempt to revive archive cases, since we have far-reaching evidence that makes a serious indication, despite the UN's international agreement on combating corruption or the establishment of a state-supply anti-corruption regime, the public's impression remains unchanged about widespread corruption. And it is worth wondering why all this accumulation of laws and regulations does not convince public opinion that with the existing provisions while those who violate them are guilty of corruption, those who do not violate them are not guilty of corruption? Nobody says otherwise. On the contrary, the suspicion is intense and usually the enclaves say that nothing was found, because they deal with each other. So this is about an appreciable project. And it's become a silencing about something that I'm going to say and which was misinterpreted the last time I said it, and the misinterpretation proves why it's a silencing. I have said - and I insist - that the feeling of existing corruption is continuing beyond the existing corruption and that the impression of an ancient sport is added to the existing corruption. In other words, it adds to the appalling mass of corruption and an additional sense to do with the impression of the epileptic error, which is an epidemic disease in our country. When I said this, it was said that the spokesman of the New Democracy refuses corruption so that I do not dare - I am supposed to deny corruption - to repeat my view of slander. Why do I dare allegedly deny corruption? So I want to cover corrupt ones, so I want to coincide with the general concept that everyone is corrupt and those who are judged to be found all right, just find out right, because they're controlled on each other and no one takes out the eye of a horn when he's a horn. So here we are dealing with a titanium project and the Scientific Service of the Parliament, which gives us some advice and some instructions on the fullest legalization, says at a point something that should be the target of all of us from now on. It does not matter that we draw up a list of all the obligors. The aim of the legislation is not a permanent reserve. The aim of the legislation is to monitor the change, increase the assets of the obligors. There we need to focus weight and not on a bunch of processes, which every time they grow and become complicated, involve the risk of uncomfortable submission, involve the risk of mistakes, involve the risk of breaching some typical detail that will, however, hang you in the handkerchiefs! It is a difficult time and, as a great biographer of great persons said, it has not always been so in connection with corruption. In pre-revolutionary times, in periods prior to major turbulence, especially before, there was not this climate. The phrase of the biographer of Talleyrandos Evgenos Tarle, the director of Russia's mining ministry to a contractor who said to him, in a revolutionary way, that "Master, if you give me this contractor, I will give you 3,000 rubles and I will not say it anywhere". And he answers: "Give me 5,000 rubles and tell me where you want." [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] This excessive picture of amnesia about the outcry of corruption fits, mutatis mutandis, with the lack of confidence in public opinion that with the multiple laws on where we are hitting corruption. We simply find it difficult to draw up our point of view, while we should, if possible, tackle what the Scientific Service of Parliament points out, convincingly address public opinion, procedure and control over the increase in the property situation. That's the target, that's the big problem, and that's where we need to focus. And I shall come to what is happening - and I shall end here, Mr President - with all the efforts of change, particularly from the current government which does not provide guarantees of impartiality and objectivity. It is a recent Minister to urge justice to put political opponents in prison. The complaint by the Minister of National Defence at the Ministerial Council concerning the financing of government ministers or aggregation of the Government by Soro, which was dealt with only by the former Minister of Foreign Affairs, is recent, unless, Ministers, his complaint was received in any event by the complainant Minister of Defence, that it is not a leave to Soro, but a leave to the Sorra, so it is possible. Look at the Minutes to see exactly what that minister denounced anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u95	Please, Mr. Colleague, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u96	These, however, all beyond any remorse cause severe grief and, above all, undermine the feeling that you can be trusted with such deeds. It's a huge experiment. You're doing some sort of solution to the problem, but you're creating other problems elsewhere. We have no objection to vote on it, but the time has not yet come for the question of public opinion to be resolved on the price of the political world. It seems that the next government, Mr Mitsotakis, is also in charge of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr. Tasoula. I shall now give the floor to the Minister, Mr Stathakis, to develop a number of amendments and then I shall call on Mr Theocharopoulos to take the floor. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. These are four amendments, three for the EGF and one for the Reunification Fund for those who lose the social invoice. The three amendments to the IGM concern the resolution of a problem which the IGM has been stirring up for twenty years. I am referring to the problems that have arisen for a long time from the insurance policy which was signed in 1989 between the IGM and the National Insurance and which provided for the payment of a single sum to each worker on departure. This contract entered many adventures due to successive changes. In 1990 it was amended for the percentage of workers in the premiums. It was predicted that they would participate 25% compared with 50% initially. In 1994 there was an additional favourable regulation. The rate of the one-off rate was set at 100% of the final average salary, instead of 50%, which was up until then and 1999, the right to collect the one-off amount was granted, not only to the retired, but also to the transferees of the FIFG. All the above changes led to bankruptcy in this particular contract. As early as 2001, the insurance company with its documents and proportionate studies pointed out to the IGM that a deficit had been created in the group insurance account, but that the IGM was unable to respond, and that in 2009 the delay and the interruption of the payment of the allowances to the retired workers who also appealed to the courts. Today the demands of pensioners and workers are estimated at EUR 54 million. Given that the overall requirements are increasing over time due to interest rates - there are some court rulings already - what is being proposed today in this amendment is a regulation on extrajudicial regulation, so that, by the end of the year, this problem can be resolved, which I repeat, since 2001, seems to have been in an unresolved orbit. The proposal is very simple. The non-judicial compromise relates to 60% of the capital of the claims of pensioners and pensioners. I repeat, they relate to 60% of the capital of the pensioners' claims. Compensation for this amount will be paid in a instalment during the current year of 2018, i.e. until Christmas, while resigning those who accept the extrajudicial compromise from any other claim against the FME. In order to satisfy and implement the extrajudicial legislation, the legislation to be adopted commits a sum of EUR 24 million from the State budget for this purpose of extrajudicial regulation. The article analyses what will happen and what will happen in the whole process. This amount will be paid to the Deposit and Loan Fund. It provides for the resignation of the workers and the pensioners of each claim against the EGF, as well as the procedure for disbursing this amount, which I repeat corresponds to 60% of the capital of the claim of each pensioner and employee. The second article extends for two months the suspension of execution against the EGM for the purpose of the smooth and uninterrupted execution of all necessary steps. I repeat, the IGM is being threatened - which is why we brought this amendment last year - with demands from pensioners. For two months, therefore, the protection of the EGM is extended by requirements of this type. The extrajudicial compromise will be concluded, and at the same time, as you know, the new law on the creation of a new EGMM, which will be coming to Parliament in the next few months, next month, has come into consultation. With the third article - and I am closing with the IGM - the issue of double cuts in the wages of the workers of the FIFG is resolved. IGM employees suffered two cuts. The second cut has been judged by a number of judgments as unconstitutional. On the basis of this amendment, this second wage cut is restored. The fourth amendment concerns the special reunification account. I would remind you that when we voted on the new social invoice, this had two criteria. The first was how many have assets and income criteria that were entitled to receive dividends, last year's social dividend, and they are part of the social invoice. The second was those who take CRLs, an income of solidarity, which, instead of 30%, was a discount on the social invoice, now enjoy 70% discount, thus strengthening the supply of electricity to the truly poorer strata. Next to the new social tariff, we established on the basis of resources from the social dividend that we received from the Reunification Fund last year, claiming that we do not want to see any household without electricity in Greece. What's this reunion fund doing? Those who have lost the social invoice, for whatever reason, have recourse to this fund in order to pay them the debts they have to PPC and the electricity reconnection fee. This has various criteria for how it's done and so on. In this fund last December we put EUR 10 million from the social dividend, the surplus and on the basis of this two thousand to four hundred poor, truly poor households - the crisis is carried out by a local committee from the municipality, the TEDO, which certifies that it is in line with the criteria set by the fund - they have been compensated by the state, they have gained power again and have been integrated - that is - into the social invoice. In this fund, with this amendment, the possibility of transferring an additional amount beyond 10 million - 10 million has been finished - to this special reunification account, with the aim of directly dealing with energy poverty and of supporting consumers with very low incomes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr. Minister. You shouldn't have had a speech. You spoke nine minutes, but it was a lot of issues. Mr Kalogerou, have you asked for the floor to accept some of the amendments?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u100	Only on the amendments, so that the House can be informed of the progress of the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u101	The Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has the floor, Mr Kalogerou.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u102	The amendments tabled by our Ministry, Mr President, have already been incorporated into the bill as Articles 13, 14, 15 and 16. In other words, they are the two decongestive, the 110A decongestive, the arrangement for organic positions at the Drama Booking Store and the arrangement for municipal police officers serving in detention stores. The following amendments are accepted: The amendment by the Ministry of Health by a general number of 1786 and a special number of 163, the amendment by the Ministry of Economy with a general number of 1789 and a special 166, and the amendment by the Ministry of the Environment, which has just been supported by a general number of 1788 and a special number of 165. With regard to the legislative amendments, the amendment tabled by the Members, Mr Paraskevopoulos, Mrs Tsirkas and Mrs Christodoulopoulos, for the abolition of tribute, is acceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u103	Listen to the objections first and then.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u104	Mr President, I would like to state, in order to be consistent with the parliamentary amendments and to be supported by the Members who have tabled them, that the Ministry's intention is indeed to accept it. We'll hear the support, but also the opponent. But I say to you that, in principle, we intend to accept this amendment. I shall therefore be staying in the ministerial and parliamentary amendments tabled by the Members of the Communist Party, in relation to the process of self-determination in the press, and I shall take the floor again when the Members of the Communist Party come and refer to the issues of the parliamentary amendments. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and how 50 students and students and three trainers from the Sakhara High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Parliamentary spokesman PASOK - Athanasios Theocharopoulos, for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, we are debating today the draft law amending the legislation in force which governs the submission of statements of assets and declarations of financial interests. This is a bill aimed at increasing efficiency in combating corruption. But the debate on the bill of the Ministry of Justice is that it is being held in low barometric conditions because of the recent crisis in the government that goes beyond the internal-government problems and affects the interests of the country. Mr Ministers, you are both Ministers for Justice here - you have been at a meeting of the Ministerial Council for which the whole of the country has learned - and not only - that the Minister for National Defence of the country has denounced the country's Minister for Foreign Affairs of opaque secret funds for foreign investors who invest in our country in order to serve their own interests. That's what's leaking. Mr. Kammenos has not been denied. In fact, Mr Kotzias confirmed them yesterday in an interview and from what we have learned, both Ministers for Justice and Justice in this debate of the Ministerial Council have been abducted. Indeed, today I have heard you here talking to a Member of Parliament, Mr Amyras, who is asking questions about these issues, and saying that they cannot stand in any way. But to Mr. Kammenos, you must say this to your co-pilot. And you should've told the Ministerial Council when you were supposed to. This is a major issue, beyond the political irrationality of the case, that the Foreign Minister, who supported the Prespecies Agreement, who also supported Mr Tsipras, has resigned, and has remained Mr Kammenos, who is against the Prespecies Agreement. So we have this political absurdity about a government with a Minister of National Defence who opposes this story. Mr Statakis, do you also have an opinion on this matter at the Ministerial Council? Do you have anything to say to the world that listens to us in the Greek Parliament and to the citizens about what has been done and what has been said? Mr. Kammenos has been said. They haven't come first to tell people of counterpopulation. One is that. Mr Stathakis, you have brought four amendments, I think, three for the IGM and another one. If this is a way of making good the law, please tell us to know that. We agree on a number of amendments, such as the one on the IGM. I do not know, of course, if everyone's retrospectives are covered, I do not know if there has been any improvement in this matter. However, some of which we agree are being tabled at the last moment. We really see them in the debate 'and five'. I am referring to Mr Kalogeros because he was the Secretary-General of the Ministerial Council who had to deal with this matter, and indeed to the committees he said that many times he has been faced with this issue, but that continues and is being extended, and in this way there is no way of monitoring what comes every time in a bill. In fact, he accepted them as soon as you filed them and before we had time to see them. I don't know when the minister responsible has been able to see them. This is not how we can continue to legislate. But I'm going to justice. The general crisis I am referring to in addition to its specific weight moves the lights of publicity from another serious issue to that of justice. So we now have the issue more widely of justice. Look, Mr Ministers, today - I have heard you mention, too, the rapporteur for the Democratic Incorporation, Mr Papatheodorou - has seen the publicity of the decision to guard Mr Papantoniou from Greek justice. We want the independence of justice not a la carte, we want it in any case, and in this decision we follow it and seek the independence of justice and never come to it. In this case, I would remind you that here all the Members of the Democratic Independence voted in favour of a committee of inquiry in this case, for a former PASOK official who has certainly not even been a member of the wider space and of the wider party for ten years. Why am I saying that? Because when you refer to old civilian staff, I have heard Mr Janakopoulos talking to old political staff today - I do not know if you are looking in your mirror at the Ministerial Council as well. I do not need to bring examples of ministers involved in the country's old political staff, because it is not a personal matter, it is a political one. Of course there must be an in-depth investigation and wherever there is evidence of corruption there must also be penalties. We have a clear position in this. You in your government were dealing with justice when you did not like justice decisions, in a way of discrediting the Council of State on television licences and many other matters. I have heard you, Mr Papagelopoulos, and to Mr Papatheodorou answer that others must have a concern for courts. I hope this is not a threat. I hope that your reference to other courts to the rapporteur for the Democratic Incorporation will not constitute threats to judges or to those who report cases.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u107	That's not what I said. I'm never threatening...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u108	There must be a clarification in this, because, you understand, when we say 'Others to have a matter for other courts', this can be understood in any way. I could say a lot of examples on the basis of which I think the government has an increasing intensity in relation to the issues of justice. Attacks on judicial officers to deal with serious cases? Have you ever referred to Mr Polakis and put him in his place as competent Justice Ministers for what he says at times as unauthorised Minister for Health in relation to justice matters? May I remind you of the anti-institutional intervention of the Minister of National Defence in the case of "NOOR 1"? It is not the end of the list of government interventions in the work of justice. The limits have been lost long ago. Systemically overlooking the fact that the constitutionally established independence of justice must be respected and shielded in practice. Just a few words about the bill. It's moving in a positive direction. It could be even more perfect, without ambiguities and gaps, if social dialogue was wider and inclusive. For example, I was impressed by the fact that the draft law was not sent to the Economic and Social Committee and the reply to a complaint on the subject that they could find it online, as she said at the hearing. The social dialogue promotes democracy and the institutional functioning of the state. Its absence or where appropriate its presence is debilitating both. Also, this bill could have come sooner, shortly after S.H.E.'s decision. that annulled the NCA by which the contents of the statement of assets were to be determined. But since I am talking about the fact that it came a year later, there are a number of issues that are being raised and you need to give some answers here. There is a memorandum from the Association of Judges of the Council of State, the Association of Judges and the Prosecutors, the Association of Judges of the Court of Auditors and the Association of Prosecutors of Greece, in which it refers to the issue that had been judged unconstitutional by the Council of State, that the change, as the memorandum states, of the draft law establishes the obligation to declare cash money, since the total amount now exceeds 30,000 and since its value exceeds 40,000. However - it says the Union - by the decision of the Council of State was considered that regardless of the amount of cash and the value of the movables for which the obligation is laid down, this is essentially contrary to the Constitution. Does something change, or will we be in front of unconstitutionalism again, based on this data? But I also see the report by the Parliamentary Scientific Service very carefully simply mentioning in introductory terms what has been judged on the TSE last time: "They fall into the sphere of private family life of the debtors, as this is information referring to a natural person. In addition, the obligation to include funds in cash and so on. constitutes a restriction on the right of those responsible for the protection of their personal data.’; In short, it is very carefully referred to and gives the image of a new unconstitutionality of this law. Can you give assurances that with this change only of amounts, which is done, we will not have the same problems again? As regards regulations, therefore, for administrative fines and criminal penalties, I would like to say this: of course, the control mechanism must be made more effective and more stringent in all these matters, so that we can prevent them. But he wants attention because if he is judged unconstitutional again, we will actually do nothing. We're gonna blow a hole in the water once more and stay exactly the same problem. Of course, only the threat of fines and penalties is not sufficient to break the problem of corruption. Fines and penalties require the identification of the offence, which in turn requires thorough and systematic checks, and there is a great deficit here. With regard to the amendments which have been incorporated into articles in the bill here, the 12-month extension to a provision that has been characterised by many institutional factors as counterproductive to justice - I am referring to the Act of Friday - I do not need to say much, as they have been said in committees. I would say no more permanent, as the former Minister of Justice was committed to bringing the new code to the vote by the end of 2017. It ends in 2018 and we're still waiting for him. In fact, in addition to the delays in the new Criminal Code, it should, of course, be linked when it comes, and to the implemented penitentiary and anti-criminal policy, which falls short of other European countries. But going back for another year, which you won't probably be in the government, means you're basically not going to fix and deposit the new Criminal Code. If there's anything different, tell us. But you are going too late, so there is a law, for which Mr Paradoxopoulos himself at some point said that there is a need for a new Criminal Code so that we can move forward. However, we remain with the same problems. Not to mention the conflicting statements made by the Civil Protection Ministers, with Mrs Gerovalis, the Minister, and Mrs Papacostas calling for her to be abolished. We are talking about a government which, in the critical foreign policy, the Law of Friday and so on, has different positions within the Ministerial Council. The two Ministers are assigned to the Ministry of Citizen Protection differently. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and Defence has so far taken different positions, but also from now on. Ladies and gentlemen, transparency and accountability in relation to political staff and their assets must undoubtedly be shielded in the best way possible. At the same time, however, it is necessary to justify the origin of the resources which lead to the possession of mobile and immovable property, so that we do not see any such phenomena again, because it is not a question of finding and falling at that time on a subject. That will continue to be the case. But if we do not tackle the problem at the root and if we do not create an institutional framework that can deal with it, we will always be faced with all these issues and we will all come before surprise if this situation continues. At this point the political system has not yet given an answer. Effective controls are needed and it is a time-consuming issue to which I am referring now. It's not about a government. We need to prevent corruption at all levels. There is a gap and we see it every day in all areas. A combination of a new Criminal Code with applied penitentiary and anti-criminal policy is needed. And since I spoke a moment ago in the Act of Friday, I would like to ask you a question: why is the question of terrorist acts not added to the exceptions? Why do you not make the exceptions to this law, the amendment you have brought in and the case of committing terrorist acts, so that they do not fall within what is being done? It is a question which needs answer and which has been put to you in the relevant committees. Ladies and gentlemen, above and above all, we need respect for and practice the constitutionally established independence of justice, without insulting, without interference, without governmental bilingualism, without questioning justice and the independent authorities. The gap here is great and must be covered immediately.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr. Theocharopoulos. Mr Georgios-Dimitrios Karras has the floor from the Democratic Association for seven minutes. Immediately after the speech Mr. Psychogios and Mr. Mavrotas, a Parliamentary representative from the Potami, will have the floor. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr President. I have been centered and will continue with issues of deconcentrating law, which is currently coming - if I am not mistaken - for the third time since 2015. Before all, I will make a very brief historical retreat about what it has done or what it has not done. On one hand, it yielded the decongestion of prisons and possibly the humanisation of the living conditions of the detainees, on the other hand it gave rise to huge discussions about whether it helped reduce crime or creates conditions for further crime. It is a difficult issue, a crucial issue of anti-crime policy, which - at least in our view - cannot be guided by temporary - alleged - law or extension provisions. Of course, there are interpretative questions which are raised under the law and I would like to give examples, Mr President. The first example is the abbreviation of certain provisions of existing decongestive law. It is said that a number of serious crimes are exempted from the release - this is what protects society from serious crime - but if we go through two, three paragraphs below, we see that it leaves an open 'Windows' so that they can carry out by house arrest or by the well-known 'Bronze' these serious penalties. I don't have any evidence to tell if he paid or didn't pay off. I do not know whether this provision has been implemented by prisoners concerned, but it is true that it leaves this 'window'. Of course, there are also more critical issues in the provisions, as they have been and are being extended. I must say that he has not been vacant and has never actually been answered if after the current condition of dismissal, as provided for by the well-known decongested law - not to call him a Friday's law, you will allow me to do so - the deportation provisions for foreigners have been implemented, for those who had been sentenced to criminal penalties, for criminal offences and had to be deported after the sentence has been carried out. We haven't heard of that evidence yet. We hope that this will be discussed some time in this House. I will now move on to a next issue, to the actual application of the existing law, in relation to the change in the conditions of revocation of the current condition of dismissal. In the past - in the current state of law, until the new law was passed - the law said this: If five years have elapsed since the dismissal and a new crime has been committed, but has not been condemned irreversibly, then the previous sentence is now considered to be fulfilled. One wonders whether, in Greek reality, a serious criminal act - particularly a felony - has been convicted within five years. A postponement of the trial, an interruption of the trial, and over and over five years. You will allow me to say, because I have a legal perversion, that this provision is a form of special limitation of penalties, in that if we do not get the trial of the new criminal following the dismissal of an act within the five-year period - and as I have already said, it is impossible for us to have the irrevocable vengeance of a criminal, malicious act, because you know, Minister, the difficulty of hearing these cases - we are giving him abduction of sin. Today with the new provisions proposed to be voted on, do we give greater forgiveness to sin? The new provision says that 'yes, we will not apply five years, we will apply Article 109 of the Criminal Code as a fixed provision, which will refer to the cumulative valuation of penalties, for the remaining time of the first and total for the second'. Here, Minister, there is a huge problem of timeless law and application, if you like, of the most urgent criminal law, because both the execution of the sentence and detention in a prison store is no longer a procedural matter, but essential, because it is about depriving the right to freedom. I would therefore like to ask the following questions, if you would like with this perversion that I mentioned before, to address and to deal with criminal matters and to put a final stop to the exercise of an anti-crime policy: So we have someone who has temporarily been released free of decongestion by the law, who today, before the new law was passed, has done a heavy malicious act, and after a short time - five, seven years, you are not putting a limit on the rest of the sentence on serious crimes - is tried and sentenced to a new sentence. But before that, he'll have a total of the rest of the sentence. What law is he going to do with it? If the five years of the previous law have already passed as a more urgent one, should you not let him go, because this will have given up his sentence? I'll wait for some answers to these. The second question: '... unless it is less than three years old and it is three years old'. It is known that no three-year prison sentence exists. Everything is now turned, everything is now suspended. At least in terms of crimes of a delinquent nature for up to five years, we have not seen prisons fill up with them, nor do we want to fill them with slight crime. However, these will be dealt with by the judges in the process of implementing this law and, in my view, difficult issues will arise over the period of validity of these provisions. So we say that we want to curtail serious crime. When the state, the government, unintentionally - I am not saying willingly, I am not saying that there are other secret thoughts that are undisclosed - knowing that it cannot be tried irrevocably by a criminal - and, in fact, serious - act, it leaves them free, we are not giving a signal to the society of this kind of infraction, that 'you can do something else in the future, do not fear the previous sentence because the remaining time has passed'. And I should like to speak as a lawyer: it is easy to postpone in the courts, it is easy for pre-trial courts and we can in five years make seven, the unacceptable legal means to bring them back, to make eight and until the irrevocable. Think of these, if you want to conduct a proper anti-crime policy. I don't want to go into any more technical details. I put them under the crisis of both the Ministry and the legal colleagues. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr. Carras. Mr Psychogios has the floor on behalf of SYRIZA. There are Mr. Mavrotas, Mr. Athanasios and Mrs. Kozobol. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u112	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are attending an extensive debate and a debate on justice. I would like to begin with this because in a favoured and coordinate state justice is considered and must be independent. I think that the Minister responsible has rightly put it out of discussion, saying that we cannot discuss this here and analyse whether justice is independent. It is considered and must be independent in a favoured state. From there on, however, as a colleague has already heard, we in this House are giving the tools to justice, but also to the wider administrative system in order to implement the law. In this sense, therefore, one cannot forget that in the former Government of New Democracy - PASOK, where it focused on the interest of justice, of administrative and prosecution authorities, they were in people who, because of a crisis, were not able to pay their contributions, were unable to pay their public debts due precisely to the difficulties they faced. An entire system forced these people to be dragged to police stations, to courthouses, to be troubled and to be deceived. We also saw people who could not have access to public hospitals and gave 5 euros and went and confirmed that to the tax. The left government, which abolishes these provisions and for the sake of justice, is coming, but also for the purpose of dismantling the judicial system from these cases and, of course, of eradicating what is due to the ERC. So these are the moves that we have to say, we have to show them and show the tools that a justice can use toward those who are targeting and to those with whom it is working. I now come to the bill we are discussing today, which serves the basic priority of this government for transparency and equality in all areas. These provisions on the electronic submission of the assets to which they come come are designed to strengthen and improve the existing framework and have been formulated on the basis of international standards, following comments and an exchange of views with the control mechanisms, taking into account the decision of the Council of State. This bill is very important, because it responds to the need to control all functions and powers and is part of anti-corruption policies, in line with the requirements of international texts that we have already ratified as a country. Amongst other things, it is adapted to modern family law, i.e. integrating the cohabitation pact, clarifys the obligation for both spouses and spouses to submit information, and resolves other procedural issues that have arisen in the past. These provisions will help in particular the work of the Committee of Parliament on where you were and I think we should all serve them. I would also like to say what the chairman of the committee responsible, Mrs Christodoulopoulos, has said, that the committees so far had to be better worked out, better preparation, more proposals, which have to do with the bill itself, by shaping these requirements, in order to implement it in practice, as the citizens demand. How can this be done, however, when, in spite of the importance of this bill, since the first day of the process, the opposition has monopolized its attack and interest in extending the decongested provision of the prisons, i.e. Law No.4322/2015, which has never been heard by its number rather than by the Act of Friday. And so it is not for any other reason, but for the Minister and the entire SYRIZA government to be targeted again and again and again at the then Minister in charge. So let us remember once again in this Chamber what is n.4322/2015. It is the law that abolished Type III prisons, i.e. prisons in prison, where basic rights are not granted to the prisoners. We saw what happened in the Domos prisons, with the 'nuclear bomb' that was created there, when they started to be implemented. It has abolished the provisions of incarceration in a number of minor offences, as demanded by European and international law. It provided favorable arrangements to prisoners, AME and over-aged, facilitated choices for rehab and treatment of drug addicted and created second opportunity schools in prisons. In my region there is the school of juvenile prisons, which is supported and operated in an exemplary way. It also enabled mothers with children up to eight years of age - in infants, that is - to perform their sentence with a bracelet under house arrest. Let us not forget, too, that this law - something which is not often mentioned - is a good thing to discuss here in this House, because we do not have the opportunity in the media - has for the first time been criminalised by the bulling, and after the amendment of SYRIZA MPs, the famous 'cousin' was abolished, which was legally unacceptable and aimed at terrorizing young and people's struggles. Our objective is therefore a human penitentiary system based on the idea of respect for dignity and the effective reintegration of former prisoners into society. With the bill, what we're talking about, we put the first stone in this effort. In order to complete this process, however, to democratise and humanise the penitentiary system, further interventions are needed - through the Penal and Criminal Code very soon, according to the Minister responsible - and, of course, to apply alternative penalties to make the system fairer for everyone. There have also been similar initiatives from the previous governments, which also remain silent. They did not, however, include all the rest for the overall - as we said - upgrading and functioning of the penitentiary system. And one wonders: Do they dream of going even further behind these democratic principles that start from Plato to Enlightenment? Did they put the convict on the scale on the one hand and the blind punishment and revenge on the other? Do they want us to kill people? What's their clear position? I say this because there was a dimension within the committee between Mr Vorides and Mr Karaguini. Clearly what they want. According to the report, there is evidence that the Law of Friday has not increased crime. These were reported by the Minister responsible during the debate in committee, as well as the fact that there is a body of sentences by the European Court of Human Rights - forty in the number - EUR 2 million fines for the country. So this debate is another dividing line between us and shows weakness, but also refusal, planning and implementing such democratic and progressive policies. In fact, we have brought several bills that are in the logic of defending rights and we will bring much more to the end of our term of office, because for us man is the focus, without exceptions and without asterisks. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Since, therefore, I hear in television and in the public speech several colleagues from the New Democracy, attack, terrorise, fear the world on the basis of all these debates - because there they will invest up to the election time - I would like to close, Mr President, with an excerpt from what Manos Hatzidakis said and wrote, not a left-wing, but a liberal, fascist, in response to these screams: 'Fascism in our day as an antisocial and antihuman behaviour' - as Hatzidakis says - '... appears in two forms. Or provocative, with the pretext of reacting to political or social events that do not favour their case or passive, in which fear dominates what is happening around us. Tolerance and passivity, then. And that's how the challenge is consolidated. With the tolerance of many. Better slow and silent death than the reaction of the living and sensitive organism that we contain." We are therefore voting in favour of the bill, Mr President, and we are also awaiting the next initiatives of the Ministry of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr. Psychoyo. The Parliamentary spokesman from Potami Mr George Mavrotas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr President. I will not dwell in particular on the draft law on the electronic statement of assets, because our speaker, Mr Amyras, said so in detail. I shall just turn to Amendment No 1776/158, which has been made to Article 14, which concerns the release of detainees for health reasons. I am particularly going to stand by the second paragraph, because we had asked a question on 6 September asking for information on the release of invalidity certificates. At that time, we talked about "irrigation" of justice, because if the release depends only on certain certificates, in Greece we know how they are issued and that some VIP prisoners could buy them. It is also known, for example, that blindness certificates on some islands had more circulation than newspapers. Therefore, the Minister's reply on 10 October showed that the disability releases amount to three hundred forty-one in three years 2015-2018. Of these three hundred and twenty-three are by the law of Mr. Paraskevi - the decongestive law, as we can call it - when in the five years 2009-2014 it was only fifty-seven. In other words, they have spread over the past three years over the past five years. The bad news isn't that they've been depleted. The bad news is that in Greece every window of beneficial devices is slowly transformed into balconies and then, when the situation is over, horizontal measures are taken and with the dry ones are burned and the cool ones are burned. Before we get there, then, we must make sure that any beneficial provisions are not exploited by those who have the means. The specific amendment tabled one day before the Ministry's answer to our question, which obviously relates, indeed sets a stricter framework. How? It strengthens the role of judges so that they are not merely wheelchairmen of opinions. It is also possible to request expert advice even if there is certification by the CEPR, and decisions can be taken if the certificates are proven to be plausible. That is all for this amendment. Now let me get through a little bit of news. For Mr Papantoniou, Mr Amyras said so before. I would remind you that we were the only ones on the pre-examination committee for Mr Papantoniou who insisted that the investigation be continued in this particular case. In our neighborhood now, the entropy has begun to increase with the Turks to play their famous games with the "AROS" to ride to the Cypriot EEZ and the government is concerned with the exterior statement by Mr Kotzia for a partial expansion of the territorial waters to twelve miles from the Ionian to the Antikytheras. All of this shows how urgent it is that a robust, long-term foreign policy is needed in our country, which will not be shaped by farewell statements of Ministers, but will have stable and permanent features. So this shows how urgent the need to create the National Security Council is, as part of the proposal for a law tabled by the Potami. Some conversations started, but they were frozen. If the National Security Council had been in existence for a year, I believe that many of our foreign policy knots would have been solved in an intergroup and consensual manner. So, let us urge Mr Tsipras and Mr Tsipras from here, from the step of the House, and the cap of the Foreign Minister - I say this transportly, I do not mean Mr Kotzia's legendary hat - to take the initiative to move this forward. The committee met yesterday on the Greeks' vote abroad, as the Minister responsible for the Interior informed us. In our opinion, it is a very important issue, a very important task that must be completed in time so that the former Minister, Mr Skourletis, does not disprove when he had said a few months ago that we will discuss this matter within this parliamentary term. It is very important, because we cannot all shed crocodile tears for 'brain', but do nothing to facilitate their participation in the elections as if we were interested in their opinion. The extrovert, creative Greece must be present in developments so that the ties with the country are strengthened and not weakened. So let us urge them to step up their efforts in this committee so that we can get the conclusion in January, as Mr Haritsis said. And we will be here to keep a close eye on this. Another issue that opens up is that of the constitutional review, of course, in which we have the ability as a political system to reach consensus, provided that there are wider compositions and not exclusions. Consensus is always a currency that has two sides. I will go to my favourite subject, which is also timely, unfortunately, for the wrong reasons, that of education. Over the past few days, we have been witnessing extremely decadent phenomena. Today, the Athens University of Economics is closed after a decision of the Senate, a symbolic closure to protest the dramatic situation with drugs, "in order to activate the competent bodies of the State", as the Senate's decision says. At the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, professors namefully and also students report similar phenomena. Ruvikon has occupied a hall in Philosophy, wanting to play the role of the student patron or whatever they say. Today, indeed, we also had a chain from the Republican authorities and teachers, so that the "Rubicon" does not pass the "Rubicon" gate of the Philosophy School. Our universities are headlines for the wrong reasons, because with your policy they have become absolutely unholy for those who are supposed to have been created, students and teachers. So instead of discussing how to get into the lists of the world's two hundred best universities in the world, the Greek universities will be discussing how state forces will get out of the drug dealers. The university asylum protecting the trafficking of ideas, now we have ended up protecting drug trafficking. Do we accept that? For all this, we asked the House yesterday and we will wait with interest for the answers, although the Ministry ignores us and does not answer them. We hope that this time he will answer. Where the Minister wonders where the students are - the Roman student movement - to protect his premises, he takes the answer to his own office the next day. He takes it from dozens of students and students who break up with "so I want" in his office and he sits with the cameras and picks up the conversation with them. When there is no dialogue framework, why the dialogue in front of the cameras? To play the play that we're friendly and listen to the kids? But if the Minister, the senior state official on education, accepts such conduct, how will a dean react tomorrow or a school manager in similar behaviours? When this image makes the round of the country, with the Minister to legalise this behaviour by discussing with the intruders, what message does it send to the 16-year-olds and 17-year-olds who see these on television? He tells them that they have the right to shut up everywhere and to complicate the teacher, the school manager, to yell at him and go up to his office. "Here the Minister accepts them..." -they will tell you - "...a school manager will not accept them." Ladies and gentlemen, images like these do not promote the emancipation of young people. On the contrary, it is butter on the far right that rubs its hands by looking at such images. Because the carpet is then turned on for an agenda which is made up of "law and order" to the ultimate positive level, which leads to the deprivation of basic freedoms. We must also take care of that. When we do not put the framework in which any debate can take place with anyone - without rules - the thing becomes a jungle. In the jungle, you know, there's no democracy. Whoever we've been through the universities, we're, unfortunately, accustomed to such images. But everyone who creates and supports them know that they are throwing water into the mill of indignation of the citizens who are slowly turning into the adoption of an agenda for the other end, the far right. In closing, we are living in difficult times, with a significant increase in entropy on the international roundabout, we are financially and geopolitically balanced on a stretched rope. A lot doesn't depend on us. They're exogenous variables. There are, however, some who depend on us. They're our decision variables. So a minimum of understanding, even in the middle of an election period, because we are already in a pre-election period, is necessary. It won't stop the world turning around, waiting for us to go to elections in May, I guess. Around us developments run and leave us behind. We must therefore all think that the elections are not the end, but the beginning of a new day and that we must not move on to the ruins left by the election period. The style of political controversy therefore plays its part in this delicate balance that the country is walking. The arson controversy on all sides does not only burn the opponent. It burns the country's chances of giving credibility and trust. The number one uncertainty factor for our country is the political scenery. The more the government and, in general, the political staff show immaturity, the more the country loses credibility in the international economic and geopolitical environment. Reliability and trust is something that is evaporating easily and condensed hard. And we need her as much today as we ever need her. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u115	Thank you very much to Mr Mavrota, Parliamentary spokesman from the river. Mr Charalambos Athanasios has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u116	Mr President, could I have the floor for a legal improvement?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u117	Minister, then if you're kind. Here, Mr. Athanasios, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, if we were to do our work seriously in the context of parliamentaryism, we would have to vote against today's draft law, just - apart from all others - for it would again, by amendment, extend your own law. I am referring to No 4489/2017 and, in particular, Articles 43 and 44. It is a law that has led to early releases of hundreds of barbecues, which has created a body of early releases for supposedly health reasons, which has been condemned by society and despite the changes that have been made, both by Mr Contonis and Mr Kalogeros, it must not be allowed to attend for yet another day. Let us remember that the amendments overshadow many times the main piece of legislation. Their fragmentary vote makes us lose the great picture, which is that we are here to guarantee the security of our fellow citizens. As we are losing the picture, of course, of how the government perceives the functioning of justice if it is limited only to the statements made by Mr Polakis. Going to the main piece of legislation on where you were going, I still do not understand why we had to go all the way here - let me say this - thanks to the stubbornness of some of the government, which, contrary to what we have all said, has actually led to the annulment of control, following the decisions of the Council of State. In other words, the government has received a system that was working and with a pretext for its improvement it has led to inertia. Today, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you are bringing in a piece of legislation which is still not certain to be judged by the courts. For example, the arrangements in Article 5(2) with which the members of the Audit Committee are appointed by the Presidents of the relevant courts and not by the judiciary boards, as is provided for in Article 90 - I shall refer to a little - of the Constitution. In particular, their judicial officers and their alternates, in accordance with the provision, are appointed by a decision of the Presidents of the relevant courts and the Advocate-General of the Ice Authority, after being served for two years in the committee - take care, Minister, with full and exclusive employment. There is therefore an issue of unconstitutionality, because Article 9 of the Constitution says that the promotions, placements and secondments of judges are made by a presidential decree following a decision of the Supreme Court. It is therefore a placement that is done. It is not right, - it may be wrong to interpret the Deputy Minister for Justice, referring to 89 - because here the tasks are judicial, it is not audit. And so it is, if I read Article 89 to you, that we are not told by the law 'the law will determine'. The law may provide that, exceptionally, the former university teachers may be designated or exercised by judicial authorities. Yes, it can be done, to carry out judicial duties, to exercise control, but we have lex specialis, a special provision of the 1990s. Who's gonna appoint them? That's the problem. They will be appointed by the Supreme Judicial Council and I fear that we will have cancellations in respect of the committee's ratification duties. In addition, the new arrangements you bring about for the obligation to declare cash and big-value mobiles are of dubious constitutionality too. They are, of course, contrary to the decision of the Council of State, on 2649 2017. I, of course, have no desire to prejudge court rulings. After all, I am not a State Secretary for Health who has, as far as SYRIZA is concerned, obtained the right to do so. But since New Democracy is suddenly and without asterisks for the constant control of all the debtors, I hope your choices will not lead to any paralysis of the system again and will not need a third time - yes, third time - to trouble the debtors, to submit the same statements, since, thanks to your actions, they will have to resubmit the statements from the previous years. In particular, Article 2(3) of the bill imposes a statement of cash of more than EUR 30 000 and prices, when it is more than EUR 60,000. Does it matter that you changed the amount from EUR 15,000 to EUR 30,000 and from EUR 30,000 to EUR 40,000? Mr Papagelopoulos, had asked you and a relevant question from Mr Javaras - if I do not remember well, to deny me - in August 2016. It was a piece of legislation at the time, before the law was passed and why this bill did not go to committee at the beginning of the debate. Of course, you gave an answer there, but the 2016 opinion of the Privacy Authority said that. Indeed, if you look at the scientific report from the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, you will see that they identify you with this omission and that it can create issues. Please take a look at it. With regard to Article 7(2), strict penalties shall be provided for failure to submit or submit incorrect or incomplete declarations. I think the old legislation was better. It made a distinction which said that, although the penalties were strict and stricter when of course someone took advantage of their position and took up these penalties. [[At this point, the closing bell of the honourable Member's speech hits a warning bell.]] Mr President, I would like a little of your tolerance. In addition, the bill has other problematic arrangements, such as the one in Table 7 of Annex 1, on the basis of which the debtors are required to declare not only the amounts they have deposited but also where they come from. I want to give you this example, and please take care of it. Let's assume someone in an account at the National Bank has 100,000 euros from salaries, rents, donations, legacy, and anything else. At the same time, however, it's making withdrawals. These go into the same account and get capitalized. If he makes a withdrawal, if he goes and gets 5,000 or with the card, he pays to shops at times 500 euros sometimes 300 euros. How am I supposed to know the rest of the money corresponds to the wages, the rents or the donations? [[This is where the ending bell of the honourable Member's speech is ringing.]] Mr. President, please. Other colleagues have spoken a little more. That's not what I'm saying. I just think these are key issues to correct the legislation. Look at this because it cannot be checked, because, as I explained, it is consolidated. In addition, point 14 of Article 1 of the bill provides for the imposition of declarations from where it was from 1-12-2018-28-2-2018 for the years 2016, 2017, 2018, i.e. retroactively. I ask now: How will these statements be judged when we make them in 2018 or in any time? Will the legal status be judged on the current or the time that has to be submitted? This is a matter. It's going to cause huge problems if it's going to work. In other words, the current system that will be voted on or the time when it is imposed. Further Article 4(5). You say that the check is carried out within five years of the end of the submission year, unless there is evidence of criminal liability. The audit may then be carried out until the criminal infringement of the offences has been completed. Despite your legislative improvement, it remains the question: Who will tell us about the evidence of criminal responsibility? The Authority? The D.A. who may be conducting a preliminary examination? The interrogator? Or the Public Administration Inspector? Do not forget that the Council of State has said that the maximum must be five years. As you know, when it's a felony and we have a temporary prison, the limitation is fifteen years old, and in life it's 20 years old if it was done by the law on public abuses. So, you're going to come after thirteen years, regardless of criminal responsibilities, to demand that someone keep 15 years of evidence for his statement 15 years ago? That wasn't in the law. I wonder why you did it. Be careful, Minister. I am now referring to Mr Kalogeros who is young. Remove this provision because it is too dangerous. I'm not talking about today. It can also lead to many abuses of pressure by those who will do checks to cause problems in political opponents. Can you tell me why you disqualified the Citizens' Counselor from the committee? That's right. You raised the committee. Why did you remove the Citizens' Counselor, who is the chief civil protector and put the Chief of Public Administration in his place? I don't understand that. I don't like something here. Why did you do it? Please reinstate the Citizen's Counsel. I don't want to get tired anymore. Thank you for your tolerance, Mr President. I think it was basically what I said. It's a rough bill, and it's malicious. But in any case, since it was decided that we would vote in principle, I cannot object any more. We are not going to vote on a few articles. There are basic regulations which it introduces and which, of course, cannot be voted on. Mr Paradise's parliamentary amendment abolishes in 407 for begging. Mr. Paradise is here. I believe, Minister, that it is wrong. Don't take it. Let's see her again. I'll tell you why. Because this amendment prevents the exploitation of the innocence of citizens. In any case, it is a bad picture for our country. We are now seeing the beggars who have filled the country and have filled much more with foreigners and all of them. But let's assume you're abolishing it. You're not telling us what's going to happen with 409. Look at 409. It has been abolished in 408 for punctuality, abolished in 407. Did you think about what's going to happen in 409? Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr. Athanasios. Mr Minister, you have the floor for the legislative improvement you referred to earlier.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u120	I have a small legal improvement. The exception is extended for those who are permanently available, provided for the men of the Security Bodies and for the ports and those who are in the Fire Corps. Where it is under permanent availability, it shall not be required to submit a declaration anywhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Minister. Please share in this House too. We proceed with Mrs Panagiota Kozobol - Amanatidis, a SYRIZA Member, who has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President-in-Office, the amendment of the legislation on the statement of assets is necessary, especially after the Council of State and the United Nations Convention against Corruption. It is in a positive direction to ensure the transparency and accountability of those responsible for managing our country's public affairs. In this spirit, therefore, the cycle of debtors is widened, with the inclusion of spouses and those who have entered into a cohabitation agreement with the obligors, with the Directors-General of the Ministries, while in the school committees or alternate members of the collective bodies ordinary non-individual citizens are no longer liable. In a positive direction, therefore, the statement of the securities and valuables, the granting of a deadline for the submission of outstanding declarations, the provision that the prosecutors and judges declare their debt obligations, the extension of the Audit Committee and the electronic submission of the statement. I think that all this is in a positive context. I shall go further and refer to the amendment, which has now been incorporated into the draft law and which has now become an article, which extends for one year the application of Articles 43 and 44 of Law 4489/2017, which means the conditional release of detainees who have served part of their sentence, with a view to decommissioning prisons. In this respect, ladies and gentlemen, we are witnessing an operation to falsify reality. There's a big hypocrisy going on here. The people responsible for the bankruptcy of the country, those who handed it over looted and raccooned, are invoking the current government, which is pulling it out of the economic crisis. They're insulting her for alleged destruction. There are constant prophecies of destruction, but they are not confirmed. Prophecies that the evaluation will not be closed, we will not get out of the memorials, pensions will be cut, etc. And every time a disastrous account of counterpopulation is not confirmed and collapsed, there's an ace in the sleeve. There's this ace permanently. Who? Crime. It's a card that's played with a lot of courage, bet on the fear of citizens. And there is, of course, another favorite issue, that of manipulation of justice. Those who have given constitutional power to the provisions on the fundamental impunity of the ministers and are now asking for elections precisely to ensure that this privilege is not re-examined and lost, those who did not see the corruption cases blooming next to them, those who are aware that the alleged interventions by this government in justice, which hypocritically denounced by means of parliamentary scrutiny, have been succumbing to the present government for manipulation of justice. Let me go back to decongestion. Ladies and gentlemen, if we want security for society, the creation of penalties must be done safely, reliable, transparent and respectful. The current government has become sections for the normal life of prisons. It has been given great importance to reintegration, and with these assumptions, interventions have been made to improve detention facilities, to build cultural sites, tours, tours, children's visits, to meet the prisoners with their partners, education and vocational training structures. All of this prepares the prisoner for his life after prison. Integrating the deported into the family smoothly and in society in general is averting the repetition of crime and that is a security for society. However, all that I have said can't be done when in a prison the population that is hosted, the population of the prisoners, is twice as high as the one who can accommodate a prison. That is why decongestive provisions are necessary to ensure that there are limits on human life in prison and that imprisonment obeys the principle that freedom is deprived in conditions of dignity, safe detention and safeguarding others, except for the deprivation of freedom of rights. It is for this reason that such provisions have been constantly legislated since 1995. The need for decongested provisions also requires another parameter: the penalties of millions of euros for our country to pay for the inhumane conditions in prisons. Here let me say that our country has been praised for improving detention conditions in the past three years, despite the existing problems, instead of fines. I would like to point out that the beneficial decongested provisions exempt particularly serious offences, such as intent homicide, offences against minors, rape, misrespect, pornography, grabbing, etc., robbery and other offences, and stricter conditions have been provided for the remnant of the sentence in the event of recurring after the release. The amendment of the codes, Mr Minister, which - as we know - is mature, will permanently and institutionally transform the decongestion of prisons. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is hypocrisy, with false evidence, to incriminate L.4322/2015, while before 2015 all governments, both of the New Democracy and of PASOK, had passed relevant laws aimed at decongestion. Of course, L.4322/2015 innovated on the release of three main categories of detainees, disabled, minors and "hospitable" foreigners, because this category had ended the construction of their sentence but had not been deported and was illegally detained until then. I do not think anyone here from this Chamber, from all sides, has an objection to the three above-mentioned accusations. The amendment of Article 110 of the Criminal Code, which now comes as an article in today's bill, which reinforces the procedural principle of the court's moral freedom, sets insurers so as not to look at phenomena like what we have seen recently, with the release of healthy people, fraudsters, I would say, as a disabled person. However, this law, the so-called ‘Preparatory’, with regard to and with dismissal of common prisoners following an assessment of part of the sentence, had no significant changes from previous laws, i.e. that of 1996, 2012, 2014. In fact, these provisions have been made, in the context of the decongested prisons, rated prisons of prisoners who would in any case be fired a little later on. In other words, in many cases, the early release of these people is responsible for all the sufferings, ladies and gentlemen, which abide by this law? Of course, large groups of people have also been anticipated in the course. I would like to say here that the previous laws, and even New Democracy Law No 4274/14, also took more than ten years in the case of drugs, which in many cases also concerned trafficking. So it is unreasonable that crime should be attributed to a law, which, in particular, serious crime has not increased despite the opposite propaganda. Finally, I would like to state my agreement on the amendment to which a procedure for the reintroduction of penitentiary officials is under way in the current government of Municipal Police, from which the then Minister for Administrative Reform, Mitsotakis, had violently ceased. I would like to point out that this must be done with absolute care so that the positions of the departers can be covered with those who will be recruited under the IAS process which is under way so that there is no gap in the mid-term and we really have problems in keeping detention stores. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mrs. Kozobol, SYRIZA Parliament. The Parliamentary spokesman for the People's League - Golden Dawn, Mr Panayotaros, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to wish the new minister a good career in the Ministry of Justice, regardless of whether he and other colleagues did not respond to parliamentary scrutiny for constitutional reasons, as he says. It is legal, it knows what the truth is and to remind him that 'root is and turns'. Mr Papantoniou's detention came to remind us again, even at the right time in a bill on 'possibly you', many things. First of all, that - and I reply to the question by the previous Member of the New Democracy Parliament, Mr Tasoula, about the honour of the political world - this price of the political world has been overshadowed. And, secondly, that whatever laws are passed on to 'outside', for control, if there is no will, then all these laws are self-determined, they are abolished. And before I remind you of many reasons which confirm the two above, I would like to reply to the PASOK Parliamentary spokesman, who was justified by Mr Papantoniou saying: 'But for ten years he has not been a member of us', it is not one, it is not the other. So far, I think you have a football team around the eleven former ministers, not to talk about other executives, who have either been convicted or convicted or sentenced, others have been released, because they have "chewed" they have taken hatreds, they have eaten the money of the Greek people, which were and are very necessary for the survival of this nation. I return to the reasons why the price of this political world, which has to do with 'from the outset', will always be in dispute over time. Reminding what had been done to another PASOK Minister, despite a little Chief and a little Prime Minister, Mr Tsochhatzopoulos, who at the time had come out of a number of bank accounts and the excuses - there are those in the committee's minutes - were that those were phone numbers and of course everyone who saw the whole process laughed, until some day it proved that they were bank accounts, which were even overshadowed by hatreds given by various people to do their jobs. Remember the forgotten millions of MPs or ministers who forgot to say in "outside you" and then, when they were on the surface, they were amending them in a number of ways, covering them up or doing them all, legitimately and nicely, often by legislative arrangements. In fact, in some cases when these came out and cases were coming about for the waiver of immunity of MPs, who had to deal with money of all kinds and forms, we saw things of oxymobile. And in order to become specific, when Mr.Michelakis' case had come, when they were looking to find the Golden Dawn arsenal and the illegal and "black" donors, a twelfth was found to Mr. Pallis who "lained" Mr.Michelakis to ask questions for his benefit, to the detriment of his competitors. When this case came to the Greek Parliament, there was no waiver of immunity because the SYRZIA Members also did not support this referral. And, of course, after a while, when a corresponding waiver of immunity came for Mr Stathakis, a case which at the University of Crete was missing some hundred thousand euros, which, instead of research, probably went to some pockets, we had the oxymoil of the sixteen or seventeen indictees and only one not to be referred back because he had parliamentary immunity: Mr Stathakis. Then the New Democracy did not vote in favour of this case being brought to court, and then we saw some procedures, came out of one piece, they were all acquitted, and it's all good and it's all good. Remind the various offshore companies which had various MPs or their relatives, spouses and others. When these cases saw the light of publicity, we heard various stories, misguided excuses, just to cover them up and ultimately, apart from a lot of noise, nothing is done about the substance. Let us remind you - for this famous honour of the political world and why the world has completely devalued the political world - these lists, the Lagard list, Boryans and others, in which there was a multitude of political people and their relatives first grade, with incredible undeclared money abroad. Finally, the formula was found, even though when you came in 2015 you had it first on your agenda. However, since the first period of your administration, in parliamentary scrutiny, in response to a timely question from the Member of the Golden Dawn, you said that 'we cannot control these lists'. You were saying, "You were saying, "But you've been collecting almost anything at all." The same ones who were on these lists now see them picking up public competitions, doing jobs and doing well and doing nothing at all and it's not anyone's fault. Let us remind you of many cases in the past of political persons, not only Members of Parliament, and others, who were raccooned into political life and went out undisturbed, undisturbed by old politicians, who, in their overwhelming majority, went with some income, with some assets and usually fled poor and raccoons. Let us remind you of other cases where politicians were chewing public money, such as this incredible 'Athens '97 scandal', which, because they were all PASOK officials, took twenty years to get the trial. There was a limitation on everyone's offences, but an unrelated one now, I think, the Court of Auditors is asking for some money behind some and does not take them. And we come now to see that this law has absolutely no value in what happened in the past few days with your own family, internal classrooming of members of your Government, Mr. Kammenos and Mr. Kotzias. The complaints on both sides were unbelievable! Something about George Soros's 50m euros, which is given to politicians to pass the Prespecies Agreement agenda. And he hasn't sweated anyone's ears, with your first and best, Minister, to ask for explanations either from Mr. Kammenos, from Mr. Kotzias or from anyone, to see what's going on here. This money, the tens of millions of euros, what is it? Where's the information? Where's the evidence? Because then there is slander or slander - but we see that no one is answering, no one is suing anyone - or something is going on. Or is this money going to be entered in 'wherever you were', will VAT, tax and everything well and there will be absolutely no problem? As you can see, the depreciation of the politician is timeless and continues until now, and this bill will have nothing more to offer than the previous bills for what has happened in previous years. We have also seen various amendments. Others were integrated, others didn't pass. I shall refer to the Act of Friday - as it is said - regarding the decongestion of prisons. That is the reasoning and justification. We also heard the previous Member - if I am not mistaken - of the SYRIZA who was speaking on this issue. With the situation in our country, with crime, with everything that is happening, as much as we emptied prisons, we will be emptied of them on the one hand and, on the other hand, fill it, either with them - who naturally laugh at the system of our country - or with young criminals and micro-crimes or anything else, which, in their vast majority, are also foreigners, illegal immigrants. They come here, after they've found a clear vine, and they do whatever they want to do literally. So, whatever you do, you'll need fifty laws of Paradise and extensions of prolongation to dismantle prisons, because you don't give a solution. We have heard some comments before on an amendment on begging. And I would like to make a comment. Once the Greek state gave permission to some people to beg because they needed it, and the whole world knew that these people really had our need and gave them little or much to help them out. In recent years, there has been an invading phenomenon - or whatever you want, say it - Roma from Bulgaria, from Albania, from Romania - Romanians and Bulgarians on account of the Schengen Treaty can and will go in and do whatever they want - who have nothing at all. It's a quirky industry. They take advantage of the pain of our fellow Greek. And here we have two phenomena. Firstly, there must be fraudsters who begg and take money, while they are not entitled. And secondly, and most importantly, real dissidents get into the pile and smack along with the crooks and many people put them all in the same fate. Finally, I would like to make a guess, although I think everyone here will know it, regardless of whether or not some people vote or vote in favour of the bill. Because a ravenous coral eye doesn't make it, what will happen with that bill, it'll be another hole in the water. As long as there's no will, there won't be any effect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u125	Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed to the next speaker, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the courtroom "ELLEROS VENIZELOS", forty-seven students and students and three teachers attending from the 1st General School of Pyrgos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Tell the students and the students that you are attending a meeting that is intended to examine a bill from the Ministry of Justice in order to become a state law. As you know, the House has two main functions: voting laws and parliamentary scrutiny by all Members to the government in various ways. Today you are following the development of a process on what I mentioned to you, namely the law of the Ministry of Justice. The speakers speak, and at the end we have the vote on the bill in order to become a state law. Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr President. I should first like to mention, Mr President, two amendments, which I consider to be very problematic. I do not know how one can actually function for the purpose for which you submitted it. I am referring to the amendment on the possibility of transferring the former municipal officials to the municipal police of the municipalities. It is unprecedented for me - and correct me, if I am wrong - to have a regulation that comes and whose completion is conditional on another condition. What's the other condition? It is necessary to complete the process of selecting staff for prisons, in accordance with notice 6K/2018, to have the final results obtained and to have taken any necessary steps to follow. We are talking about the need for all the selected medical advice, about the need for all of these five hundred selected athletics to pass, about the need for psychometric tests to be carried out on them, and, of course, about the need for those who are finally selected - because some who are not going to pass these tests must be replaced by others - to do the necessary training and all that in accordance with the amendment you have tabled must be done by 29 March 2019. The system will really be tested, so that within five months, and while the definitive results from the AACC have not yet come out, we can have the whole process completed. I think you know that it is impossible for this to be completed within five months. The question is why you are bringing this amendment. Why do you bring it under this necessary condition of completing the contract notice and taking up service by the successful ones? Just because we all understand - I imagine - that prisons can't stay without guard. Why is it the political purpose of having these people hostages that ultimately dominated and is coming at the moment without any real reason for this amendment? We agree that once the needs of prisons are met, with the completion of this competition, the possibility of transferring those who wish to return to Municipal Police will certainly be allowed. But is it possible to legislate on such conditions and to hide something very important, to me, from the people concerned at the moment, apparently swinging their handkerchief for the elections? What we are hiding is that, on the basis of Law 2190/1994 and Article 28 of this law, which applies to local authorities, namely municipalities, one month before the self-government elections and until the new municipal authorities take office, namely, from 20 April to 1 September, no operational change can be made to OTA staff. This transfer, recruitment, is considered to be such a personal change. The law clearly has only one exception, only urgent fixed-term contracts. This is the only exception to the law, which means that if it is not possible to complete the process in which you have adopted it, then we will be going in September in October. It's not bad to tell these people to know. It's bad to make fun of them. It is wrong to legislate, and we know that, for both substantial and technical reasons, this cannot happen in the space that you put in your signature as an essential condition and, of course, it serves a certain destiny. Minister, the New Democracy does not disagree on the logic of this amendment, since the competition will be completed, but we cannot accept such a legalisation with these conditions which you have set out, which, as well as legal issues, also raise as well as essentially in relation to the possibility of the IACC and the other procedures to be carried out and to conclude this procedure in five months. Here we are, ladies and gentlemen, and we will see. Right now we're giving this expectation to these people. The second amendment which I would like to comment on - which, of course, as much comments as are heard on the part of the opposition, I see that the majority do not accept - is about extending the provision for decongestion of prisons. I am, however, obliged to highlight two important things for me. The one thing I want all citizens to understand is that the reason why the original provision came in 2015 - and, unfortunately, there is still today - is that this is an extraordinary measure for decongestion of prisons. Who can accept emergency situations of four years? Extraordinary measures for the decongestion of prisons, and indeed the number of available posts, in relation to prisoners, are mentioned. Well, we cannot in a favoured state depend on who's going to go to jail, who's going to stay, who's going to serve his sentence on the fact that we should have ten thousand seats, and we have nine thousand. The state must otherwise ensure that it finds a solution so that there are indeed the conditions that prisoners must have. But, if he is forced to do so, should he not choose the offences of small criminal and moral decency, so that the sense of law and security for the rest of the citizens is not disturbed? Should we not completely exclude many offences involving? Should we not just leave the smallest offenses, if this is ultimately to be done, especially when it is the fourth year that is actually done in the same way? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute or so. The statistics on the alleged success or failure of the measure do not touch me, as they should not touch any citizen. There is one case, one which the legislator comes in, and in this way he looks after the release of someone who commits another offence, the one who suffers the consequences, cannot accept it, cannot accept it and, of course, reacts to this whole situation, which we are creating with the legislation that is being done here. I think this has to end. It is a matter of principle for us, it is an obligation to ensure the conditions necessary, but you cannot, on the grounds of urgent measures for four years, continue this situation. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Mr. Georganta. The speaker of SYRIZA, Mr Nikolaos Parakatopoulos, who has tabled an amendment to this effect, I imagine. Then you know that, for technical reasons, we will have to stop for a while and we will continue the process. Here, Mr. Paraskevi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Mr President. The amendment has been tabled by three Members - Mrs Christodoulopoulos and Mr Tsirka and I - and I will start with it. It concerns the decriminalisation of crime of ruthlessness, which is provided for in Article 407 of the Criminal Code, and I would like to say a few words on this issue. The provision of Article 407 on begging has been in the Criminal Code since 1950 and has been criticised for its existence almost ever since. Already in his book on the dialectic concept of legal goods, Professor Manoledakis said that this act must be decriminalised, because he does not insult any legal good, jeopardise third people and, in any case, may cause aesthetic discomfort to some people, but criminal law is a last resort to society and gravity, with penalties which are depriving him of freedom, of insulting property, and is not permitted in the event of redundancy. Furthermore, there is also a malicious provision based on the criminalisation of the opinion. However, the provision for many years survived in Greek penal law, because it was almost inappropriate, the Greek state had not dealt with the suppression of acts of ruthlessness, which are treated more by social means or even administrative means often than by criminals. In the last few days, however, we have had a phenomenon of airborne prostitutions in police and arrests, as far as I heard, street musicians in some parts of the country and indeed in Thessaloniki. So the problem became a double. On the one hand, we have the criminalisation of an act which does not jeopardise or harm third parties, and on the other hand, we also had a phenomenon of civilisation, because of course the phenomenon of performing music on the streets is a cultural phenomenon. Music looks like neighborhoods, towns, all travellers or even some travellers have seen in other cities how this phenomenon...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u129	Let this activity be excluded.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u130	I think that before that, Mr Javarra, I have set out the general reasons for the crime of ruthlessness. I think that it does not offend any legitimate good, and that is right for so many years it has been useless.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u131	The value of man.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u132	I have, of course, heard Mr Athanasios, who said that this provision also relates to other falls. I don't know where the Penal Code Legislative Committee will end. It will most likely propose that all bits should be abolished and given their place in administrative violations, but, anyway, such systemic correlation effects with other arrangements can be dealt with by a legislative committee. What is important today is the honour of an act which is not unfair and which currently supports a repressive phenomenon of art, which must really be suspended and the prevention of artistic activity ceases to exist. That, I think, ensures this regulation, which I hope will have a positive welcome from all sides, from all the parties in Parliament. In addition, I would like to refer to the extension of the decongested law. I think that many discussions that have taken place in Parliament have reminded everyone that, on the one hand, this regulation has improved the conditions in prisons of congestion, which had reached dramatic levels, on the other hand, improved the international image and position of the country, which had many convictions due to this phenomenon - Mrs Kozobol said earlier - and on the other, not only was it linked to an increase in serious crime, but on the other hand, according to the details of the Minister, Mr Kalogerou, and, as I recall, she also tabled a document here in Parliament, it is also linked to a reduction in serious crime. The Minister has referred to crimes of homicide, robbery and rape, which have recently been reduced to an absolute number. Despite the drop in crime linked to this regulation, there was a rhetoric of generalized, with a rate of storm and with an extent and characteristics of propaganda, which appeared to be vulnerable to criminals who suddenly came out of prison and are criminals. How was the presentation of this image achieved? With tricks. In other words, while crime was reduced - and this was caused by the measurements - it came from a secondment of two or three cases, which appeared to be supporting, as if it were a general phenomenon, and the impression of "to be, and he came out with decongested law and the other" etc. was created in the world. This phenomenon, already in high school, in high school, many learn that it is called incomplete induction. You take a case and you show it as a general phenomenon, and of course it isn't. But it wasn't just that trick. There were many others, which I think have been known, but perhaps at this time, the renewal of the timing of the regulation in this general direction, it is good to remember them. Thousands of people leave our prisons every year. Because some enter and others go out. Those who leave, as I have known, and as I am aware today, are indeed thousands. It may be five or six or seven or eight or nine thousand a year for those who leave. In the penitentiary of all those who leave, the current decongested law is mentioned. This means that if the last four to five years have come out of prisons of thirty thousand people, the 30 thousand people decongested law is mentioned: Athanasios, Paradise, etc. Is that an image of immunity, of general crime? No, because you think that in the last three - four years, the cases which have dealt with the press as serious cases of crime and violence have not been more than ten. If, then, we want to see it with numbers, we have to accept that in the last three years some twenty thousand prisoners have been fired, and also of them, crimes that have seriously affected public opinion were not more than ten. As a percentage of ten to thirty thousand who were made redundant by a decongestion law marked in their release, it is not just small, it is not just irrelevant to any other percentage that exists in any country in the world, which is about the relapse of the detainees, but it is really unimportant. This shows that in our country, at least lately, there has been a successful policy on relapse. Why was there? Because relapse does not depend on getting out of prison a few months ago or a few months later. Equally, the measurements show that the longer one stays in prison, the greater the risk and the more the relapse rates. Relapse depends, once again, on Mrs Kozobol who explained it - on the possibility of reintegration. And the possibility of reintegrating the man from prison into the peaceful society and not the gangs has a lot to do with how he lived inside the prison. A man who has lived in prison in conditions of dramatic to barbaric conditions when he comes out of prison is very easy to continue a term next to gangs. This improvement in prison conditions has been the result of the improvement in serious crime in our country, which has been recorded by the police with records that have not been challenged by anyone and cannot be called into question, despite the propaganda that brings data, which most of which is unfounded, because few people have actually come out of prison in a few months' time. In most cases, however, the exit has taken place in times that would in any case take place and the percentages are reduced. For this reason, and in so far as we have not escaped disarmament rates, I believe that it is necessary to extend the conditions laid down in the regulation proposed by the Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Mr. Friday. As we said before, we've been interrupting for twenty minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u134	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. Mrs Christodoulopoulos has the floor for seven minutes. The Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy Mr Javarras will then be followed. Madam Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr President. I think that just before we talk about corruption we need to find out what the main causes of corruption have been overcrowded in our times. I think that the fierceness of the economic crisis that tries all the societies in the world, and especially the Greek with the memorials, the marginalisation of society, what we would say - secret, secret negotiations of the financial elites with the lenders, and the fact that new techniques for hiding black money have always been found in order to reach a time when repression mechanisms were powerless to investigate corruption behaviours. I think we should keep them as important. So what's the legislator doing? It monitors the development of the practices and methods used by the audited or debtors, in particular the civilian staff, to conceal bribes and various other illegal acts related to black money trafficking and, after monitoring these techniques, then legislates. In fact, that is, the law comes after those who implement corruption. So I very briefly want to say that the first generalised corruption practice was offshore companies, so-called offshore. So there we can see that the same political staff who legislates, which is stricter than the provisions of control, discovers the same staff and the windows with which they can wash away,'swap', we would say - in quotes - 'black' money. Thus, while there is an international feast around offshore - offshore companies, the Greek legislator only in 2010 provides for the ban on politicians, civil servants and other debtors taking part in foreign companies. In 2016, through other experiences that have arisen, the legislator further tightens the framework and makes it forbidden the participation of politicians and other staff in companies based in the countries of the European Union. Inside, therefore, these ways and hardening the framework, the state is trying to broaden the limits of control and the persons controlled. Of course, we understand various objections to this generalised presumption of suspicion in society about the role of politicians and public officials. But that was not done on its own. It didn't come as a lightning in the dark. There have been - and especially in our country - many examples of the splitting up of public money. There were cases of politicians who were tempted to share and followed by various methods to hide it. That is why we have seen that there is a huge amount of time between action time and clearing time, because all these years that are taking place make the mechanism extremely difficult to identify illegal practices. So I think that today, with the bill, various new issues have emerged in recent years. One which is added, of course, is the harmonisation with the decisions of the Council of State, which we know have caused, such as the refusal of judges to table 'positively' for three years, but also the compliance of Members and politicians who have tabled the electronic declaration and, today, at a time when we are at a transitional time when we all need to see our statements again. In the meantime, it appeared that there was also a void in the law, according to which the spouses involved were not obliged to submit a declaration ‘from the outset’. Since the law provides for spouses who are divorced to the adolescents, i.e. those who are responsible for avoiding control, we were obliged to introduce the provision by which they are required and the spouse who is divided to submit a statement, since one can make a virtual dimension and through the spouse to legalise black money. I would also like here to give a reply to Mr Karagunis, who also wanted to put an ideological note in his position and talked about Stalinism and Stassi involved in such practices. Because, as you know, capitalism and imperialism existed before Stalin and these economies and stock exchange capital, how he was moving and what he did, things Stalin didn't know about in the 1930s...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u136	Against capital, they were fighting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u137	...it would be good to refer to these societies that notice the great symptoms of corruption, because where there is a misguided democracy, the phenomenon of corruption is also increasing. That is why the military dictatorships and the dictatorial regimes, which already exist in absolute opacity and popular sovereignty are marginalized, are increasing the phenomenon of corruption appallingly. At this point, therefore, and by closing the part on 'outside', because I see that time is not taking me, I would like to say that I do not have any delusion that by this law that clarifies various provisions we will be able to arrest corruption in its area and also its protagonists. Nevertheless, I also believe that this framework - after all the previous ones - will discourage many political and public officials from being tempted to fund and contemplate public money. [[This is where the ending bell of Mrs Vice-President's speaking time is ringing.]] In this sense, then, I agree with the bill, and I hope that it will be zeroed - as far as possible - these phenomena, and especially the big black money, because there are some amateurs who use their mother-in-law or any of their friends to launder black money, to which, however, they are not at the height of the millions of euros. Let me tell you, for example, that I sought what has been done with Mr Papantoniou's "subjects" - because it is timely - and I saw that he had been judged, it was perfect for all these years, for which he was involved in black money, and just in 2013, he was called after the publication of the list of Lagard to the Commission 'from where you were concerned, to explain why his name was included there. He certainly gave insufficient explanations, because he could not hide an account at the HSBC, at the Bank of England, and that was where the investigation procedure started and accelerated, i.e. it took fourteen years. I would like to say a few words - because time is not enough - for the amendment on the decongestion of prisons. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, we are losing another opportunity to make an ideological confrontation, to raise the level of the House and the people who are listening to us. You know that from the time of modernity, from the French Revolution, all philosophers, all scientists, all historians have been dealing with the big problem called 'crime and punishment'. I therefore find it extremely unreasonable that the New Democracy should appear today and think that it will resolve the issue of infraction or crime by abolishing the Act of Friday, which it announces at any time, in view of the fact - obviously - that it is working - because it would not say so many times - and that it will find enough voters to ravage them. Because, of course, this historically unequivocal does not respond either to crime or to intrusion. It responds to the ideology of every political power around the issue of crime and punishment. There too, it would really be necessary for our views to conflict, so that society can understand what we mean.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u138	Mrs. Christodoulou, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u139	Because when we speak - let us say - of a criminal system based on leniency, the presumption of innocence, of not misuse of temporary detention, of alternative forms of elaboration of the sentence, and, above all, when we are approaching socially, we cannot identify ourselves with what the New Democracy says, which thinks that if it says 'build prisons everywhere or take no prisoners out', society will save itself from a serious problem facing it and I share it. That is why I think we have lost another chance with this famous 'decongestion' to speak simply and understandably in society about what crime is, what the penalty is, who is in favour of prisoners being convicted, who is in favour of the biopolitical exercise on the naked lives of people, and who is thus to understand and choose clearly what is happening in each case. Unfortunately, it is not enough time for me to say more about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u140	You doubled your time, Mrs. Christodoulopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u141	Yes, and thank you very much. In the same field - to say it myself after Mr Paradoxopoulos - the amendment we tabled on the abolition of subsidisation is also part of the amendment. It's not possible. And that's what we do, doesn't it show anything? The fact that no one else thinks of mitigating, decriminating behaviors that do not offend any legitimate good? How is it possible through criminalisation, the increase in the repression and the fear we cultivate in society to think it is a success to elect such a political perception? I hope it won't be elected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u142	The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Javarras, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u143	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I would like you to accept my protest, although you are not responsible, Mr President, for the fact that this is the first time in the post-government history of this House that Parliament has interrupted the transmission of the visit of the President of the Parliament to the President of the Republic in order to manipulate volumes from the Cyprus file. I do not doubt, of course, that what concerns the national problem, if you like, is very important. There is, however, an objection which I believe you can hear from those who believe me will accept. The channel of the Parliament, the television station of the Parliament, was founded not to become a news channel, but to broaden the limits of the publicity of the work of the Parliament, i.e. the limits of the publicity of the work carried out on the site, in which symbolically and truly popular sovereignty is exercised. So if there is a fundamental news that the Greek people need to know, it is that in Greece every day democracy works in this Chamber. It is this function of democracy that is bloodthirsty and therefore gives life to all democratic positions and to all the institutions of the state. It could therefore be that the director of the channel, if he did not want to flatter the President of this House in this way, because I believe that the President of this House is unable to order such an interruption - to wait, when noon or night in the news report he has established, to inform citizens of the activities of the President of this Parliament, to put it as a video or as a specific information item. The next point I wanted to raise is that those who produced today from this Step did not fail to confess their faith in the independence of justice. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, I do not think any of the representatives of the Greek people deserve to have such faith and not to demonstrate it in the most pragmatic and radical way. Because it does not mean a function of democracy in that country, if the institutional guarantee called the 'law state' does not work across the range of radiation as an institution. Because 'law State' is nothing but the situation which arises when the law and the application of law prevents arbitrariness in the executive, that is to say, protects the citizen from any possible arbitrariness of the government and of the administration. So if there is one issue we should be concerned about, it is the cases that - either in a positive or negative way - are in breach of this principle and, above all, there is a deficit in the independence of justice. However, this deficit in the independence of justice is primarily an obligation to fight it, an obligation to resist any attempt to influence and manipulate justice is made, and the judges themselves have oneself. The judges themselves have no right, but mainly they have to resist any attempt to change their judiciary or serve the interests of the executive, the government and the ministers. That is why, Mr Kasseleros, the case of the current prosecutor, who has denounced that a person with political power and who covers him under the aliases or the characteristics of Raspotini or the "Pimpatier" was attempted to influence her judiciary and force her to prosecute her, and she did not find any evidence that could justify such a criminal prosecution, of course, it is not a simple case. It is not some corn, as it has been heard here, which is for cheap communication reasons, but it is the cry of a public prosecutor who resists any attempt to undermine the independence of justice and, of course, does so by a specific complaint. This complaint is not just a peculiarity or a peculiarity of the particular crime, but it refers to the committing of a specific crime, which is the crime under Article 186 of the Criminal Code entitled “Provocation and Offer to the committing of a crime”. So, here a person with political authority and obviously a member of the government, someone who is essentially identified by a specific alias, took concrete action and urged that prosecutor to commit the abuse of power, that is to say, what Article 239 provides for. I would like to believe that it will not be long before the Ice Bay Prosecutor or any other public prosecutor, honouring the independence of the justice he serves, will order a preliminary examination. If it does not, then, Minister, because I am convinced that you are one of the ministers who honour their mission, so far at least with the effort you have made and the dialogue we have had - I would ask you, on the basis of Article 30, to order the competent prosecutor to carry out the preliminary examination - an investigation imposed. Let us now refer to the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, it is certain that this bill which comes today for discussion and vote in Parliament contains rules on the principle of which, on the basis of which no one is entitled to object. But every time we talk about fighting corruption, we need to return to the basic principles. One of the principles that you will allow me to mention is that this legislation has a forerunner called "Nv5341/1964" and was entitled "To protect the honour of the country's political world". I think that this is what we need to think about, because it is not only from the title of this law that corruption has since become a sarcasm in the functioning of democracy and parliamentaryism, but above all, the legislator at that time had at least the sensitivity to project and highlight the value of the political world as a legal asset, which should have a separate protection, even against the bodies of this honour. Because, indeed, if it is on something that we must fight, it is to protect and protect the honour of the political world, which of course does not involve perpetrators of illegal acts of corruption. Because, anyway, corruption is a personal criminal case, it is not an ideology. And I say this because even from the chosen Vice-President of the House who has presided over me, Mrs Christodoulopoulos, I realised that you are insisting on an unfounded and unfounded confrontation. You want to say for three to four years and to convince the Greek people that there are two political portions that are fighting each other in this place. One is the portion of the incorruptible ones represented by you and the other is the portion of the corrupt ones, which we all represent. Well, if there was indeed the freedom you want to describe the effort you are making and at legislative level to date, I could say that it is included in the terms of a bill entitled 'Towards the moral and political indifference of our political opponents'. So what you want to exorcise, what you want to protect society and democracy, you put it from another door, which even has to serve a self-interested purpose. Why are you showing corruption as a political risk, and this will be paid, firstly, because you are creating the false picture to the Greek people that there are two categories of politicians, corrupt and indestructible, and you are connecting precisely this definite démarche, this completely jeopardized political activity with some principles that go back to the time of the French Revolution. In 1793 to 1795, therefore, the leader of the Joint Salvation Committee, Maximilian Robespierre, had devised in a very extreme form what you are currently trying to impose. In other words, he said that all those who are not with us, all those who are not with the revolution, are citizens who act unpopularly and anti-democraticly and because the high, the last, the most perfect means of justice to inspire is terrorism, we raise public execution with the guillotine of our opponents as an educational sight of the people. The point is that the last victim of the guillotine - that is something that is very educational - was Robespierre himself, and of course, this was done by the vote of those who once prosecuted him in the purification champion. Ladies and gentlemen, what I want to say to you, and I tell you outside the teeth, is that the UN International Convention against Corruption, which was passed on 3 October 2003, the New Democracy Government ratified it by Law No 3666/2008, made it domestic law and even created the conditions for its implementation. There is also another procedure - Mrs Christodoulopoulos knows - within the Council of Europe where there is a group of anti-corruption states known as GRECO. I think, as far as it is thought, that the provision of the funds in the form of this name is accidental, it comes from the words Group d'Etats Contre la Corruption, a Group of States Against Corruption. So this particular one joined us from the first to the fourth cycle, and there it began with a first lesson, in the first cycle - in 1999, if I am not wrong - to have a clearance in the judiciary because the independence of justice considers it to be an effective means of combating corruption. You see what I said before. So, here, anyone who reacts in any form of threat, manipulation, against any incentive given to violate his judicial duty, should have an incentive to tell the truth and denounce the perpetrator of such manipulation. And we arrive in 2015, in the fourth cycle, in which there was indeed this whole provision of regulations in its final form, to protect democracy and society against corrupt Members, judges and officials. So there is no doubt here that we all have to go to this game together. It is not in this fight that you are sowing a division of this kind that I have mentioned, because then it turns out that you are not interested in fighting corruption, but what is important is defending your party interest. I therefore believe that, within the SYRIZA, there are also colleagues who have education and culture and sensitivity to become at least the catalysts to stop this delusion over the fact that the government is the 'Government of the Saviors' and that it is those who represent the enemy of the people. I would now like to make two comments on the law that is fatal, Mr Paradoxopoulos - not to mention your name - I would not like to call it a 'congestive' law. I'll explain right away why. Indeed, the need for decongestion of prisons is a commonly recognised need, and even under specific historically shaped conditions it has reached explosive situations such as this to justify emergency measures. The question, however, is as follows: here we have the perpetuation of this regulation to such an extent that it is not just extraordinary but a tactical, normal regulation, which is now against the implementation and enforcement of judgments of judicial authority. Here, in fact, when it comes to changing the terms and content of the court's decision, you realise that this cannot be a regulation, a well-balanced situation, and most importantly, you will allow me to say that the fact that there are no human conditions of living in prisons is not something about justice, it is not something about the institutions, it is something about the governments in question. Because it is the government's duty to shape human service conditions, human life of prisoners, with the aim of all prisons, namely their final reintegration into society. So who will he be claiming that when a person who has been sentenced to life or a sentence of twenty years of imprisonment, sitting in prison three or four years and returning to society, is capable, mature, fit for reintegration into this society, since he has not suffered the penitentiary that has been imposed upon him by the competent court? Here too, they are not matters that have to do with an enlightened approach to the related objects and science and politics, as well as thought. Because the people are always, through their organs, democratically elected, and the demand and claim for punishment for those who have violated the Criminal Code or some other criminal provisions is an obligation that all of us have, and above all that requires the state.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u144	Mr. Javarra, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u145	Excuse me, I'll be done, Mr. President. I also think - and I say this to Mrs Christodoulopoulos, who is the chairman of the Committee on Assurance Control - that there is a discriminatory use here of this provision which increases the number of members from nine to eleven, because there is no guarantee of credibility for the Citizens' Counsellor or the Public Administration Inspector. Because, as you will read from the report of the Scientific Council of Parliament, matters are actually being raised - and we need to recognise it - the protection of human rights. So there is no other way out than our obligation to weigh every time the purpose of each arrangement is trying to meet the ratio to which it must be found with the means used. This, of course, should we have a breach of human rights, the person responsible for telling the collective body is the Citizens' CouncU with all the guarantees of impartiality. I am sorry that some of you - and you in particular, Mrs Christodoulopoulos - have not pointed this out. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u146	Mr. Javarra, you have already exhausted the time of your tritology. Mr. Dritsas has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Mr President. Obviously, Mr Javarra, I, too, believe that there is no one in this Chamber who even thinks that the President of Parliament, Mr Voutsis, may have called for the procedure to be interrupted. I would add - and I believe - that it is a common place that no director of this House's television would do that to flatter the President. Somewhere else the truth must be sought. There's a lot of reasons for something that's happening. Let us not give the impression that he saves and well happened something that has political depth or selfishness or something like that. With regard to your strong intervention, Mr Javarra, for the independence of justice, we are in fact all defending it, but the institutional safeguarding of the independence of justice, like all other institutional safeguards, does not mean that the functionality of this independence ends there. It is constantly claiming and multiplely claiming from all sides. Especially in justice, the judges must also claim independence in international and in any circumstances.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u148	And protect her.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u149	So, in this particular case - without mentioning names - a leading official of justice, and without any longer being active, he cannot identify them through the institutional choices and initiatives of ministers, political persons, to point them out, to name them, but prefers to integrate them into political competition of a topical nature? This is not a defence of the independence of justice, of the staff for each judge or of the whole body. From this point of view and here we must be very careful.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u150	Who are you referring to?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u151	Because by handing various political persons to the parapolitical and scandalous television broadcasts or press presentations you do not help much the process of independence of justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u152	I have no objections, but that is generally true.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u153	But that's where they're charged. As we have heard here, the ministers and the government - and the ministers - have been called for Soros, because - it says - there is a suspicion that Soros is funding political people. And Mr Papagelopoulos and Mr Kalogero will be called in - and I am sure you have asked for it! - to give answers! Is this a political attitude when we have a bill that isn't in the series? It upsets public life the transparency of statements of the property situation of political persons and other persons practicing public functions and we have a past not only for cases that have revealed that there have been scandals. I always want, and I think all of us, to end the presumption of innocence above all. So, and the timeliness of Mr Papantoniou's and his wife's references, I will not finish it as a given thing at all. But how did that happen? Nikos Parafylopoulos was chaired by the Committee of Inquiry into the case of charges against Mr. Papantoniou. And I was President - I had the honour - after a period of time, to the Committee of Inquiry into Novartis. And in that first period and then "NOVARTIS" what did we document and accept? In the first case, there was consensus, in the second case...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u154	You were a member and you'd know I was the first one to say that he had to go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u155	Exactly, Mr. Javarra, you also consented to your honor. That's right, I'm sure. In the second case, however, we had a revolt, because we documented and deepened theory and minutes, as a parliament, not as a SYRIZA or as anything, the constitutional and legal documentation to refer to where this can actually be done and in terms of credibility. We have at the moment a normalisation but also a consistency in the control of these cases for which a great deal of effort had to be made. I was in the past a member of the Audit Committee of the House years ago. I have seen, ladies and gentlemen, a statement from the political person, which was then taken on the path of justice - I am not interested in the people - which, in the statement on what we are called to state our statements, which provided for a number of deposits, the bank, all the details were then the drachma, there was no euro, and there was a diagonal statement: 'About 9 million drachmas of my statements'. This statement was accepted. It was accepted with a complete depreciation of the then law which, at the time, predicted that you had to give details. You know, for this political person what was revealed next as to how many deposits he had? He had a hundred ten booklets, a hundred ten bills. And he had said well: 'About 9 million drachmas'. And there was no defiance! Mr Tasoulas was right to insinuate it, and Mr Javarras also implied it: there is no law excellent to cover all this, unless there is a generalised social and political decency for such practices. This example I brought to you illustrates in the most up-to-date way that there was no deceptiveness at that time. And that's the difference, Mr. Javarra. This is not the side of the covetous and the corrupt ones. It's not. Don't underestimate us. We're neither foolish nor naive.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u156	In all the parties there are corrupt forces. You don't want to admit it. After three or four years we'll see you again.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u157	Don't interrupt, Mr. Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u158	On the left, we never have the self-sufficient view that on the one hand the corrupt ones are the ones on the other. Don't interrupt me. But we firmly believe that there are political choices that favour or undermine corruption or policies that prevent it and treat it. And that is our conflict, because we will not accept an administrative head - political leader in fact - of our party the Christmas.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u159	Okay, now what you're saying is vulgar.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u160	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u161	It's vulgar.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u162	It's not.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u163	Mr. Dritsa, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u164	I shall conclude, Mr President. Please, I'd like one more minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u165	Already, you've exceeded time. Don't interrupt too, Mr. Javarra, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u166	Therefore, the diligent concealment should have ways of dealing with and poor control being a past. That is why this debate is important, and it should focus there, because I think it is of interest to the Greek people. I have no time to say about the Municipal Police and the amendment. Nor, in extended terms, for regulating the Ministry of Justice regarding the control of invalidity attestations and all these things that improves. I will refer to the fact that a multi-realistic factor in economic life appeared with economic, political and social power and found the window to take advantage of illegally, was charged to Nikos Parafavopoulos and his law - if possible! - while it is a classic case of corruption by people who have economic, social and political power. And instead of seeing this, we saw the Law of Friday.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u167	Finish, Mr. Dritsa, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u168	I conclude with the amendment on the IGM. I have lived for many years since Mr. Manatis was Deputy Minister at the Ministry, Minister, Mr. Papaconstantinou, Secretary General Mousouroulis, then Minister for Maritime Affairs, this outstanding account, the collective insurance contract with the "NATIONAL SAFALISTIC" of the workers and successively the pensioners of the IGM. I know that this amendment does not satisfy 100%. But then, from all these years, there has been a regulation. I could ask myself even greater compensation to these workers, who have a significant contribution to the country's productive activity. I know there are great difficulties in this. But it is also a sign of writing that even if we haven't reached the ideal, we leave nothing in the basket of unusable. I have been at least fifteen times in the past few years, together with the employees of IGM, to the relevant Ministry - in the previous governments - on this subject. And there's a government coming to regulate it that way. Perhaps then - we will see - we can look for ways of further improvement. These are important things, and that is where this government rests. That is why it will remain - as it has committed itself to the Greek people - and will reach the end of the completion of a useful policy for the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u169	The SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Mrs Vaki, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u170	Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the permanent and dear interpretative shape of the Opposition was and remains the theory of the two extremes, clothed in various forms, with welcoming designations of the type "Madour", "North Korea", lately the imaginable term "Polishisation", today we heard about "Stazi", etc. The effort - which was fortunately made for Greek society - of the auction of television frequencies was translated into media manipulation, culminating in the spiral of public television that you blocked in one night in 2013, the investigation of scandals of the breaking of public money, which the Greek people paid with blood, was translated into a policy of extermination of our political opponents, and the obligation of the judiciary to testify 'from a point of view' to raw interference with justice. You wonder who sent Yannos Papantoniou to prison. Did the tooling of the Polakis doctrine send him, as he himself claims with a lot of courage, or did justice send him to prison for a case that has been started since 2005, involving eight hundred pages and three million in hatred? Ladies and gentlemen, you must be ashamed of the designations such as 'Stazi', 'polluterisation', etc., that you are involved in the absence of arguments, political culture and also of dissatisfaction - as is not the doctrine of Polakis - we have heard that - a tool for intervention in justice, and so forth is not the law of Paradise of transgression and lawlessness, as you are used to say. Other if ‘insurance’ is a term of sociology with a completely different interpretation and use. A farm of anger, a dishonestness of the political system of the Parliamentary Republic, a determination, a racist paraxism, is society, unfortunately, and when it is burdened with the bankruptcy for which it is not responsible. The parties of the seashore, offshore, the hatred, who went bankrupt the country and put it one night in the barbarity of the memorials, uh, let them be quieter. This draft law, inter alia, introduces two important provisions in the context of transparency, good administration and the rule of law. The first is the obligation of judges to notify their credit obligations, and the second is the obligation of the spouses of political persons who are required to be subject to the provisions of 'from the outset' so that we do not have new cases of new residences of Volos. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to say a few words about this famous 'law of Friday'. Aphne, a law acquired a name and was converted into a scapegoat, in which all the sufferings of Greek society were affected. For all violations, for any crime committed, the sole responsibility was the “law of Friday”. A law and a perpetrator for crime. So, what propaganda, mud and half-hearted call "the Paradise Law" and identify with moral motive any violations and crime, do you know when it is? Since the Bastille was shot. The rightful civilization of modernity reconstructs the sentence and interprets it as a prisoner and not as a means of vengeance, as an instrument of social integration and not extermination. Decongestion does not only improve the conditions of detention, it does not only break down prison in prison, it does not prevent extortion and relapse within the walls, but also restores the lost honor of our country in respect of respect for human rights. He relieved us of fines for millions. The only countries against which the International Committee of Torture had issued a public declaration of disapproval were three: Turkey, Russia and Greece. If you look back on police statistics for three years 2015-2017, you will find that serious crimes have been reduced. The law does not concern life sentences, while its prolongation brings forth important corrections and supplements to Article 110A of the Criminal Code, strengthening the role of the judge in order to avoid abuses by invoking the disability status of the Aristides Florus. Ladies and gentlemen, a permanent contradiction goes through your public speech and your policies in the areas of public administration and justice. Immunity and immunity, transparency and arbitraryness in public administration, dispersal, bribes, transactions, seems to have been the fuel of their state machine and a component of your policy. On the other hand, the doctrine of "Law and Order", a foretaste of penitentiary, based on the legal abortion - I will say - of the rightful culture, which listens to the name "List Type III" and which you want to bring back. And it recommends an annoying discrepancy in the rule of law and in the state and in every state that wants to define itself in favour. We are therefore "deploying violence wherever it comes" as well as a Trojan horse at the moment of the fantasy of the public university, the abolition of asylum and Article 16. One of the students of customers, from the dismissal of two and a half thousand teachers of technical education, is one: privateisation of universities by deportation and confiscation. Someone's gonna tell me right now: the drugs. It was also mentioned by my colleague - I think - from the river. Yeah, drugs are a scourge! Is it possible within the space of their university? Let the police intervene. The Asylum Act is very clear and adequate. Why doesn't the PCPD call if a felony is committed? Does it make sense for the university to close when the traffic is carried out outside the university's area near? But your account of violence and lawlessness on the grounds of drugs and Ruvikon in Philosophy is about to throw the cube and declare the war at the public university, mutate it into a customer service centre. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, you are condemning violence wherever it comes from. Only sometimes this is the leaf of figs to applaud another violence, the violence of neoliberalism, redundancies and cuts, but also the extreme right-wing violence and nationalist deprivations. After all, the uterus of violence in Greece is the Left and not the Golden Dawn, according to an earlier statement by the Chief of Officerial Representation, and that is why, as another first-class leader of yours has said, the Left should never take over the rule again. You can already take her out - I don't know - and out of law! We therefore condemn the violence from wherever it comes. months ago - let me report - they were raided on the Mayor of Thessaloniki and plunged the social media of networking by your officials' statements, in which he got what he deserved because he is a traitor! So when you condemn the violence from wherever it comes, let us condemn it with regard to racist, homophobic, nationalist and fascist deliriums. Because, if we do not, then this fig sheet will become Pandora's box and will rupture incense crowds, the mistresses - lyrics that lyricize unarmedly defenseless, weak people, because for them they are not human beings, are obedient and are not worth the name of man. There will be indignant parents and clubs who are saying the school door and depriving them of the right to knowledge in children who believe in another god and speak another language, for perhaps they do not belong to people. The invasion of refugees, immigrants and any citizen who defends social and political rights will come out. Do we want this society? Will this be Greece that we dream after the memorials or do we want a Greece of good administration, a favoured state, a rule of law? But we also want humanism and some values and democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u171	Mrs Stamatakis has the floor from SYRIZA. The Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks will be followed. Another speaker is left, and we will be in the process of seconds, after the Minister of State, Mr Kaloger, has intervened. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u172	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I speak on the draft law, I would like to refer to the Minister's amendment on the extension of the arrangements for decongestion of prisons, which has been fireed by the whole of opposition and was launched during the committee debate. I believe that the regulation is important because it concerns respect for human rights and, indeed, a very special and sensitive group of people, namely prisoners in prisons, where the number of detainees goes far beyond the available positions and makes it very difficult for prisoners to live up to the daily lives and creates degraded situations. It is regrettable that since the resolution of No.4322/2015 the opposition has served on a recital of slander, with false evidence, to cultivate a sense of insecurity for the citizens and ultimately to maintain this situation that impoverishes people. For us it is an honor that we voted for the Law of Friday, and it is an honor for the same name that was linked to substantial changes in the detention system, because we believe that a rule of law must provide opportunities for prisoners to be incarcerated and integrated, and yet it must respect the very existence of human beings above any other value. This superficial insecurity, which at its most extreme appearance reaches the idea of self-righteousness, is antisocial and ultimately dangerous to democracy itself. For this reason, we will in every way defend decent and safe prison living conditions, as is apparent from the recent resolution of the Council of Europe's ministers and as is the case with international standards. The European Commission's reports in the past have been embarrassing for our country. Prisons were understaffed, health care was insufficient, the squares corresponding to each prisoner few, a situation created by the policy of many decades. The attempt to reverse started from 2015 and continues until today. It is every democratic citizen's duty to support this effort towards the darkness of vengeance, against weak people. In addition, strict conditions have been laid down under the law. Since 2017 hard felony has been excluded from the decongestion provision. There was an absolute blockade in offences such as the kidnapping of a minor, rape, child robbery, embezzlement in a minor on a fee, armed robbery from which deaths were caused. Of course, this provision is temporary. The Government has stated its intention to streamline the system of penalties, to a justice system based on the'security-humanisation-reintegration-transparency' lines. Now, with regard to the bill we are debating, I would like to point out that this is a bill that modernises the provisions of the law, rationalises and reduces bureaucracy and encourages the participation of citizens in common with the assumption of responsibilities that do not cause them problems. Colleagues and colleagues have been detailed in the provisions of this bill. I would like to dwell on two main provisions: One is that a declaration of assets of persons who have concluded a cohabitation agreement is introduced. This will cover a large gap after the cohabitation agreement has been extended and the equalisation of rights and obligations with those resulting from the conclusion of the marriage. The second is that it prevents any unnecessary burden on parents and guardians but also on students participating in school committees, restricting the obligation to declare the data only to the presidents and administrators of bank accounts. I believe that all the members of the competition committees, the Central Board of Urban Affairs and Disputes and all the Architecture Boards, the Central Archaeological Board and the Central Council of New Monuments are added to the obligors. These provisions and regulations ensure transparency and greater public confidence in the rule of law and in the institutions. Society needs these values. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u173	The Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, Mr Katsikis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the two pillars on which this SYRIZA - ANEL government agreement was based were the country's exit from the memorandums and the fight against corruption. Going through Cyclops and Laristigans, we are heading for their accomplishment. In August the country stepped on cowardly but decisively on its feet. It came out of the memorials, looking for an autonomous and upward economic route. Our contribution, however, to building the other pillar, this fight against corruption, is to know that it is and will be decisive. Tell me, ladies and gentlemen, if there is a man today who trusts all the institutions and believes that the Greek state and its officials are shielded against corruption and complications. Tell me, if there's a man today who believes that the public interest protects it all those who swore to do it. No one believes it. The decency has dominated as a sense in the public life of the place. But what needs to be evacuated is the scandalous absence of political will. And she's long. The state failed to protect its interests, whether by not legislating or not. But whatever of both, she is tragically responsible. The establishment of a solid conviction, especially in the younger generations, that only the intertwiner and the "lucky" succeeds in destroying it. An important tool in our effort is statements of assets. The proposed provisions cover gaps and clarify points of the previous law, while facilitating the work of the audit bodies, as the applicable legislation governing their submission is amended. The gradual formulation of the legislative framework since 1964 has been taken into account and the widening of the controlled basis established in the current text satisfys the public's sense of law, including categories of persons actively involved in the functioning of public life. In particular, it includes, inter alia, publishers of online and printed information media, as well as police, port and firefighting staff, provided that they are not permanently available due to sickness or injury. So, in support of the necessity of this enlargement, I shall refer as far as possible to cases of publishers, as well as to cases of judiciary officers from the Security Councils, who are at times working on justice. And I start with the last one. Recently, a circuit of police officers involved in drug trafficking has been dismantled. And I would like to ask myself, could enlargement and cross-checking increase the property situation of the persons involved could work in strengthening the resolution of the case? I think so. The establishment of a retrospective statement check can make safe conclusions on the creation and origin of incomes? I think so. And I now go to the 'big publishers' chapter, either online or printed media. We are all aware of the condemnation of a great publisher of the Labraki Journalism Agency for the offence of violation of the law on “from a point of view” as it was imposed in March 2017. We are also aware of developments in the case of a newspaper publisher in Greece - I am not going to make a nomenclature - which has escaped, I would say, and now resides abroad in a case that started in 2007. This publisher is invited to pay all the money that he could not justify in his ‘undertaking’, about EUR 4 million, following the allocation of the Court of Auditors, which is expected to be collected in accordance with the procedure for the collection of public revenue. The reason I have spoken about these examples is simply to highlight the importance of monitoring the submission of statement of assets as a means of shielding the state against abuse phenomena. In the context of the extension of the basis of the persons controlled, an obligation to submit a statement of assets shall be acquired by persons who have concluded a cohabitation agreement and shall thus be treated as the cohabitants with the persons responsible for submitting a statement of assets, once the State has accepted and legislated to establish the Cohabitation Agreement. The increase in the number of debtors leads, in fact, to the need to increase the number of members of the Audit Committee and, therefore, to a two-member increase in the number of members considered appropriate and necessary. The General Inspector for Public Administration participates in this committee for the first time, strengthening the folds of impartial crisis and transparency. An important innovation in the new draft law is the power of the Commission to control all judicial persons' statements of property. As far as school committees are concerned, only the presidents and managers of the bank accounts of these committees are now obliged. We believe that the removal from the obligation to state'subject to' the members of the school boards is very good, since many members of the school committees, who are parents, guardians, etc, refuse to take part in these committees, as they were obliged to make a statement 'from where they were concerned'. The provision for the first time of payment of an e-infringement in cases of late submission of declarations is of the opinion that it will act more in the short term and at the same time contribute to avoiding successive extensions. However, ladies and gentlemen, on this point I would like to draw your own attention to this particular institution, which would be appropriate to review the value of the offenders it provides, taking into account the economic context. In my view, the value of the wrong is punishable and of a nature, considering the economic situation, in which our fellow citizens go and the difficulties they face every day. The need to protect the public interest, which is now more pressurised than ever, is asserted by the possibility offered to the Audit Committee to rectify cases which have been filed when evidence of non-enforcement or the submission of an inaccurate statement arises. Without wishing to extend further, however, Mr President, it is worth noting in the history of the matter that the statement of assets was the lyric to bring the illusory activities of politicians and non-personnels to light, leading them to prisons, which naturally fragmented the prestige of politics. The Independent Greeks, considering our moral obligation to protect our country and its citizens, do not relax lightly and filled, as the poet would have said, with the consumption of the people that our position can offer us. On the contrary, we remain supporters of transparency. We want every day to prove that we are evangelizing it. We remain supporters of transparency, justice and, above all, accountability in the exercise of democratic powers. With, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this orientation, we believe that the Legislative Initiative of the Ministry of Justice is essential and acts prosthetics in rebuilding the credibility of the country's political system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u175	At this point, ladies and gentlemen, the list of speakers has been completed, as has the circle of interventions by the parliamentary representatives. The Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has the floor, Mr Kalogerou, for eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, is there an existential question raised: Does power corrupt people or are people corrupting power? It is a lasting question that I fear will not answer today. I am also afraid that today's debate did not make us more wise, as far as the basic legislation is concerned, the draft law we had to discuss today about 'from now on'. That is why we have gone through discussing topical and urgent subjects of major importance. Two topical and urgent issues were raised from the windows in this Chamber. What are the problems that have dealt with us today? You have called on the Justice Ministers to place themselves on Members' seats who have taken the interview of a former Minister and now a Member of Parliament, who has invoked another member of the Minister's assemble in the functioning of the Minister's Council. Please do not ask me to interpret both the position of the former Minister and the way in which a debate may have taken place within the Ministerial Council, which are well aware of how it operates and what the transfer of these debates means. That's the first. Secondly, do not also ask the Minister of Justice for a position on what public prosecutor circles are discussing, which photographs in abstract terms specific topics, discussions and issues. When the face of the circles falls, when the person will say what it is, if the person says exactly what he wants to say and what to denounce, then the debate can certainly take place within a specific context. Do not worry, because it is well known to all of us that judges in that country certainly exist. I would also like to say - and I have said this publicly before - that this debate, which has been taking place recently - and, in my opinion, it is with obvious backwardness - on the question of the independence of justice. I've said the independence of justice is her mirror. It is the mirror, in which she looks only at herself and sees herself and does not need anyone's infidelities or of course also protection. Protection of independence is provided for by the Constitution itself. So any further discussion is only to remove reality or create distortions in truth and reality. And, of course, this is how we eventually end up with the exact opposite result, that is to say, its reappointment many times. And that is why justice itself gives the answers in the way she thinks she should give the answers to these issues. What I note, too, is that these positions in relation to the topicality of what they tried to do? To weaken another issue, another fact of the timeliness of the day, which concerns the temporary detention of a historian of the former PASOK, the former Democratic Partnership and the current Change Movement. I am not going to place myself on the procedural point, nor on the substantive debate in relation to this political person. What I think, however, that it is about today's debate, which should be, in my opinion, a debate on Parliament's institutional immunity and Parliament's legislative work to deal with the corruption phenomena, which are components of the economic crisis that we have experienced in that country in recent years and is a key issue, is what parliamentary behaviour is in relation to these issues. At this point I would like to say that both the will of the government and the position of the Members of the government are completely clear parliamentary behaviours. The parliamentary majority has not inactivated these years. There are also pre-reviews and committees of inquiry. And it is good to remember at this point when you have dealt with the parliamentary paradox 'what the House is obliged to do when the public prosecutors or judges are transmitting criminal proceedings of former political people'. There, therefore, the parliamentary majority did not fail and then it was denounced on the following issues: firstly, it was denounced because it deals with obviously falsified cases of the offence of infidelity, indeed. And, secondly, what did you suggest? Civic Opposition, what could it suggest? The inertia. I mean, don't do anything. As far as the issue is concerned, which is not written off, such as money laundering from criminal activity, you said there - I would remind you of the Minutes of the debate and of the pre-examination and the results of the pre-examination - 'However, at no point in the proposal you do not substantiate any indication, strong or not, in the six cases mentioned in the case of crimes of infidelity, possibly also money laundering, which are considered to be relevant to the basic crime. The majority rapporteur said earlier that we have indications - not which of the arguments - that it is even related to the basic crime of the legalisation of that period with Mr Papantoniou. Why don't you mention a single indication here? Something, an account?’ "But the problem is not the criminal theories about the relevance of the crimes, not even the way in which you have drawn up your proposal to the National Representation, but the lack of any elementary elementation of the proposal with unconnected facts, such as, for example, what has been said before, because it is shown in the proposal to have confidence in a bank abroad, when the Minister concerned was not even a Minister of Defence and the time period had nothing to do with the equipment." That is what you were saying in the proposal to set up the pre-inquiry and the pre-inquiry you said, I am referring to the gentlemen of the Change Movement obviously: “What did we say to you then? The Democratic Alliance had denounced to the Greek people the distraction you attempted, as well as the selective criminalisation of political life at a particular critical moment for the country. Justice should speak. The House should listen to justice." I believe that today this House is indeed listening to justice, as has been done in the past, and as always will be done every time it is needed. That is what I wanted to say in relation to the issues of topical and urgent subjects of major importance. I move quickly on to the issues relating to the bill 'from now on'. There are, in my opinion, four points which this House has discussed in relation to the law 'from where you are concerned'. The first issue now seems to be dealing with judicial associations again and in some way, and that is why I think that here and through the seconds it is good to have a clear position from the representatives of all the groups. There is, therefore, a reflection of constitutionality by the judiciary as to the compulsory statement of prices and cash. This is what judiciary associations are reintroducing at the level of reflection. Since judiciary officials are not the only debtors - all of us here are obliged, like many other persons - to answer two questions, in my opinion: Do we agree with the statement on money and money, which are outside bank accounts? Let us say this clearly: we agree or disagree. Secondly, do we consider that there is indeed an issue of unconstitutionality in this regard? I would remind you that, in relation to the decision of the Council of State, in order to listen to the people who are following us, but also the others who are responsible, we must have a clear view and say that both the groups and the Members of Parliament consider that the honours should not be declared in the statement 'from where you were, and that if I have any money out of account in my home, neither will I say them, because I fear and I also believe that this obligation of the law will probably be judged as an anti-constitutional one. A clear answer, I believe, is what is needed, because I would remind you that the decision by the Council of State to give a number of thoughts - I do not say that at the level of criticism, I say it at the level of dialogue - of the legal world, as far as this decision on 'outside' is concerned. What was the matter that caused a lot of talk then? Firstly, the Council of State considered the law irresponsible and irresponsible, because it did not include the fields and directives for completing the fields. That was a matter that the Council of State has dealt with. Despite the fact that the Council of State considered him irresponsible, he then went to record reasons and suggest legislation which would shield the law. One question, therefore, in my opinion, is whether we agree with the measure and whether we consider that there is a problem of constitutionality. It is good to place the parliamentary groups on the table. Secondly, we are concerned with the question of the composition of the committee. We have also said this in committee, in my opinion, that the legal issue has been sufficiently clarified. We say that here the positions laid down in Article 90(1) of the Constitution relate to purely judicial tasks, whereas Article 89(2) of the Constitution allows the judges, if the law so defines, to be placed on such committees that exercise control powers. It can be done by the director, the court concerned and, indeed, there is a case-law in this regard. We invoke Decision 2347/2017 of the Council of State, which considered with regard to the independent appeal committees that the judicial officers of the ordinary courts involved in the independent appeal committees are designated by the general commissioner of the sovereignty of the ordinary administrative courts and are not contrary to Article 90(1) of the Constitution, which provides that the positions of the judicial officers are to be acted by a presidential decree, issued following a decision, etc. That is because, in this case, it is not the placement of an appointed or pre-litigated judge in a particular court. This provision, this decision in plenary is invoked and we consider that the legal issue with regard to us has been resolved and with this decision of the Council of State. I would remind you that, for practical reasons, it is important that those members of the courts concerned should be appointed by the directors of the courts, because the Presidents of these courts are aware of the needs of their court. They may therefore also indicate the person, their colleague, who has the appropriate knowledge to serve the committee concerned, but also the court's own needs in order not to create any arrhythmias in the way the court operates. Thirdly, we have heard questions about the five-year limitation and the criminal issue regarding the limitations and how long the specific elements of the declarations 'from now on' can be recovered. I also think that with the legislative improvement made by Mr Papagelopoulos and this issue has been sufficiently clarified, that is, five years. From there on, if there are signs of felonies and even felonies or delinquents, especially in those felonies, it will monitor the limitation period provided for in the offence. And we have that enough, I think, explained. And there is also the issue of the Public Administration Inspector, who is involved in this committee. I would remind you that, first of all, the Chief Inspector for Public Administration is taking part in GRECO. Secondly, it is self-sufficiently responsible for controlling thousands of civil servants, so it could not be absent from this committee. It is also the owner of the information design project. These were the remarks I wanted to make in relation to the law of 'from where you came from.' Before I go to the issues of the parliamentary amendments, I come to the last part on decongestive provisions. In relation to the provision of 110 A of the Criminal Code, I imagine there is broad consensus on the part of this House. I think, first of all, that we are resolving an issue which has raised several judicial officers, that is, the possibility of ordering experts from the judiciary boards to take up these applications. By adding the word 'particularly' the legislator gives the signal that they themselves - as they could before and before, but now they are absolutely clear - can order expertise in order to find out the specific medical problems and see whether the applicant is indeed subject to the condition of dismissal. I also think we all agree that every time we see arrhythmias or problems in the way in which a particular law is implemented, as happened in the case of 110 A, it is important to go back and, indeed, correct problems that have been created. And if this were to be the case - from what we are reading - and a CEPD counterfeiting industry, it is now possible to withdraw the Parliaments which were ordered to be released from prison, and in due course, in order to deal with this issue and to enable the judicial authorities to withdraw these motions. I would remind you that on this legal issue there was a diligence in confession, as regards the possibility of revoking penalised parliament. I have also told the committees that the targeting of a particular person, which even happens to be a teacher of law, is something which I imagine has been problematic to us enough, perhaps for different reasons each of us. And that's why? Because, in my opinion, an absolute distortion of real events was created, which is used to create concrete political arguments in political controversy. These political arguments I think they feed together and power themselves with various news, which are often false. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I'm gonna need another five minutes, Mr. President. Why am I saying that? Firstly, with regard to the security issues to which this whole conflict seems to be taking place, I think that both the elements of the Greek police and the Ministry are quite informative, without of course wanting to make a simple argument that decongested provision prevents crime, because it is as naive as naive as it is to say that the discongestive provision is the one that has increased this particular problem. So what are these facts? I have heard here that we have been perpetuating the decongestive provisions over the last three years. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, we are not perpetuating them for three years. We have been perpetuating them since at least 2008, because there have been precedents since 1984, since 1991, since 1994. They were laws that amended provisions concerning suspension and conversion of sentences in order to function in the decongested direction. And what else happened? It became that discongestive provisions, let's say 2013, have even worked for offences, for abuses of more than ten years, for offences and even violations of the drug law. It is therefore an extraordinary solution that they have used previous governments to address a particular issue. What? That of the decongestion of prisons and detention conditions and of the prison population. So I come back to what I told you before. What are the elements of interest, in my opinion, in this House? First, in relation to the sentences on detention conditions for 2008-2014: From 2008 to 2014, our country paid 3,238.800 euro plus interest on booking conditions in the country's detention stores. From 2015 to 2017 he paid 122,300 euros. That is not a left argument. It is obviously a technocratic argument, which is important and we say it is important, because since 2015, this is the first time that the country has actually implemented a specific penitentiary policy, which is moving on the axes of humanism, security and, of course, of transparency and social reintegration, the last issue that does not seem to have been particularly concerned with the previous governments. What other evidence proves that there is this false argument of security or insecurity, which is mainly invoked by Civic Opposition? Data on escapes and uprisings from prisons. It is good, then, to know that from 2015 until today, there has been no escape from prisons, and before, for both 2010 and 2011 and 2012, there is a record of data available to you in relation to how safe these prisons were. The evidence I would also like to submit in the Minutes is the press release from September 25, 2018, which shows the situation with regard to serious crime. It is clear from this that the felonies - which are often mentioned in the public debate as felonies, carried out by people who have even been released because of decongestive provisions - have been reduced even by 30% of these crimes and homicide, in particular robbery and other crimes. We have given the information to the committees. [[At this point, Minister Michael Kalogerou submits for the minutes the above-mentioned press release, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] I would also like to say - and the rapporteur of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group said - that in this debate on these elements, the latest, recent element in which we were called upon to respond was the arrest of a demonstration in Pagcrat. He was released by the Law of Friday. This one with vulgar titles. So we searched for this defendant, who proved that he had no other decisions, that is, he was never convicted, he was never detained, he had no permission and he had certainly not been released. I think, therefore, that we are reaching the key political issue in relation to this, which is the announcement of the Chief of Staff, but also of many others, in relation to the abolition of the so-called - apologies, Mr Paradise - of the Law of Paradise. The New Democracy Parliamentary Group must be placed in this. What do you mean - we have asked you in the committees too - by abolishing the Act of Friday? What exactly do you want to abolish? If you want to abolish the discongestive provisions, we have told you and the committees that this will happen soon, when the penal codes and the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure come to Parliament. Reconstitution of the legislators, which will soon be re-elected and completed in order for new codes to be available in the new year. The rationalisation of offences and penalties is, in our view, the only way to tackle this problem. And do not protest the time taken by these legislators, because the argument here is simple: you have been here all these years? [[Noise in the Chamber]] When you legislated the decongested provisions - ten in number - what was the case with the legal provisions? What happened to your design in terms of the new codes? In a few months' time, then, the new penal codes will come and will be dealt with as necessary. So one is the prisoner. If you mean decongestion, then we answer 'I'm very pleased, we want it to be done with the penal codes'. If you do not mean that and you mean a number of favorable provisions, leniency provisions in relation to certain categories of prisoners, then there has been a discrepancy - correct me, if I am mistaken - including Members of the same parliamentary groups. I am referring to the New Democracy. In other words, I told you this: do you want to tighten up the criminal law framework for the treatment of minors abolished by No.4356/2015? Do you agree on this? You have to give an answer, in other words, 'yes, we want the minors to return. For specific offences, for which they can no longer be held, we want them to be held.' Do you want to restore the strict framework in relation to specific prisoners, patients, disabled and elderly? Are you interested in rehab, planning and prison rehab programs? Do you want to remove these? Do you want to abolish education programmes in prisons or the possibility given to specific prisoners to go to university institutions? That is what you must answer, that is to say 'yes, we want to abolish them' or 'no, we do not want to abolish them'. So, if you don't want these to be abolished, then what is left of you? You're left with Type III prisons. If that is what you want, then, say clearly, namely, "we want to bring back Type III prisons" and there society should hear that we were not talking about shops organized in a way that, in fact, would be safe. I would remind you that in such a or similar store there was a murder of a penitentiary officer by a prisoner and then a group of penitentiary officials executed this prisoner. Do you remember that story? Remember the scientific associations that had denounced the then government - there were forty-two professor signatures - and called on you not to proceed with the implementation of Type III prison, why does it not contribute, but rather create new problems? Do you remember the design of defendants or convicted of serious felonies gathering everyone in a detention store? There was a detention store, a Type III prison, where there were two hundred fifty accused and convicted of serious felony.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u177	Finish, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u178	I shall conclude, Mr President. I therefore believe that this debate that distorts reality and data, not only does not help in a debate that must be serious and sober, but also creates reflexes which are dangerous and which I think are of concern to everyone. I will conclude with the issues of the two parliamentary amendments. Parliament's amendment on the abolition of urging is accepted. Indeed, Mr Friday - but also others - I think it is sufficient. I would just like to respond to a position that has been made in relation to the fact that it will cause a problem in the provision of Article 409, that is, where we have an adult extremist extremist. He's not disturbed. We are not touching this provision and no legal issue arises, since begging is described as social behaviour. There is no other legal issue with the repeal of Article 407. Article 409 remains as it stands. No legal good is safeguarded. I would remind you that in order to be sentenced to beg under Rule 407, it should be shown that he is not lazy. I'm talking about fugitives. I therefore think that any reason for this crime has disappeared, because it could never be objectively established. In relation to the amendment tabled by the Communist Party - and I close, Mr President - there is always a debate here - there have also been corresponding amendments tabled by other parliamentary groups - in relation to the self-determination of offences by press when they are made by journalists. The way in which the amendment by the Communist Party was tabled, in my opinion, is wrong, because here you are considering the abolition of Article 242(3) of the Code of Criminal Procedure. At this point I would like to say that with the crimes committed through the press, it is always self-sufficient. That's what you want to abolish. The point is that these offences are not just slandering. There are other offences that can be committed in this way, i.e. stimulation crimes and racist crimes, so he needs some attention. What would be the solution? A first solution would be to abolish Article 417, that is to say, to refer to the self-determination process. Why is there another problem here? There is one problem that has to do with the protection of individuals. I mean, not just journalists. They write in the press and private individuals and individuals may have disputes among themselves even through the press. We therefore need to be a little more careful on this matter. If Article 417 is repealed, that is to say, the reference to the self-determination procedure, in my opinion, we must do so for offences from Article 361 to 363, that is to say to exalt and defamation. And we will have to do this not only for journalists, because otherwise we will have to create a new law on the responsibility of journalists, but for all citizens, that is, to see that, in fact, the way in which these offences are affecting a particular legal asset is a good thing. Another issue also arises there. Do we want to protect journalists from self-righteous offences denouncing public persons or any other citizen? So that's what we have to answer. For all these reasons, I suggest that we see first of all in a next piece of legislation, if we want to abolish self-reference, but we will have the issue of arrest, we will only abolish the referral. So if we want to move on to this first step and then see the issues as a whole, as I have said before, in the new Criminal Codes. I will meet with the CSCE in the next few days, to record their own view on this issue, and I think we can come back soon. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u179	Good, Minister. We start with the seconds of the rapporteurs and special speakers. We'll go in a row. Mr. Theocratic will take the floor, and then Mr. Karagkounis will take the floor. Here you go, Mr. Theophile, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, Mr President. I shall refer to the bill so that it does not lose its importance. This is a very important bill, which is passed by broad consensus, which concerns the transparency of the political world's finances and of all public officials. There is the consent of the political world, especially at the level of the principle - that was reflected in the committee and today - but also in those who were called upon to do so in the committee responsible and expressed their opinion. Apart from minor disagreements, in principle, and on the most important issues everyone has consented to the majority of the political parties. That's very important. Perhaps he should, indeed, have the title that was the first title of the 1964 legislation - and Mr Javarras and myself mentioned it in my first speech - 'Regarding the honor of the political world'. This is because, as I analysed in the first debate in committee, the bankruptcy and bankruptcy of the country and the Greek citizens is being charged somewhere, some are responsible for it. Greek citizens - and not unfairly - give the representatives of the four powers, of the four constitutional functions, of the three formal officials, - executive, legislative, court - and of the fourth who are the media. It is incomprehensible and extremely unfair that the country has been bankrupt, that it has entered the warpage of the memorials and that we still have so many billions of debts and the representatives of these powers as individuals to have riched, made money abroad, increased their assets. All Greek citizens are questioned "will anyone be punished?" They have their children unemployed and they think'some people are to blame for this, will they be punished?' Others have their children abroad, and that hurts them. "Will anyone be punished?". They have debts in the banks or in the public or in the ECA, and their debts are drowning, their properties are at risk. "Will anyone be punished?". Or even the power and the bills can't be paid. "Will anyone be punished?". So will any of those who have riched to the detriment of the rest and increased their assets without being able to justify the surcharge? Here is the core of "understood" and established over the past decades and becomes even more important today. And it happens today that we vote on the bill, one day after the detention, the provisional detention decision of a former minister, who was unable to justify the increase in his property, could not justify his infinite bank accounts at least at this stage. As I said in my first speech, I respect the presumption of innocence, but it is bent after a decision of temporary detention. We do not believe what the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative said, namely that we are all moral and our opponents, are all immoral. Nor in Greece in 1990-2010 were all immoral. However, it is a matter of percentage, it is a matter of management. Even in the European countries with the most ideal systems there is corruption of 2%, 5%, 8%. It is tolerated in a country's management and course. If it had reached 15%, 20% or 30% - I do not know where it had arrived in Greece - it is a matter of percentage, and that is why we are putting responsibilities in New Democracy and in PASOK, who handled the fates of this country. It is no coincidence now that half of the Shiite Government's Ministerial Council is in trouble with justice either they have been sentenced finally either by detention or by conviction and they remain free. And it is no coincidence that so many scandals have come out that have caused or made a decisive contribution to the country's bankruptcy. Mr President, allow me to promote the importance of the independence of justice. I have also insinuated it in a speech to the committees. Justice is not independent, there is nothing independent, something completely neutral in this world. Physical scientists, positive scientists say in vitro to perform an experiment, to be closed in his lab and to do an experiment, it affects it. This experiment is not independent. It's what he wants to do, what he intends to do, how he does his research. The subject shall affect the object. What I want to say about justice. Let us read the Constitution: "Justice and all the functions of the Greek state are exercised in favour of the Greek people". It is not independent in this sense of justice. It operates in favour of the Greek people and applies laws that we who are his representatives. When these were derailed, when they did not represent functions in the Greek people but other interests or themselves, then the country came out of the tracks of constitutional legitimacy and went bankrupt. Mr President, I would like to thank the Deputy Minister of Justice, Mr Papaggiopoulou, for having listened to the bodies, accepted the proposal to reduce the paradoxes in uniforms from EUR 200 to EUR 100 for the 30 days and from EUR 800 to EUR 300 for over 30 days and some other proposals not so important. I am going to dwell on something that the Minister of Justice has not mentioned, but we in the committee have mentioned. I don't know, Minister, if you could even make a statement about municipal police officers, because, in fact, the provision we bring and set a date by the end of March 2019 is very positive, no matter what the process of recruiting the penitentiary officers from the 6K call of the ADP. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] There are two things that we have said in committee and agreed, and if there is even one statement from you, it should be recorded in the minutes that the dossier and the official attestations can be prepared in the period after the end of the application. Because we are voting today, 24 October, and they have a deadline from the FEK - let us say - by the end of November where the applications will have expired. The months of December, January, February, as we have said in committee, let them be used to complete this bureaucratic process, make the dossiers ready, so that at the end of March - the applications will be made - that we have no delays and no elections. It may be a little late now to do this with a legislative improvement, but even one of your statements that should be recorded in the Minutes would be positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Karagunis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u182	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to see a little tolerance in time, because there are many issues which have been raised and which we need to resolve. I'll see to be very brief. I spoke earlier in my position at the outset that this government will remain in the history of its unprecedented and raw interventions in justice. I have heard earlier the Minister and the Deputy Minister and convincing answers to the issues that have arisen and are concerned with the news we have not received. As has already been said, there are two issues which, in fact, are shocking, considering the scope of these cases. The one, of course, is about the revelations made by Mr Kotzias, who conveys the complaints made by the Minister of National Defence within the Ministerial Council. And what did he say? That Soros finances the Greek government to buy foreign players. In these terrible complaints the country's Prime Minister deafed. Mr. Kammenos, in other words, tells you that you get money from Mr. Soros to buy out strangers and you're all deaf. You're not answering. And what's the strangest thing about this case? Following these complaints made by the Minister of Defense and in which, as Mr Kotzias says, nobody responds only to the Ministerial Council himself, instead of leaving the government, Mr Kammenos is finally leaving the government. And be careful what's interesting! In this decision, the Prime Minister is like accepting the complaints of Kammenos and, of course, leaves Mr Kotzias, because Mr Kammenos represents the responsibilities of Mr Kotzias and Mr Tsipras accepts it. The most strange thing is why they do not make public - the New Democracy said it today - the famous letter Kotzia. What are you afraid of, gentlemen of the government? And, of course, you as competent ministers of justice must take a stand. If we are well remembered in such cases, such as the partner in the Kotzia 'PRATT' movement - I am referring, of course, to Mr Toska - his resignation letter was made public. He didn't hide. The question is, why don't you do the same in this resignation letter? Leave the evacuations. Give the letter to the public to see, in fact, what has happened and to know what the Greek people have finally happened. You are also deaf in complaints made through Prosecutor Ryku's circles. The charges it is firing are shocking, because in fact it describes what Mr Paulakis dreams about, that is to say pressure at all costs to prosecute criminal prosecutions, there are - there are no signs of guilt. That's what the Corruption Attorney denounces. On this issue too - I have heard the Ministers - the government is deaf. And because complaints are not merely serious, but are afflicting the institutional functioning of justice and the executive itself, the government must stop deafing. What is now being denounced by Mrs Ryku's circles should be done in particular and specificised, because if I remember correctly, this prosecutor had already denounced that she was under pressure in the case of NOVARTIS and had already called for its replacement. Its complaints have already been recorded, but since then, there has also been a strange silence. Because indeed, Minister, Mr Kalogerou, there are judges, but in general there is a silence on this matter. It will therefore be good for these very sensitive issues both for democracy and for justice to stop silence and to have answers. We are now going very quickly to the articles in the bill, which I have already told you we have strong objections, even though on some points you have tried and made some changes, but, I am sure, many of the articles are still the problem. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like a little time, Mr President, because there are a lot of issues. I'll see to finish very quickly. I told you at first. We call 'yes' to control, we say 'yes' to transparency. That is why we do not disagree, and that is why in principle we voted 'yes'. But we cannot accept means and ways that can turn this control into immunity and a spacious framework that can allow legal excesses to be committed to the detriment of the debtors. I have analysed the discussion of the committees in sufficient detail, the issues raised and the possible unconstitutionalities that will arise following the vote on this bill and the issues of unconstitutionality have been raised by both the judicial associations, of course, at the hearing of bodies and by the scientific report of the House. In Article 1, you were right to correct the term 'head', because I had told you that this term is totally vague and does not identify the subjects in relation to the establishment plan. In Article 2, which concerns non-bank and securities, both judicial associations and Parliament's scientific report make extensive references and record these provisions that they are controlled by constitutional law. But I - because Mr Kalogerou said so - will not stick to the constitutionality they are putting forward, but I will repeat what I have mentioned many times. To return to what the Minister said, whether it is constitutional or unconstitutional, we Members will not judge it - because it has addressed us the floor - the Council of State will judge it. I told you something very specific, the mechanism for protecting personal data and data assets must be clear and specific, because otherwise it leaves the debtors to be exposed, there must be a leak of this data. In fact, I told the committee, as the benefit of the Paradise Act is among us, you understand how many and further risks exist. Because at this point I have referred to the Act of Friday and, of course, it has been made by all my colleagues and by the Minister of State, I will make my remarks to the amendment that actually extends this law to get us to agree. What you cannot say clearly and unequivocally, Mr President-in-Office, on the issue of penitentiary and anti-criminal policy, is what they call very clearly the SYRIZA Members and especially the Christodoulopoulos. For you it's an ideological issue, you don't want there to be prisons, you don't want there to be dealing with crime, according to the new data and the new form of crime that has been taken and the dimension that has been taken. So in order not to get tired, we will reinstate the high-security prisons, because they exist everywhere in the world, there are everywhere in Europe, there are everywhere in the rest of the world and in the western states. It's not our innovation. We will abolish the privileged type 2/5 penalties in any way and other provisions relating to decongestive law. What you have already done on your own by limiting the field of action of the law, which was done under a Kontonis Minister, and now by modifying the 110A of the Criminal Code, since after 2015 we had three hundred forty-five releases with these KEPA documents, which we will see how much they are "male", and of course we had the release of Florus. So what did you actually do? You yourself have degraded the law to a certain extent so far, you simply do not admit it. So we do the self-evident thing. We're going to ban him. And because the Minister has asked me whether we will abolish the actions, the very correct provisions that are in force - but they do not apply to this law, these provisions apply over time - to social work, to deal with drugs with therapeutic units - these have been established, many of these initiatives have been taken by us - and to educational institutions in prisons, obviously we will not abolish them. We will not dismantle, but we will strengthen such actions, Minister. And to be clear, what we're going to abolish is the privileged provisions you still hold with this law.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u183	Mr. Comrade, please complete. We're in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u184	I'm going to go ahead, it's a few articles that stay, so there's a total placement. For Article 3, too, we are negative because I have explained it adequately that if there is no mechanism for clear data protection, the law will collapse in practice and will become the people liable to be mistrusted. In Article 4, Minister, our disagreement remains, because, as it is formulated, we arbitrarily give the power to any auditor to violate five years and reach the criminal law limitation without having any reference to an interrogation or any other procedural act. Such provisions can turn the country into a jungle and witch hunt, which I have mentioned to you. Rule 5 will not analyse it in particular, and I have pointed it out to you in committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u185	Mr. Karaguni, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u186	I conclude, Mr President, what can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u187	Mr. Karaguni, the articles are 16. If we do it in turn, we'll go to night. You can also be expressed by your vote, it is not mandatory to report.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u188	Yes, but we have to explain - I said it before - our opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u189	Along with your dentistry, you've reached eleven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u190	I won't be long. The Minister has been placed for half an hour. I'd like two or three more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u191	Please shorten.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u192	Article 5 will not analyse it very much, as I have said. You have decided, Minister, to fly outside the citizens' institutional protector, I am referring to the Citizen's Counselor, replacing him with Ms Papaspyrou and you did not want to restore this injustice and institutional disobedience in our view. I told you in committee too. On the question of who designates the judges of this committee, that is, the President of the court in question as provided for and not the judiciary, that is what the judicial associations have already answered, but also the Scientific Committee of the Parliament, which characterises it as a constitutional problem. We're not telling you. The Scientific Committee itself tells you that. We pointed it out to you, you haven't changed it. In Article 6, paragraph 2, it remains the same problem of the five-year period I mentioned before, for the recovery of the case, because it has the same legal paradox. Article 7 also provides that both the Union of Judges and the Scientific Committee of the Parliament sees the provision in a problem, because strict penalties are provided for, without even linking these sentences to the origin of the benefit. Finally, in Article 8, as formulated, in particular paragraph 6, there can be a violation of personal data against and decisions of the European Court of Justice, but also contrary to the last European regulation that you are well aware of. I'm done, Mr. President. We had to table our strong objections to the articles and explain why they are problematic. For what I have told you, Mr Ministers, that many of the provisions you bring will be constitutionally checked, I finally confirmed. If you do not understand it, the Scientific Committee of the Parliament about all the provisions see constitutional problems. You understand what that means to the law. That is why, as I have explained, we said 'yes' in principle, but we cannot vote for about all of the articles. I will repeat that we will bring in an institutional framework, which will not have any constitutional problems, ensure control and transparency and, above all, will not turn the country into a vast witch hunt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u193	Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou from the Democratic Alliance has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kalogerou, I have been expecting a number of answers, which at least would refer to all three issues - not topical - relating to the functioning of justice and the functioning of the Ministry of Justice. Instead, you put yourself on the table and said that the issues of the Kotzia complaints and the Ryku cycles were raised, at least by me, in order to reduce the issue of the day, which is the temporary detention of Mr Papantoniou. You will allow me here to come back for this, because I do not understand what you mean. You mean the rest of the issues aren't topical? Last night Mr Papantoniou's provisional detention was decided, yesterday, we had Mr Kotzias' position in Crete - it is at the same time - where Mr Kotzias told you what I said earlier and which are related to the role of the Minister of Justice, when his colleague at the Ministerial Council blames another colleague and other colleagues for corruption. Apparently it's at the same time. Did the Riku leak thing - I give it as you said - emerged a week ago? Monday came out. So we do not choose between the issues to degrade one. As far as I am concerned, Minister, I have referred to all three. I told you what our position, my party, our parliamentary group, is on unobstructed and uninterrupted judicial investigation, so that everything can come to light. So I think there's no problem there. We have said, at the same time, and I repeat now to the insight that we have neither fear nor hide anything. This therefore also applies to all civil servants in the country, subject to judicial review of justice. So the one who didn't answer, Minister, on both of the three issues is you. You answered for Mr. Papantoniou. You said for how long Mr. Papantoniou was a predicted PASOK strain. You also said in his case that he was following regular justice and what you mentioned is that we said that the offence is being filed. And here I will come back, Minister, to tell you that you have made a little mistake. We were talking about infidelity at the time. There is another crime here, which has to do with bribery. Never a executive, a MP, no Member, not only a Member of the Change Movement, can refer to legalisation and say that it is not the subject of a search of justice. Money laundering, money laundering, money laundering from criminal activities is in the circle of the exclusive competence of justice and has always been that way. So what I note is that on the one hand you have not responded to any of the complaints which, either your colleagues or the public prosecutors, Mrs Ryku, have done. And finally I come to the conclusion that you and Mr Papagelopoulos have also referred to issues which I am even bigger questions when Mr Papagelopoulos told us that we will also talk about other courts, not just about the specialist, implying that there are other revelations that will come. I wish! Why don't you do them? You do them, we can all talk about it together. Let's see what these revelations are, which don't aim, I imagine, to any of the political people here. They're targeting judges. You've said that before. So without getting into the impression process, I tell you, Minister, that you did not respond. The silence of this government is because, on the one hand, it wants to cover Mr Kammenos against Mr Kotzias and on the other, it wants to cover or cover those who are involved in abuse of the justice institution on the one hand and blackmailing judges and prosecutors. That is not the end of today's debate. You said: 'When the complaints are made, they will be made surnames'. So I tell you, and I promise you that when the complaints are made - and they will be made - we will be here to remind you that we have not received an answer. I shall refer to the amendments very quickly. You will allow me to begin with the amendment which has to do with rejecting the amendment of the Communist Party of Greece. I'm not entering foreign land. I am only speaking on your own grounds, that is why it should be rejected. You know what? It made me a very big impression when you say that here it's not just the self-contained lighthouse, did you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u195	And other offenses.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u196	This is precisely what not only the slandering defamation but also other offences and that this will be solved through a dialogue within the Criminal Code. You know what? We tabled an amendment to Mr Katrugalos' bill on 26.9 which solved the problem and did not accept it. The amendment said that paragraph 3 of Article 242 of the Code of Criminal Procedure is replaced by the following: 'Crimes committed by the press, other than exaltation, simple and slandering, are always considered self-sufficient'. So all the rest is self-evident, except for what is being done through simple or slandering defamation through the press, as well as exaltation. He could have given a solution. And I'm telling you, what does it matter to you today to adopt this amendment and say that you are really giving a solution? To be all self-sacrificing, apart from the three who are interested, because that's what they're interested in. Simple and slandering are of interest, as is excitement. If you take these three off, let them be all the rest of the lights. What does that mean? That we don't have an arrest. You know that very well, because you are ministering the same area of Criminal Law and I tell you that there is a solution. Do it now and there will be no problem. You will barely bear a burden on journalists who do their job and, of course, you will have given a solution in all constitutional and legal terms. That is why we told Mr Katrugalos then that the justification, that we will see it in the context of the Criminal Code that will come, is just a paradoxical tactic. The second issue, Minister, for which I would like to talk to you, is the issue of the abolition of Article 407. Obviously, we agree. It's an antiquated provision. He's talking about fugitives and philosophers. It comes from the deep past of our Criminal Code. We have no reason to keep it. However, we have one reason to maintain a provision, Article 409, which will be the increase in the number of people who are concerned. Because if it goes away - I am talking about the substantive criminal law - now the provision on begging, then we must protect the most vulnerable who are being begged. And who are those who go into begging? The minors. So we have the possibility here, along with the abolition of Article 407, to punish this provision of Article 409 - until the Criminal Code changes - more stringently, all those who exploit minors and not - if you like - by imprisonment for six months. Because you know, one thing is getting the other. I have seen both 2011 and 2012 judicial decisions condemning the minor for begging, because he has done so from privatives and fugitives. Obviously, it is absurd for our legal culture. It is not absurd, however, but it is necessary today to safeguard and protect minors who are exploited by adults and even through organised crime circuits. I think you should think about it again. The intensification of dignity gives society a signal that I am abolishing something antiquated and I am coming to increase the penal repression, something that I find inhumane when it comes to minors. They're gangs that exploit juveniles. They are not just criminal offenders, they are not just perpetrators. They're gangs of organized crime. And since we are talking about organised crime, I shall end with the amendment on the extension of the decongested law. Look, here we are not dealing with whether the law is called Friday's Law or anything else. We are dealing with a deep political disagreement, with a deep legal disagreement, with a deep ideological distance that separates us. We cannot support any decongested law, not only with the extension, but also since 2015, which does not include within, Minister, basic offences for which they should not be out of prison, such as the organised crime referred to in Article 187 and the terrorist organisation. Why should they go out with these beneficial provisions? I didn't tell you there was no provision for the legislator. But these are special beneficial provisions. When I hear a colleague here saying 'no offences are excluded', I would like to say to you that offences are excluded at the same time and that they are excluded, that is to say they are reinstated. Tell me, too, or anyone - who listens to it today, because many listen to it - if you think you are doing it right, when you make an exception, for example, in an intentional homicide, it is excluded at first and then it comes back again. About the snatch. You're going to take out the ones who kidnapped Lebidakis. Abuse in greedy, child pornography, pornographic representations of minors, masturbation, trafficking, robbery. Why do you exclude them from the exception and do not allow the exemption to remain as provided for in Article 4 and not to go to paragraph 7? Above all, we cannot vote in favour of any provision which does not take into account the real but symbolic risk to society. And here to send a message that all crimes don't have the same penal decency. There are crimes that are greater and these will be exempted from beneficial provisions. That is our ideological and political difference. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Mr. Colleague. Mr. Carachosta, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u198	Mr President, I am not going to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u199	Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u200	Thank you, Mr President. For the bill itself, we have nothing to say in particular, and we have exhausted our view of both the protology and the meetings of the committees. Allow me, however, to go beyond what Mr Karagunis said in his protagonist on Stalin, the Soviet Union, etc., which, in our view, is a monument of anti-communism, a relic of slandering, historical amnesia and ignorance, and objectively such views serve fascist powers such as the Golden Dawn in our country, which puts forward exactly the same argument. You will tell me, this is where Mr Karagunis has arrived - and with the cover of the New Democracy of course - to be a admirer of the insurance system of the dictator Pinochet in Chile. It is difficult for you to digest - we can understand this - that the heroic Soviet people, the "Red Army" with the guidance of Stalin, raised the red flag with the hammering in the building - symbol of Nazism in Reichstag. It is a flag - a symbol not only against fascism, but also against capitalism, the sperm of which, of course, is fascism, nationalism, anti-communism. It is, in fact, an insult to the memory of twenty million Soviet dead, two Greeks who fell in the battlefields in our country with EAM and ELAS and the pioneering action of the Communists, leading to the collapse of a thousand-fashioned fascism, when the urban forces, that is, your forces, had suffered the flag and blurred or cooperated with the conqueror. There is a lot to talk about transparency, the fight against corruption and black money, when your own party, as an urban party, serves such a system that has it in his DNA, that is, you are serving a rotten, exploiting system. Anti-Communism, the 'black' propaganda, the distortion of history and the attempt to equate fascism with communism, the perpetrator with the victim, who is attempting not only by you but also by various other tubers of the system and the European Union, are doomed to fail in the role assigned to them by the system itself. What role? All sacrifices to the exploitation of man by man, the rot that emerges from his inner parts of this unjust system. What we have to say as a Communist Party of Greece is that the people have memory and judgment. Today, some people are afraid of the idea that, despite the retreat of the labour, the communist movement, humanity in the 21st century will indeed live a new era, much more mature, socialist revolutions. Some may get off the train, they are judged by history. Others are down and shooting, but the train has a steady course and will reach its prospects anyway. I shall refer to the amendments on which we have not been or have been tabled, and we have not had knowledge of them. With regard to the ministerial amendments, namely, the general number 1788 and specific number 165, which concerns the regulation of the requirements of pensioners and employees of the FIFG and the reconnection of the current, take note of, the amendment contains two strands. There are two completely different things. One is the regulation of the requirements of retired and retired workers and the other concerns a reconnection of power for certain households who have cut their current. Does one or other arrangement have anything to do with the other? Why are you bringing them into one single amendment? What's the point? What do they have to do with each other? In any case, let's stop these beans. And the older people did it, New Democracy and PASOK, and then, of course, the government continues it too. We denounce this practice and call on you to separate it from two different amendments. If this does not happen, we have to abstain from voting on this amendment. Why? Because, in the first part, on the arrangements for workers and pensioners, we want to vote 'at present', because there are indeed some chronic and many outstanding and fair claims, but they are not all resolved. That is why we want to vote 'at present'. This provision does not cover all claims but only part of them - not 30% - despite final judgments. At the same time, the Government invites them to resign from any other claim or claims. I mean, he's blackmailing them. This regulation comes at a time when the SYRIZA - ANEL Government - I am referring to the IGM - is preparing a legislative resolution on the conversion of EGM to a legal person under public law called EAGM, in order to put practically tombstones in the exploration of mineral resources in order to liberalise the scope for the development of large business groups in the mining sector, in order to facilitate the sale of mineral raw materials, water and the environment in general. Secondly, we want to say 'yes' to this current reconnection arrangement, although we believe that the needs are far greater than those covered by this regulation. Because the interested parties who have cut their heads off, because of their impoverishment by your anti-grassroots policies, are many more and therefore also more affected by the amount of the cost of the EUR 10 million covered by this regulation. And much more, because this regulation obviously does not resolve the great issue of energy poverty in the people's households that both your and previous governments have imposed, with the expensive electricity they pay. To close this issue, I would like, in our complaint about the unacceptable tactics of the government, to bring about joint amendments which are unnecessarily vague, in fact forcing Members of Parliament to change their will. As I said to you, we are voting for the IGM and for the consumers who have cut their current we say 'yes'. If you do not separate these two amendments, we have to abstain from voting on this amendment. For the operation of the National Entrepreneurship Fund, we are obviously saying 'no'. This will serve, through a strong aid grid, the big capital, despite the grand declarations on the leverage of capital, the strengthening of small and medium-sized enterprises, and so on. I would like to close with the amendment tabled by the Communist Party of Greece. Look, we were told exactly the same by Mr. Kontonis in March 2018 when we discussed amendments tabled by the JRC for some of the articles of "terror". He said that, you know, we'll see when the time comes to see the changes in the Criminal Code and go by and say. Just as you do now and, in our view, are pretexts in sins. We are keeping what you have said, but this continuing argument, that you know, somewhere is wrong, somewhere is not complete, which you have told us many times in relevant bills, means that there is a question, that in any case something you do not want. And now we are talking about an unprecedented issue, about an overtime demand that has been resolved at constitutional level, and what does the amendment tabled by the JRC simply provide for? To change this right in paragraph 3 of Article 242 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. In any case, we reserve the totality of the Minister's refusal and see what further steps we will be taking. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, Mr. Covenant.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u202	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u203	What do you want, Mr. Carraguni?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u204	I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u205	What's the staff? Tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u206	Mr Synthrakis has said that with what I say, in the logic I have developed for Stalin, I am strengthening fascism and Nazism.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u207	I'll give you the floor, but your speech...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u208	I would therefore like to place myself on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u209	You're letting me tell you? I'll give you the floor, but we have to get to know each other. And your speech had references to totalitarianism, communism, Stalinism, and Mr. Synthetakis felt the need to respond based on his own history of the system of his evenings.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u210	Mr President, I did not attack personally and I always respond politically.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u211	However, you know that there can be no dialogue now on communism and Stalin. That's not gonna be the case.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u212	There's been a personal report, but I'll answer politically.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u213	The opposition libel of the New Democracy could not remain unanswered.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u214	And from me there will be no answer to what you said, that I, with my positions, am strengthening fascism and Nazism.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u215	We had victims, prisons, exiles, we can't tolerate that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u216	Mr Colleagues, I have mentioned the need for you to defend your history, and I tell you that it is not a reason to have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u217	Wait a minute. We have no controversy, we will only speak politically. I asked for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u218	Mr. Karaguni, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u219	Mr. Synatiakis, we will not now write history. History has been written for everyone and has rendered Caesar Caesar's Caesari. I should just like to remind you of one element concerning "now", "now" and, of course, also about your resignation, but also about the SYRIZA's party, so that the world understands what is happening here and what is being voted on in this Greek Parliament. The JRC and SYRIZA are also present - and you will understand what I mean - as fighters of Nazism and Fascism. When, Mr Syntagakis, we were discussing anti-racist law here - and you remember it very well - in Article 2 specifically remember what it defined? That those who refuse the Holocaust must be punished. Both the JRC and the SYRIZA voted against this provision and Article 2, with the argument - you hear - that it is the subject of a historical investigation. Mr. Synhronakis, is the subject of a historical investigation of the millions who died in the hangars? Is the gas chambers subject to historical investigation? In order to know what we say in this Chamber, what positions we take and what we vote on the various bills and who is the champion of fascism and Nazism.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u220	Mr Kagarakouni, it is inconsistent, but it is not all that you have said about today's debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u221	It's an object.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u222	Totally different things we're talking about today. Your comment was interesting, but we're not staying on it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u223	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u224	Now let's not go on with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u225	Allow me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u226	Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u227	The hanged man's house never speaks of rope. Mr Karagunis is, of course, a representative of a party serving this system, which is also served by today's SYRIZA-ANEL conflict. So this system that served today comes on foot high and head down to reverse the historical reality, which says what? That fascism was crushed by the Soviet Army, by the Soviet Union that gave millions of dead victims. The communists, the patriots, the progressive and democrats here in our country did the same. Where were you?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u228	All right, Mr. Synatia, let's turn it off.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u229	Your quotation where was when we stood at 11 feet, when our own people went to prisons and to dry islands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u230	This is where we were struggling.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u231	Mr. Symphony and Mr. Carraguni, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u232	So this reality cannot be reversed and mudded into the fan!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u233	Mr. Covenant, please help me, too. I gave you the opportunity to defend both your ideology and your history. But do not insist on this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u234	Finally, he does not care for a party that served such a system with all its appearances coming out today from above.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u235	Mr Papachristopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u236	Thank you, Mr President. I won't delay the process at all. Everything I had to say in my prototype. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u237	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague Mr. Amyras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u238	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be brief too. I will start with the amendments to conclude with a comment of political and topical importance that we have mentioned earlier. You can also understand from my theory that Potami cannot vote in favour of the amendment granting an extension of the Paradise Law. That is why I am looking at my dear colleague, Mr Paradise, who is on my right. But, on Friday - so that I do not over-compensate you, my dear fellow Member - for the offence of urging us to vote in favour of it. Also, this quick and reflective move and the warming of almost the government through the government's MPs to deal with an issue that has emerged from the current situation, namely the arrest of a street musician on the charge of subsidisation, I wish you also to show on the issue I raised to you, the need for equality in the custody of children from divorced parents or parents who have recognized outside marriage. I'd expect answers to that. I would expect you to tell me why the Legislative Committee that has taken this issue so long and took another six months of extension. Why did we only have seven sessions in six months? They are the experts of the committee, and that should not be the case. The amendment that has been incorporated - I do not remember what article - on the detention shop in Drama will be voting in favour of it. Here, of course, I cannot comment on the fact that the presidential decree has been completed since last year, since December 2017, and has entered your ministry's organization just a year later and just before the elections. The 'just' I call it ironic. I am interested to raise two issues openly: firstly, the annual expenditure of EUR 3.7 million resulting, which is not justified enough. Also, why are the positions two hundred fifty eight and not a hundred or a hundred fifty six? In addition, this notice relates to the recruitment of six hundred and thirty-three permanent posts in prisons? They're joining us? They're getting into this number? Or you did not have time to send the relevant request for recruitment. Finally, as regards Amendment No 1786, concerning the mobilisation of doctors, nurses and staff in public hospitals, health centres, etc., this is another case of a special provision derogating from Law 2190/1994, in order to satisfy and premium those who have worked in the public health sector. What about those who have worked in the private sector? Why do we still have two yards and two stations? We shall vote against this amendment for this reason. Finally, we believe that Amendment No 1788 on the IGM is necessary. We have also discussed this in previous committees, not as an amendment, but as an issue. We will be voting in favour of it. I am making my last comment on politics and topicality. I will not follow - although it would be a temptation - the reasoning of my dear colleague and the majority rapporteur, Mr. Theochemistou, saying: Will any Minister who declaredly took millions from foreign forces, or soros? I'm not going into that logic. I also understand the effort or, in any case, the immediate conclusion of the political leadership of the Ministry of Justice with Mr. Kammens from the answers of both Ministers to the questions I raised earlier. Why would we do that? Mr. Kammenos is number 2 in the government. Since Mr. Tsipras sacrificed Mr. Kotzias for the sake of Mr. Kammenos, I would not expect a different attitude from that. But you didn't have to answer me or Mr. Kotzia. We invited you to answer Mr. Kammenos's complaints. That is all, Mr President, and thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u239	Thank you, Mr. Amyras. Mr. Saridis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u240	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, no unconstitutionality. We believe, on the side of the Central Association, that both priced and any movable or immovable asset should be declared. Let's not hide behind our finger after all. I would like to begin my dentistry with an observation. And today you would not have had time to reverse the parliamentary picture that you have created for three years, even the fact that, within an amendment, you can bring two unrelated things so that, depending on where each political formation is moving, you can force him to take a position. That's not right, Minister. He'll have to stop. We're out of memorials, as you say. We've entered the period of normality. Let's at least make sure that the legislature is as normal as possible. You continue to blame the previous ones for the same thing you have been doing for three years, by pressing on the next ones who will continue to legislate in the same way, because in Greece things do not change. It is not easy for Greece to change things. In Greece, therefore, legislation is being implemented by means of amendments rather than bills. So what does that mean for the quality of parliamentary procedures? Let us look at today's amendments. Amendment No 176, which provides for the extension of the arrangements laid down in Articles 43 and 44 of Law 4489, will not be supported. How can we prolong something that his results are controlled? You think we're done with our release investigations? We refuse to collide, then. The responsibility for the instructions our judges have is yours and yours alone. It's the government's responsibility. With regard to Amendment No 1777 and specific number 158, which amends the Agency of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, so that more prisoners can be recruited, as it provides for the creation of two hundred and fifty new posts of the staff of the detention shops, in particular for the maintenance of the detention store in Drama, we cannot even give you our vote here either. This is a fragmentary action. The problem we have in Greece with the overpopulation of prisons and the delay in the administration of justice is not solved either by taking out criminals or making new prisons. You have so far failed to tackle the tragic situation in Greek prisons in a comprehensive and planned way. That's the truth. On the contrary, we will support Amendment 1780 supplementing the provisions of Article 278 of Law 4555, which refers to the possibility of switching to municipal police services for the municipalities of the former municipal police officers who were in detention. The truth is that this is an injustice that is corrected, an injustice against people who have not been responsible for anything, but who have paid it so that some effects on the channels can be politicized. That's what they paid. We will also support Amendment No 1786 because we want our doctors to stay in Greece. You know, we have served with Greek doctors all European hospitals, with doctors who, in order to study them here, spend a lot of money and then we send them away and we tell them: "Go. It's better there. Why would you sit here?" We therefore agree with the provision of extra mobilisation of the experience of hospital staff and health centres in notices to cover the position of nurses and other staff. We are also positive about the transition for a month of the end of the process until the end of November. As far as the amendment on the EGF is concerned, there we will say'residents' for the reasons we have said before, but also because we believe that the problem is not solved by extensions. We were giving extensions when we were out of normality. Today the elections will come. Are we going to work on extensions again? Are we going to hold hostages for some people who want a definitive solution to their problem? It's not right, Minister. We'll have to change our way of co-legislation sometime. As we had kept our guard for the bill, we will say that the Central Association will vote 'yes' in today' in the bill, however, that we have not been given explanations and many articles will stand by a negative vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u241	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister's closing the debate for a minute. Minister, you have the floor. Please, speak as soon as you can and more thoroughly
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u242	In conclusion, Mr President, I shall refer to conclusions and some answers to questions raised in the procedure. Firstly, we all take the view that it is a jungle and a witch hunt after five years in cases where we have evidence of specific offences. Civic Opposition considers this to be a witch hunt and a jungle. Of course, it has also developed specific arguments in a specific context. Mr. Synthrakis made specific historical points. I too would like to say a more general comment, a more general one, that, in fact, in the legislation of the Ministry of Justice, and in matters relating either to anti-crime policy or to issues of institutional armour to combat corruption, they have always conflicted, conflicted and conflicted with different worlds. The problem is - and I repeat - that, in my opinion, far-right rhetoric creates reflexes, which are suspected, extremely dangerous, once again - that we are all called upon to be sober and serious when discussing issues related to either anti-crime policy or institutional draft laws, such as this. Nor was it recorded in terms of Officerial Response nor, however, by the Change Movement what your position is in relation to prices and positions with the statement of amounts outside bank accounts. That is to say, you highlight concerns of constitutionality. But what I asked you to say - at least the Census that raised this issue - and you did not say that you agreed as a parliamentary group in relation to that statement because, as you know, the administration decides how it complies with judicial decisions. The Government has therefore decided, with this legislative initiative, to comply with the decision of the Council of State with this increase in the financial value of money and money. That was the government decision. Do you agree? Do you think the money should be declared? Do you think we should all declare the money that is outside bank accounts? You didn't answer. With regard to the subject of topical and urgent subjects of major importance, what I have said and I repeat is that the issues of topical and urgent importance have covered the debate and the specific legislative work, and I said that there are specific procedures and accountability and parliamentary control, in which these issues can be raised to them, who have addressed these leaks, these debates, in any way, you consider it appropriate. I think this debate today was not, in my opinion, appropriate. That is why I have not only told you that you are trying to resolve another issue of topicality, but I have also reserved for myself another position in relation to the issues of topicality. That is why I have not even referred to the case of this particular political person, who is temporarily detained from yesterday. I have only said what the concerns which existed in terms of both a government majority and a opposition in terms of the establishment of the pre-review and the conclusion of the pre-review committee were. That's why I only confined myself to it. I am also afraid that we have recycled a vicious circle in relation to the circles. I said that, and in this respect, there is a way, there are specific procedures, when things are personified and specified and do not remain at the level of leakages and impressions that so badly harm discussions about justice. I would also like to reply to the question raised in relation to the organic positions that are being set up. These are beyond the SAP process completed. Following the adoption of this provision, the positions are set up, and from there on, the procedure in which the request to the Minister for Administrative Reconstruction and the Minister for Finance is made to the Minister for Finance, in relation to the Act of Minister for Foreign Affairs of 33/2006, in order to approve these recruitments. So, they're new recruitments. I have answered you in this respect. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] There is still the question of the amendment - and it is the last point, Mr President, which I shall make - of the Communist Party of Greece. I have taken note of a particular concern without any chance of escaping you. The concern is that, as formulated, it does not exclude other offences which are also carried out through the press. And I imagine that you have the same concern after that, namely, with regard to racist crimes and others. In reply to Mr Papatheodorou, who said "we have, however, brought you an amendment that was formulated in the reverse, namely that everything is always self-sacrificing, apart from what it is not", it was tabled in a bill that I was not present - and he could not accept it, I had to accept it, and I was in agreement with Mr Katrugalos who was at the time speeding up the bill - and there the answer is a technique again. And it is on two axes: first, if we formulate it in this way, that is, if we say 'is always self-sacrificing, apart from what it is not', it can be understood that it is not always self-sacrificing. Do you understand what I mean? These are observations on the legislature made by prosecutors. I'm not the only one telling you. It is my personal view, too, but it is also a reflection. Secondly, I told you that overall reflection is about what we want to protect. So the reporters from what? From the self-sacrificing procedure triggered by complaints from public persons, which must be tolerated by public persons, to demonstrate in practice their tolerance of criticism? Do we want to protect the private? Do we want to protect individuals who can confront and disguise themselves through press releases? That's what I said, that's complicated. And because it is complex, neither with one wording - in my opinion - we solve it, or at least we do not record what we want to resolve. I conclude by saying that we have already organised a meeting with the CSCE in order to raise these technical issues, to record the proposal of the CSCE, to make a concrete proposal as well. And because I understand the seriousness of the matter and the fact that there is a consensus at the outset in this House on the abolition of the self-sacrifice, we must come up with how and exactly what offences and we do not have to wait for the Criminal Codes which will in any case come in the next quarter. We can, on a legislative initiative that you or we can either resolve this issue without any other evasion. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u243	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights is adjourned: 'Urgent arrangements for the submission of statements of assets and other provisions'. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. Ladies and gentlemen, we would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, sixteen articles, four amendments, the farewell article, and the whole bill. Each time on the screen they appear as four articles for vote. To vote and the rest you have to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. Make sure that you have voted for all the articles, amendments, the hotel article and the whole. After you register your vote, you have the opportunity to check it out and to revise it by the end of the vote. For any question, please contact the Bureau so that the officials concerned can assist you. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u244	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u245	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u246	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: ‘Urgent arrangements for the submission of statements of assets and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u247	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u248	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-24-S1-commons.u249	With the consent of the House at 18.45 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday 25 October 2018 at 9.30 seconds on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
