ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the debate on the topical and urgent questions, I have the honour of announcing to the House the newsletter on Friday 16 February 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question by Mr Andreas Katsaniotis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, dated 1080/13-2-2018, by Mr. Achaias, Member of the New Democracy Parliament, Mr. Andreas Katsaniotis, Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: “Decoration of saints and effects on coastal areas of Achaia”. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: “Incorporation of sewerage networks and waste water treatment projects Kontovasina, Levidi and Kallianios Arcadias”. 3. The Question No 1081/13-2-2018 by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the creation of a landfill area for hazardous waste (HHYTEA) in Megalopolis. 4. The question by No 1008/7-2-2018 of the Greek Parliamentary Second Chamber of Deputies, George Lazarides, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on "Adaptation of the debt arrangements to PPC in social and economic reality and a specific provision in areas with RES". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under number 1079/13-2-2018, a topical question by MP II, New Democracy, Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou, Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on investment delays in broadband investment. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP II of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information on the subject: "The need to restore the reduced postal fee for the forms of the owners - journalists who are or may be members of the EDPS". 3. The question raised by Mr Athanasios Athanasios to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, dated 993/6-2-2018, on the subject: ‘Twelves of decommissioned ships and shipwrecks in the port area of Elefsina’. 4. The question by number 997/6-2-2018, by MP Kozani of New Democracy Mr. Georgios Kasapidis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Addressing the recurring epidemic attacks of the insect of Lymantria dispar in Kosanis with biological methods". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) The question, under number 1139/92/13-11-2017, was asked and applied for the submission of documents by MP II of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister for Migration Policy, on the subject of "unjustifiable delay in the drafting and publication of the quarterly reports of the Appeals Authority against the decisions of the Asylum Office". Ladies and gentlemen, I also have the honour of announcing the following to the House: The Standing Committee on Morphic Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs "Creation of a Convention for the Functioning of the Greek Institute of Pasteur". The Standing Committee on Production and Trade presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development ‘Integration into the Greek legislation of Directive 2014/104/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 November 2014 on certain rules governing compensation actions under national law for infringements of the provisions of competition law of the Member States and of the European Union’. The Standing Committee on Social Affairs submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, 'Maximum development of the Agricultural Insurance Agency to the Organisation for the Preferential Benefits and Social Solidarity (OPEKA) and other provisions'. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We begin with the third with number 1041/12-2-2018, a topical question by MP Phytidis of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Dimitrios Vettas to the Minister of Home Affairs, on the subject: "Pyresponsibility for five years of obligation and re-appointment of seasonal firefighters". This timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for the Interior, Mr Toskas. Please, Mr. Vetta, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, thank you for responding directly to my question concerning the five-year duty of firefighters and the re-entry of seasonal firefighters. As you know better than I, in the category of Five-year Obligation Firefighters, two thousand hundred and sixty-three firefighters, whose term of office has been extended for three years and after the end of this period, the process of their integration into the permanent staff of the Firehouse on the basis of logistics, which took place in January 2018. The remaining seven hundred forty-four firefighters, on the basis of the above-mentioned record, have renewed their mandate for five years, but without having full duties to meet the service needs of the body, overtime in the night, as well as Sunday and exceptional days, as provided for in the other categories of firefighters. For the above firefighters, the provisions of Article 15 of Law 3938/2011 shall apply, as amended and currently applicable. In addition, before the beginning of the 2018 anti-missile season, there is a reasonable interest by everyone in the category of seasonal firefighters. They are contractors with a duration of five months per year, of course taking into account the opinion of the Board of Directors under number 117/2016. So you ask, Mr Minister, about the five-year obligation of firefighting when the two thousand hundred and sixty-three fire extinguishers are expected to be permanentised, and if the work of the seven hundred forty-four fire-fighters is to be continued after the end of the five-year renewal period, as is the definition for the second case of full-time, holidays and overtime, which will also strengthen the proper functioning of their services. You also ask, for the category of seasonal work firefighters, whether it is before the start of the anti-nuclear period of 2018 that the already employed seasonal fire-fighting firefighters should be reappointed with a work relationship of private law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Vetta. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Vetta, we as government are proud that we have now solved fire-fighting problems, which were dealt with some time ago as a matter of party and vote. Last year, as the House knows, we undertook to incorporate the five-year-old firefighters qualified for permanent staff within three years. And this was before a year, as we promised them, that we would not wait three years, but we would continue to work towards their full integration into permanent staff. And they had not joined the permanent staff because they had, as I said before, become the subject of party exploitation, ridiculed these people and had not joined the procedures provided for in the respective charges in the Army and the police. So these people - and we are referring, of course, to the two hundred and eighty-three, as you write - are now joining the permanent staff, before a year has passed since their three-year term. In cooperation with the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction and Ms Gerovasilis' efforts, they are part of permanent staff. Starting has been set for April 2018, in one and a half months. There is now the final processing for the extradition of the FYROM, and then the presidential decree, which is absolutely typical, will be issued for the full integration of these people. Time-share integration is - as I told you before - in April. With regard to the remaining five years of obligation, which were not qualified and which have accepted to be a separate category, their five-year term of office was renewed last year and they continue to be paid and work according to their contract. Yes, there are the issues of overtime, nights, weekends, but that's what their contract provides for. If all these issues were to be treated as others, we would now have a different category of workers, beyond what their contract provides for. As far as seasonal issues are concerned, an amendment will soon be tabled to continue their employment in the current anti-nuclear period. You know, I think we have had the problems with the decision of the Council of State, which considered that their continued employment for many years is creating a precedent for their integration into another employment situation and that is why the Council of State did not want to renew for this year the continuation of their employment, and that is why we intend to bring to Parliament an amendment. Because an effort which has been made to integrate them through the AACC seems to be unable to proceed with the limited time that we have before us and which is why an amendment will be tabled to these people soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Vetta, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u6	I'm going to need just a minute, Mr. President. Minister, thank you very much. I'll go back to the first class, in the two thousand hundred and sixty three fire extinguishers category. I would like to ask if it is foreseen in the Staff Regulations, if you have in mind to include arrangements, so that there are, if you like, their wage and salary balance. I don't know if you've got that in mind or if something's planned to happen in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u7	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u8	Mr Vetta, it is true that, when they joined the permanent staff category, a number of other issues need to be resolved which relate to their hierarchy in relation to other firefighters. They will have all the rights and obligations of the other permanent staff, but there are indeed issues, as for the other categories. There are still a number of issues for permanent staff, because, as I have said before, the integration of staff into the Fire Corps from various categories and not from the pan-Hellenic, as it began last year, raises many issues. There are discrepancies, there are issues which have been resolved in the other Security bodies and in the Armed Forces, but they have not been solved for the Fire Corps, precisely because they joined staff from various categories, without rules, and we are currently trying to correct the bad texts for too many decades. Indeed, after they have been permanently resolved, issues like what you have said and which are unfortunately not solved in one day will need to be resolved. But we are making a great effort, in addition to the other efforts we are making to modernise the Fire Corps in education, we call on foreign firefighters to exchange our own experiences, but every knowledge is welcome for our firefighters who are fighting every summer and winter. But they need better organization, they need better education, they need better settlement of the problem areas and the structure of the Fire Corps, and that's what we're trying to do. There are too many problems in the Fire Corps like what you mentioned. We dare and put the knife to the bone when it comes to resolving the various issues. It's not easy, but I think the firefighters have figured it out and the whole world realizes that we dare and try in the field of the Fire Corps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u9	Thank you very much, Minister. We move on to the next two topical questions which will be answered by the Minister for Culture and Sport, Mr Connordou. The first question under number 1039/12-2-2018 of the First Cyclade of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Antonios Syrigos will be discussed at the Minister of Culture and Sports on the subject: “Rescue the historic cemetery of St. George Ermoupolis Syros”. Mr. Syragos, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Minister, for your immediate response. In Ermoupolis Syros and the district of Naples, the cemetery of Agios Georgios was founded in 1837, one of the most prominent of our country and paimillo, for some historians, of the First Cemetery of Athens. Within this area there are monuments, works by mainly Greek artists, inspired by the current of classicalism, belonging to the prominent families of Ermoupolis. As noted in a recent resolution of the Society of Cycladic Studies, the architectural types and the sculpture of monuments provide important elements in the history of modern art, developed in the newly established Greek state, as well as in the understanding of the socio-economic history of Ermoupolis. Unfortunately, however, their risk of destruction is not only before the gates, but has already occurred, as serious defects and disasters have occurred, while some have literally been arrested, having removed marble plates, crosses, and even whole sculptures. All this despite the efforts of the mayors and the local community since 1980 to rescue them. This match comes to be added by the Society of Cycladic Studies, which by a resolution attacks the risks, wondering why while the Ministry's services have recorded the situation several times and have carried out the necessary studies, no funding has ever been provided to date for their implementation. Furthermore, at times the municipal council of the Municipality of Syros - Ermoupolis has approved several amounts for full financial coverage of proposals submitted by the Ministry, stating still its willingness to undertake the maintenance work and the cost, always under the supervision of the Ministry, without having received an answer from the ministers concerned - for example: Evangelos Venizelos, Antonis Samaras, Paul Geroulanos. It is worth noting that parts of this historical cemetery have been declared historically maintained by the Ministry itself under ministerial decision No 2747/43775 FEC 717/B/15-11-1990. In support of my question, I shall submit some documents. Is the Minister asking: Is the rescue of this historic cemetery a priority, and if so, what steps will be taken to ensure that the services concerned act and what time horizon, taking into account the urgency of the situation? Has the possibility of seeking the necessary financial resources and European programmes been explored? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. Syrigos. Madam Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Syrigo, I would like to agree with you that Saint George's cemetery in the Neapolis district of Ermoupolis, Syros, is indeed an ark of history and art, and the state must protect it and show it. It is decorated, like the First Cemetery of Athens, with masterpieces of architects and nameless artists. As you know, in 1990 the status of protection is defined by the Ministry of Culture of the cemetery with a number of gravel sculptures as a historically preserved monument. The Ministry of Culture, with its services and with its resources, has entrusted a number of studies for several years. In particular, it is four structural studies and thirteen maintenance studies. Of course these studies need to be updated. They spend the years and when they do not apply, new pathogens are created in monuments. However, these studies are available. A programme contract between the Municipality of Syros and the Ministry of Culture is signed in 2010 for conservation projects. As you know, the cemetery is in charge of the city. Therefore, the Ministry of Culture cannot do anything without the co-operation of the municipality. At that time, the municipality intended to finance 450,000 work under the supervision of the Ministry of Culture. Unfortunately, this programme was not implemented for reasons of lack of financial resources from the municipality. Also, a new programme was signed in 2013, which was also not completed. As I told you before, the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture is limited. It belongs to the Municipality of Syros in the cemetery. However, the Ministry of Culture is always at its disposal - and with good preparation on the basis of existing studies - to create new conditions of cooperation with the municipality in order to protect the cemetery.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u13	Thank you very much to the Minister. Mr Syrigos has the floor for three minutes for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u14	I thank the Minister for her findings and conclusions and for the willingness with which she has also responded to the spirit of cooperation. I would just like to point out that my question is a direct nuisance but also an appeal for action before it is too late. That is why I would like to see specific commitments made by the Ministry, particularly in time. Moreover, because the issues of culture evade the narrow limits of the local case, the benefit will be general, i.e. in favour of the entire Greek society. The municipality has indeed set up a rescue committee and wants to cooperate. And he's willing to contribute what he demands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u15	Thank you very much Mr. Syragos. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u16	First of all, I would like to say that we welcome the resolution of the Society of Cycladic Studies, which has highlighted precisely this great value of the monument and we are sick on any initiative. The steps to be taken at this stage are as follows: First of all it is an update of the studies. Then it is to regain all necessary approvals from the Ministry. And thirdly, which is the most important one - it is the finding of funds to fund actions and work. As you know, the Ministry of Culture has no own resources to integrate the studies into the ESDP programmes. This must be done through the region. And of course, with many regions, we have very good cooperation and there is a good mood. However, the Municipality of Syros must take on a coordinating role to help us propose these projects with up-to-date studies to join either local government or regional programmes. Therefore, as the alleged owner of the cemetery, he must coordinate the actions. The Ministry of Culture, as I said before, is ready to provide its know-how for the restoration and maintenance of monuments and will facilitate at the level of studies as well as at the level of approvals the speeding up of the procedures so that the wealth of these works can be saved to the maximum extent. We are open to cooperation and synergies, as we do with all the regions of Greece and with local government, to protect this important monument.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u17	Thank you very much, Minister. We are now moving on to the first with number 1040/12-2-2018, a topical question by MP Kozanis of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Themistoklis Mumoulidis to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "The cultural policy of the Ministry of Culture and Sport to strengthen, develop and support modern culture in the Greek region and the future of the theatre in the region". Mr Mumulides has the floor for two minutes for his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Minister, for your immediate response. You are aware that the main priorities of a national cultural policy are the development of structures and the strengthening of regional institutions and creators, as well as the promotion of cooperation and co-productions between institutions, centre and region. In the area of modern culture you know much better than everyone that the realistic, effective response to institutional, organisational and economic issues that have arisen in recent years is now necessary, on the one hand, because of the long economic crisis and, on the other, because of the outdated institutional framework which has existed in important areas. The time-consuming unjusted Greek region should begin with specific policies. The figures are a firm demonstration of the timeless injustice of the Greek region. For example, I am referring to what you all know best, namely that the Ministry of Culture has less than 3% for the fiancés of modern culture in the Greek region. Since, therefore, the encouragement of cooperation between the centre and the region is now appearing absolutely necessary, since the status of the Municipal Regional Theatres PPCTIH has long exhausted its dynamics, and therefore the need to redefine and operate the institution is imperative because the distribution of money and aid attributed by the Ministry of Culture, respectively, to the bodies of contemporary culture in Athens, Thessaloniki and the region, is completely unfair, ineffective and improper in all respects of decentralisation, because the work produced by the leading national institutions - National Theatre, National Observatory, National Observatory of Northern Greece, Megaron Thessaloniki and Athens - could have a multiplier effect, because the implementation of a documented policy of decentralisation and strengthening the Greek region can create a significant number of jobs, asked by the Minister: Firstly, what action does the Ministry of Culture intend to take to redefined the institution of PPC in the Greek region - I would not say so - would I say the institution of the theatre or of the arts in the Greek region - so that with a new documented and realistic geographical breakdown, grants, cooperation and artistic potential can be exploited? Secondly, what action does the Ministry of Culture intend to take to strengthen relations and, in particular, cooperation between the institutions of the centre and the region? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u19	Thank you very much, Mr Mumulides. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr Mumulides, for giving me the opportunity to explain my thoughts and concrete actions, which have been taken by the Ministry for a subject to which I have devoted a large part of my life and which I am particularly hurting. The institution of the theatre through the institution of the Municipal Regional Theatres, as you said, has for years been left to his fate. There was no substantial monitoring of the institution. This institution, by an institution intended to give dignity to artistic and identity to the region, was left to become a cuff many times of the centre or under the almost imperialist enforcement of the centre's priorities and gradually lost its potential. It has ceased to be a nursery of young creators, a nursery of local powers - and indeed, in cooperation with young people who could provide their strengths and be tested in the region - and has been transformed into a number of times a profitable, commercial shape, which has nothing to do with the cause for which they were financed. We have all lived through this, and we are all very concerned about these developments, and we have found that the patient is severely ill. We have already wanted to take steps since last year. We do not think there can be a sharp change, because we are dealing with local societies, with institutions and with laws. So we took two main initiatives last year. One was to restore to the program the element of high quality artistic and artistic director as a necessary condition, and that is why we passed a provision in June, which is exactly what helps the PPC to recruit artistic directors not on the criteria of PAP or on the basis of university training, but on the basis of the artistic authority of the artistic director. Furthermore, another element that we have set again, which had almost completely extinct on substance, was control. We have asked for the annual economic and artistic account, as well as planning for the new year. On the basis of these criteria, therefore, there was a differentiation in the financing of PPC. There was a reward for the PPCs that kept the programme agreement as far as possible and kept a high level of jobs, with the provision of cooperation between them and on this basis we saw and were able to distinguish between the PPCs that responded. For example, the good examples of the Municipal Regional Theatres of Patras, Larissa, Kozani, Ioannina, Kavala, Serres and Crete. These, therefore, have received a higher subsidy than the others, which lacked. This is what we consider to be an incentive to all PPC to look again at the institution if they want to stay within the network. For this year we are taking a step further. We are putting new criteria and incentives into the new programme for the allocation of resources. We consider it important that there should be a fair distribution, but on the basis of merital criteria. So, apart from the presence of the artistic director, which we are glad to see that one - one of the PPCTIs begins and recruits artistic directors with artistic criteria, as an essential criterion for the presence of 80% of professional actors. We have seen the phenomenon in the past that there are amateur or amateur actors to a large extent and that there is no employment for professionals at a time when this area is plagued by unemployment. In addition to these two, we therefore want the spirit of cooperation to be developed, not easily and with wishfulness, but with concrete steps and specific incentives. We want there to be cooperation between the neighbouring counties and their PPCIs, not necessarily putting the seat in one of the two, because this creates conflicts between local communities and it is not necessary, but they can join forces, make co-productions, save money, and thus with the additional grant, which is the incentive of the Ministry, to have additional savings of resources, to increase the level of artistic life and tour within their region. This is where we want to integrate dynamically and the region's presence so that the Municipal Regional Theatre can also make sense. We want the region to contribute, which is already contributing to some regions by the region in the DPRK, and we want to do so in institutional terms, to join the programme agreement. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] Another element that we want to motivate is the extroversion, the relationship of the municipal regional theatres with similar not only Greece, but also abroad, with co-productions and the incentive to do this. There are such moves within Europe, and we want to give this inspiration, but with specific financial support, for this to happen. A further criterion is the support of young artists, young artists, who, with the institution of the residencies, will be able to produce their work in the region and offer it there, increasing the audience, bringing young people to the DIFTH.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u21	Madam Minister, if you wish, we will continue with your dentistry, because we have reached seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u22	Because we have something else to say in dentistry, I would like to add something last: identity. We don't want to have an imitation of the center. We want every DIFFERENCE to have its own identity, whether artistic or through what emerges through the area itself. So we believe that the institution emerges and is not left to its fate.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u23	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Mumulides, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we have both served the Greek region, and quite symptomically from the same institutions, that is, we have both passed from the regional theaters of Volos and Patras. So we know very well what theatre means in the region, what culture in the region means, what quality of life in the Greek region means. The aim of my topical question is more to help. Obviously, you are well aware of the subject and the subject of the regional theatre and the issue of the region. The aim and reason for the timely submission of the question is due to obvious injustices, which occur over time in the Greek region. The Greek region has never accepted or discussed a cultural development plan. With the timely question I would like more to excite and move - if you like - your reflexes in a direction of creating a movement, a 'opening' of Greek culture in the region. This is not only an economic issue, it is also a matter of political choice. I think we would be unfair to discuss if we only stayed at the regional theaters. Let us talk at the shortest time about the importance of development, because culture can also be a modern parallel pillar of economic development. We know very well that in many of the theatres, which we mention, there are no basic infrastructures for the development of important events. But I want to talk about something. We are not following what is happening at all in the modern European reality. What do I mean? A performance in France will start from a regional theatre, from the region of the French territory, and will end after a year as a major event, with cooperation between important people, in the centre. I'm talking about the sponsored theatres. In Greece, this is not the case. Our national scenes, the National, State and Lykian even - less Lykian - do not have this policy and the culture of partnerships, so that the Greek region will remain wrong over time. I would remind you that around 2000 the Ministry's code for regional theatres, for the theatre in the region, was about 4 million. Today we are, if I'm not mistaken, at something less than 800,000 euros. This less than 3% that the Greek state has assigned over time to the Greek region I think is unfair and opposes any essential concept of cultural decentralisation. There can be no development with a underdeveloped Greek region. This also applies to other sectors. But since the cultural sector is particularly important, let us stand on it. I will give you a second example: you are going to implement the grant policy and that is quite correct. After 2011, for the first time the Ministry of Culture grants shapes. You could create incentives in shapes of importance, to important creators who will be hosted in collaboration with local government I and 2 degrees in Greek cities with the same money, as well as a series of seminars for three months. In other words, I would like to say that there must be a leverage that will also create jobs, but above all it will lead to what we need. The country is gradually coming out of the memos. We hope that he's progressing in better days and that better times are coming. It would be unfair for a modern government, a left government not to see what's coming. The best days, in my opinion, have to do with the quality of life and the upgrading for the first time post-cultural - because there has never been a structured project - a dialogue around culture, with the "open" of arts and letters in the Greek region, with the encouragement of young creators, as you rightly put it, with the encouragement of great artists to work in the region, which is happening all over the world. That's what we'll expect to see with interest. We believe that it is absolutely possible and is within our objectives and within our capabilities. In conclusion, I say that culture can be not only a pillar of development, but also a very important meeting point. I close by saying that there have been areas that have not been developed since 1967. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr. Mumulides. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u26	You referred to infrastructure in the region. It is a matter of concern to us and to all our visits, which we are trying to find ways with local government to emerge cities - centres of culture other than those that already exist in cities, but also in cities where there is a serious shortage. You referred to hospitality. I have already referred to the residencies, namely the hospitality of schemes of young people or theatres, which can carry their slavery to the region and there show their work in the context of the very substance of cooperation between the region and the centre. Also, already within the criteria is cooperation with the institutions of the free theatre already subsidised, as you mentioned, and with our state tents. Last year there was a very interesting collaboration between the Theatre of Art and the DIFTH of Ioannina. We believe that through our encouragement and incentives, these efforts will continue. It is, of course, a small amount which we are giving under the code of PPC. We want to hope that, on the basis of the incentives, we may be able to give those who respond to an additional bonus in their efforts to upgrade their jobs. In the context of the general government policy that promotes transparency, dignity and fair distribution of resources, the Ministry of Culture has been involved in updating the Register of Cultural Entities of the Region for a year. As you may know, we have received an anarchist financing system, completely opaque, not up-to-date since 2011. For the first time, we are taking steps to assess, cross-check what is happening in the region and who are those who are really worthy of support. We also made a new system, separating the year in two periods, namely at the end of January the submission of the proposals for the winter season and spring. This is how we gather by category from all over the region, geographically and by species all the proposals, and so we can assess the best and most important initiatives, which we will support. Already last year, through evaluation criteria, to the extent that we had advanced the investigation, it shared 1.5 million euros across the region for these purposes. As you know, we are very happy, because we already stand out and support as generously as possible very positive examples, such as the Olympian Film Festival for Children and Youth, the "Lavrynthos" music workshop by Ross Dailey in Crete, the Solomos Museum and eminent Zakynthos in Heptanas and the National Folklore Museum of Thrace in Alexandroupolis. They are examples, for the sake of time. There's a lot more. We therefore want to believe that in this way we are giving the signal of transparency first of all that what has happened before, namely that some traditionally take money from the Ministry without giving an account, without having assessed criteria, simply because they were used to it, or those who happen to come to take the money, and for those who are in the end not having any more money. We put funding and arrogance on a completely new basis, because this also gives added value to activities. So we believe that we are giving a new stigma based on government policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u27	Thank you very much, Minister. MP Mr. Nottis Mitatakis seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad from Friday, February 16th to Sunday, 18th of February 2018. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u28	The House therefore approved the requested permission. We will now discuss the fourth question under number 106/12-2-2018 in the second cycle of the Independent MEP, Nicholas Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: “Give the right to small and medium-sized professionals and generally entrepreneurs in the “second chance” by subjecting them to the regulation of insurance contributions.” We welcome Mr. Nicholas and wish him passively. I see your voice has made.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u29	We'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u30	It'll look like now if the O.R. went well, too. Here, Mr Nicholas, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u31	Thank you very much, Mr President, and your wishes. The truth is, I've made the vocal strings by shouting if Maximus listens if the government hears. Today, for me, it is a pleasant surprise because the voice, the request of a compatriot - who is certainly not just his - has interrupted his professional life in these memorial times and has decided to come back. However, it already had a debt of about EUR 10,000 and had another EUR 6,000 fines to the insurance funds. I am pleased that this timely question has been triggered - it seems - the government's reflexes. First of all, at least with the Minister's presence here, it seems some people are listening. He'll show if they have the will. But, before I ask the Minister, you will allow me, Mr President, to pass on the voice of the luxurious - luxurious ones, and I too, a child of a luxurious family, but also a very large father - on the discussions that are now taking place in our committees and on the initiative of the government. Since it is the material of the Ministry as a whole, and not Mr Petropoulos's responsibilities, I would like the Minister to convey the voice of the laundry - and, moreover, collectively, it is the responsibility - to hear someone in Maximos, because it seems that Mrs Fotou has not understood that two hundred and twenty thousand luxuries have never put forward any arguments, no problems or no difficulty in the card of a reduced luxurious ticket. A year later we come by a law that will be passed in plenary after a few days - it has been passed by the committee - and we say that the laundry clubs will no longer give it. In addition, Mr Minister, we are calling into question the representation of tents through their Supreme Confederation in the institutions which have so far participated in the OPEKA, namely the Economic and Social Committee of Greece, as well as in the SECOND. I think that you are right to say that others must be included - one parental, three-six families - but everyone there represents the problems of this particular category. Now, however, let me ask the question we are here today. The question is whether the government is willing to give the second chance to bio-medicals - small and medium-sized enterprises, professionals, and, in general, entrepreneurs - we would say - by means of a regulation. What does the man who triggered me, too? He says: "Give me the one-off payment of all my debts to relaunch my professional activity, but give me the incentive. Remove me from the fines that have entered for all that time of my objective weakness." I'm sure you know the subject, Minister. After all, the fighting lawyer brought you to all the claims of workers and professionals in another capacity at that time, but you were one of those few who, in all trade union movements and demands, were first from another position. I would like to believe, therefore, that the answer you will give today will be a positive response, but also a message that it is time for the sleeves to relive again, with hope, optimism, but also with the government of the country to try again those in these memorandum frosts found in the cliffs of professional and social life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr. Nicholas. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Nicolopoulos, your interest is reasonable. It is also our interest, and this is reflected in the successive initiatives that we are taking on debt arrangements. With L.4321/2015 we had given the possibility that someone who has to pay a one-off balance after the full, complete deduction of surcharges and interest. Some people took this opportunity, others didn't. I don't know if the person you're referring to has tried to take advantage of this opportunity. It seems that he has not attempted to exploit it. But what you're asking us to do, we did. This does not mean that we should not take into account the real problems of the world. We take it into account and I will explain how. What is running now is the platform of debts to social security. It seems that the world is responding positively, because it now has the ability to pay the debt instalments, as regulated by up to a hundred and twenty instalments for more than 3,000 euros. I would remind you that the instalments are thirty-six for amounts of up to 3 000 euros. It seems that this possibility is actually being exploited, because the amount of contributions that were too high has now been lowered. So a freelance professional - because there it is mainly the scope of the right now - has the power of a part of that amount which does not make it available as a dose, and before it had to pay a very large proportion of the contribution and a single dose, and that was not the case. Now he can handle it. By completing this arrangement procedure - which one has the opportunity to make use of until 31 December of this year, 2018 - we will see what remains of us. But beyond that, we will really see and see that the government's will to strengthen the people of entrepreneurship - small and medium-sized - but also every citizen is real and proves. In the next few years, we will have a legislative initiative so that there can be insurance capacity and information for those who pay the current contributions from 1-1-2017 and from then on, regardless of whether they have old debts and see what we are going to do with those debts. So you'll see that what you're saying we have to think, think and listen. We are listening and thinking about the problems of people, which have accumulated in previous years, because 89% of debtors have been created by December 2014. Most of the contributions due are for that period. That is why we need this old situation to be managed constantly and efficiently. And we'll take other measures like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u34	Thank you very much to the Minister. Please, Mr Nicolopoulos, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u35	Mr President, I am sure what the Minister, Mr Petropoulos, has said today, will give some relief and will trigger even more to meet the difficult times. But I did not get an answer to the question. I imagine that the answer is 'we will see what the next steps of the government will be and for many other categories'. It is true that they appear daily and new aspects. Today, Minister, and yesterday - I am sure you would have seen this - very specific issues have arisen about the regulation already in place, which says that we did not take into account that and the other. I do not have the time, even though I would like to put the voice of those who yesterday's press reported on cases that need to be dealt with here. He's not a god. Not everything can deal with it, like the subject. What does that particular thing say? "But I'll do it all. I don't want you to give me a discount on what I owed, even though we didn't eat together," Pangalos said. That burner and others like him didn't eat them together.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u36	That's a lot of smoke!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u37	Of course, very hot. Listen, Mr President, if you have not read it, 30 billion, it says, since 1991, that there has been a loss of contributions to the NOVARTIS scandal. We are, he says, the only country in the developed Western capitalism our insurance funds never negotiated with pharmaceutical companies. Governments in all the other countries were looking at the price lists of medicines and went to pharmaceutical companies and said: "After our insurance funds they will buy 95% of your medicines, we want a discount." And what did they do, Mr. Kammenos? They did, he says, a 50% discount and 60%. You're saying you didn't see them have responsibilities. If they have responsibilities, Mr. Kammenos! Yesterday Mr Sarakis returned from America. My friends here in New Democracy think they'll find it from General Francoulis. D. Pietro will show Sarakis. He came from America yesterday. And there to watch videos, there to watch recorded conversations about everything you say: "But is there any proof? Did they eat them?’ They are. Not the people. Not him, for whom I'm here today, and I had to be in disobedience. In Greece, however, it says, for the first time, it was negotiated - when? - in 2016. So it could be done. And don't tell us words and stories, and 'we'll see'. I imagine you'd see it, too. I am a member of the Committee of Inquiry and I saw which ministers signed to go and pay the "NOVARTIS" millions to say today: "We can't tell this professional to say to you: we're pulling out the fines, bro, because, while you could be fifteen, twenty years and every month you paid, yes, in the memorial glaciers you didn't make it. And you also put on a padlock. And you come back now and say: I want to start again, Minister. Give me the chance. And pay it all. Cut something off the fines. Don't you want to erase them? Cut something out. Recognize that I did not eat them with Pangalo." Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u38	Thank you very much Mr. Nicholas. Please, Minister, you have three minutes for your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u39	Mr Nicolopoulos, twenty-eight thousand are the debtors - with Mr.4321/15, who I told you that he discharged all of the debts - their obligations to pay. About four thousand four hundred have fully repaid. It is not certain that the reintroduction of this arrangement will find a response, because it was tested and very small. We need to see and invent ways that are actually more effective. I think that what we have now put forward, because it also measures the debtor's ability to pay, will be a method that will bring about better results, a system that will produce better results. But we do not stop thinking about other solutions. It is true, however, that our fellow citizens must make use of this. What is being provided at the moment by the government must make use of it. Because I'm watching the articles, and many of them give false information and create false impressions and depress a world that, instead of inciting it to come, is discouraged and is doubtless looking at the system. That's bad for them. Of the active professionals, we have about three hundred and six thousand cases of debtors. They owe 10.300,000 euros. The rest of the people who owe 2,000,000 euros are not active. The large volume of debts and the large population of debtors is in a category that can be integrated because they are active. Those who are not active cannot be integrated. This system that has been agreed and went forward is for those who can actually work, they have work. It's not for those who don't have a job. We will see another way of approaching these possibilities, after clearing up this large range of cases, which are the many debts. For farmers, this debt is about EUR 2 500 000, and for the free traders, I told you, it is about EUR 10 000 000 - of those who are active. I therefore think it is possible to have in the next phase - and we are monitoring them every week - the performance of the system. The first week went well. It started last Monday. On Friday we had complete procedures for two thousand two hundred. And it was the first week. I am sure that we will go better and complete this process we will see other measures, which we will add. However, with regard to the measures that you have said in your first speech on luxury and family reinforcement, let us look at all the measures we take and how it will pay off. There the government will stand again with great interest and care for the family, as it constantly proves. Our measures will continue and we are already starting, as you have seen, new aid for domestic electricity. We're starting with those who get the relevant welfare allowance and we'll see the other three-tier issues up. Because the Prime Minister said that we will also see measures for this category, which may not benefit as others, following the latest legislative initiatives by the government. We have not stopped and we will not stop taking care of the weakest and most of the people who need to be strengthened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u41	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u42	Mr. Nicolopoulos, what would you like?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u43	Would you mind if I take the floor for a second?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u44	You have the floor, after you hadn't spoken for a month, but soon, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u45	Minister, what the Rules of Procedure allow me to ask yet another question about those cases that you have done well and mentioned today in the newspaper reports, which may not be accurate or discouraged. Get away from me this. I would ask you, however, to take the initiative to answer all of this, and I also ask the Bureau for this, and I thank you for its tolerance. I'll do it. I will bring them today in the sight of questioning all that has been said. Finally, Mr President, what Mr Petropoulos has just said - because I also know your sensitivity, Mr Kammene, from the parliamentary control you have done - yes, it is true that you are taking measures, as you say. But you know what? I do not think we should give the impression with the new regulations that we are not communicating or that we are not in agreement with what we have said and committed ourselves before the elections. Looking at the papers, I would like to make a statement in the Minutes of this House - and that is exactly what the Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras, said - when he met with ASEAN, where he assured them that on these luxurious issues it would be the same to pay back the social resources, which the Samara - Venizelos government deprived of from this great family, from this great category of Greeks. That is why I think, Minister, that you too have an obligation to be annoying to the government, because you may have those images of the workers and professionals that you have represented in your long professional career with passion and courage. Don't let them down on a personal level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr. Nicholas.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u47	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u48	Yes, Minister, because it is an interesting issue, and I think it is much more socially related to a lot of people.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u49	I shall confine myself to saying that the statements made by the government are confirmed by a number of measures that we are taking. These measures did not say that, on the first day of the first meeting, they would end, objectively speaking and with the possibilities that the country has. You must recognise that these measures we took as a government were for the humanitarian crisis. Let's not forget, because, unfortunately, the human species has a defect to forget.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u50	And thankfully.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u51	And thankfully, to get comfort. But the people who were torn up in the trash to find food no longer exist in the city. There's no such thing as that. We have faced the humanitarian crisis. We didn't stop. We're not done. These promises of the Prime Minister are real under constant confirmation. We are now moving on to these measures and will continue to do so. The Prime Minister has announced that he will take further steps to help those cases that have not been helped in the first legalization we have recently made in respect of family allowances. There was another architecture. This issue has been very much analysed. I think we should wait to see the other measures that we take, the supplements. It won't be the only ones. We will continue to take these welfare measures to deal with these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. Petropoulou. Mr. Nicolopoulos, last Wednesday he opened the platform for the hundred and twenty doses for the free traders. There is a great deal of work to be done in the Private Debt Management Special Secretariat. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, seventy-three students and students and four educational sessions since the 1st General School of New Ionia. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We are going to read out the topical and urgent questions which will not be discussed today because of a blockade of Ministers. The second question under number 1084/13-2-2018, first question by the Deputy Minister of Attica of the New Democracy, Athanasios Bourras, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Restoration of the damage and reconstruction of the Old Eleusis - Thebes National Road", will not be discussed due to the absence of the Minister responsible abroad. The sixth question, under number 1004/6-2-2018, on the second question by the Member of Parliament, Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the workers at the "EUROPE" press distribution agency, will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr.Achtsioglou. The seventh question, under number 930/29-1-2018, on the second question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Working of the Union Agricultural Cooperative of Trikala (ESAF)", will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr.Achtsioglou. Similarly, the ninth question under number 917/23-1-2018 of the National Communist Party of Greece, Mr Diamonds Manolakou, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on "Protection and Safety Measures for the Life and Health of Workers in the Shipbuilding Area", will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr.Achtsioglou. The fifth under No. 971/2-2-2018 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Anthony Gregos to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "About the Greek National Minority of Skopje", will not be discussed due to the absence of Mr. Kotzias abroad. Also, the fourth question under number 1082/13-2-2018 is the first question of the Athens MP of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the subject: "Moderation of the conditions of performance and security of the E.F.A.". It will not be discussed by the Member of the European Parliament as a result of an impediment to the insured persons. Likewise, the second question under number 1078/13-2-2018, with the second question of the Attica MEP, Mr. Mavroudi Voridis, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: 'Delays in the process of issuing the new identities', will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Member of Parliament. Also, the third, with number 1076/13-2-2018, is the topical question of the first cycle of the MP Iraklio of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARKKKKOS KEgeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: “True damage to Crete in herbal capital, public - municipal and private infrastructure, etc. - Direct compensation for producers and support for the affected - state of emergency' will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr. Evangelos Apostleos. Finally, the eighth question under number 926/26-1-2018, on the second question of the President of the Thessaloniki Union, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "Do you trust Matthew Nimic as a special Ombudsman of the United Nations on the Skopje question?", will not be discussed due to a workload of the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Ioannis Amanatidis. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate on this point has been concluded. Before entering the legislative agenda, we interrupt the sitting until the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr. Theanos Fotio, arrives.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK A sole debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity: "Involvement of the Organisation for Agricultural Insurance in the Organisation for Pre-Accession and Social Solidarity (OECD) and other provisions". The above draft law was characterised by the Government as an urgent one, and the relevant Standing Committee on Social Affairs, by a majority, accepted its designation as an emergency according to Rule 110 of the Rules of Procedure. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 12 February 2018 to discuss the draft law at one to two meetings. I propose that the debate should be uniform in principle, articles and amendments. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u54	The House therefore agreed. As far as time and procedural matters are concerned, all the speakers, because the system is not working on line yet, should come to the Secretariat to state their names and in order of priority they will be given the floor. The time limits for rapporteurs and special speakers are 12 minutes, and the terminology is six minutes. The speakers in the first place will have the floor for five minutes. Parliamentary representatives will have the floor for twelve minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the educational programme of the 'State of Democracy', organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, sixteen students and students and two teachers from the School of New Smyrna. The House welcomes them. I would like to make some announcements to this House. The Ministers for Maritime Affairs and Islands Policy, Home, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights and Economics tabled a draft law on 14-2-2018: ‘Definition of 2 February 2018 amendment and codification in a single text of the Concession Convention between the Greek Government and the Port Authority of Thessaloniki SA’ and other provisions. The above draft law has been classified by the Government as urgent. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Also, the Ministers for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Economics, Health, Administrative Reconstruction, Environment and Energy and Food, the Deputy Ministers of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity and Economics, and the Deputy Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs have tabled a draft law on 13-2-2018: ‘Institution of the University of Western Attica and other provisions’. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. On 13 February 2018, the President of the Group of Independent Greeks and the MPs of his party tabled a proposal for a law: ‘Amendment of Law 3126/2003 (Official Gazette 66/A/19.3.2003)’. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. We move on to the draft law under discussion and the reason for the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mrs Elisabeth Skoufa, for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law promotes the development, reform and conversion of a piece of the GGAA that has not been incorporated into the ECA into a new single body for the performance of benefits, benefits and services. A small point: we should not be afraid of the phrase'social welfare'. Basically, it means that the state serves one of its main obligations, welfare, care for its weakest and vulnerable members. This is also one of our key ideological differences with the Party of Officerial Opposition, because we regard the state as an obligation to exercise the so-called'social policy', that is to say, to ensure that the social fabric is consistent, to take action for harmonious reintegration into the social group of those of our fellow citizens who have been pushed and living on the margins of society and who, in the years of the memoranda, have been poorer. The draft law is therefore another section. At the usual hearing of bodies at the meeting of the relevant parliamentary committee, we noted that the draft law is extracting the broader social consensus, since the invited bodies have expressed their opinion that the provisions of the draft law are responding to and solving chronic social policy problems. Its basic provisions therefore establish OPEKA, the Single Organisation of Promoting Benefit and Social Solidarity, which will also be responsible for detecting the real needs of the reference population, detecting the consequences and effects of the policies followed, but also for efficient management of the resources available to reduce poverty and social exclusion. As the party's rapporteur at the hearing of the committees, I asked the governor of this part of the OGA, Mr. Pliaki, whether the Greek state was aware of what benefits were granted and given, or whether there was at least some control procedure to control these allowances, whether or not the beneficiaries were entitled to them or not, so that the Greek state could know and thus the Greek citizen who took his money through taxation. His answer was stunning. He said that over the past few years there was no record of the allowances and that they were found as administration in front of a range of provisions to many and various bodies - responsible, unreserved and so on. - while completing that there is no control mechanism at all. Who really prevented them - I am referring to the parties that have been ruling the country for over forty years - from recording and digitising allowances? If these political faces of our country twenty, twenty-five years ago, made a simple move to developed states, for example in Sweden, they would clearly see that everything is digitised, because in the favoured states the citizen knows in greater detail what he is entitled to, how and when exactly will he get it. Here, of course, we preferred to have the citizens of every mayor, a Member of Parliament, a Member of the European Parliament, in order to obtain rights enshrined in his own constitution as a citizen. After all, the creation of a single principle for the reimbursement of benefits of a prosperous nature is a place that the National Confederacy of Persons with Disabilities - our well-known RESEARCH - has had many years, already since the 2000s and earlier. What exactly has this single body not been established for so long? Furthermore, our aim and purpose of the new organisation are soon all the issues - their applications, their processing, the payment of allowances - to be carried out through a system fully electronicised, computerised, to get as many aspects of our lives as citizens, to communicate with the state, to the application procedure up to the electronic disability file and everything else necessary for the normal and regular per month or to the specific dates that have been set for payment of allowances by way of course - from the middle of the various well-beings and ombudsmen of the well-known until now a customer system. This is coming to address this bill, which is the second key pillar of the new digital prosperous state of social solidarity. The first pillar is the national mechanism with the two hundred forty community centers in the municipalities, where citizens with AFM and AMKA are informed of their rights, benefits, benefits and services across Greece. What's the point of the community centers? So far we have had that problem. The crippled, for example, of the Lower Rach grandmother doesn't know she's entitled to benefits. We now have community centres which inform citizens of all benefits, OAS programmes for jobs and all issues relating to social policy, which can and should facilitate their lives. OPEKA manages in particular the child's allowance, the Social Solidarity Income (CDE), the Social Solidarity Benefit in uninsured over-ages, the granting of insurance capacity to uninsured over-ages and funeral expenses in the event of their death. Furthermore, the benefits and services of the Agricultural Housing Account, allowances to disabled persons and other privileged benefits. Overall, the new organisation has nine central addresses and nine regional addresses, the Department of Family Benefits, Child Benefits, Social Solidarity Benefits. In essence, each allowance will also correspond to an address other than the addressees for staff, administrative organisation and, of course, control. In order to be sure that we pay the allowances to the real beneficiaries, for the first time a consolidated OPEKA register is also created, in which all beneficiaries of all kinds of pro-active benefits are registered, as well as their debtors, living and dead. These data from the OPEKA National Register will be cross-checked with other databases, public bodies and agencies, such as the electronicised data from HICP, with the information from the OPE, in order to ensure full transparency in the grant process. Of course, these elements will be protected by the existing legislation on the protection of personal data and tax confidentiality. Mr President, I'm going to need a little more time. If you want, you can remove it from my dentistry. The staff of the new organisation will be made up of three hundred and eighty-three organic posts, of which three hundred sixty are permanent staff and twenty-three are private law of indefinite duration. In other words, as answered at the hearing of the bodies and Mrs Panayota Vassilopoulos, President of the OGA Panhellenic Association of Workers and the Governor of the Agency Mr. Pliaki, these are the existing positions of the OGA, since permanent staff are currently two hundred seventy-five employees, of which twenty-eight are IDAC and six are empty organic posts. Special care shall be taken by means of articles of the staff bill in question. We consider these provisions absolutely necessary, recognizing that existing staff has played a leading role over the years in the field of welfare policy, since these officials have been helping to achieve family allowances, the benefits of uninsured over-ages and the benefits and services of the Agricultural Fund Account. At the same time, however, and since it is indeed the intention of this government to fulfil the necessary positions throughout the entire state mechanism, as well as those required - but not to be permanent staff and not to catch up with the workers in a hostage regime with multiple contracts - there is, in particular, the provision in the bill that all the jobs have the status of private law of indefinite duration, when they become vacant or those who are already vacant until the entry into force of the law, they are gradually changing and becoming permanent staff. Of course, it is true that the workers retain all their rights, their wage scale, their personal differences, and the withdrawal allowance is maintained. The second part of the law under Articles 51-57 deals with other equally important issues relating to the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity. Thus, it is very important that Article 51, according to which the Ministry of Labour has chosen and proposed the immediate operation of up to two new sections in each municipality that has recorded specific deficiencies, ladies and gentlemen of the Officerate, which have been recorded on the basis of the needs arising from the distribution of vouchers across Greece, on the one hand, and on the other, the lack of positions in nursery stations that will be accepted by the children of the rightholders. The evidence, as Theodore Gottopoulos, CEO of the EBRD, has been available to any Member of the European Parliament now, as the EBRD is the Authority that has been managing the programmes since 2010. The total amount of funding for the creation - I repeat - of two new sections of nursery facilities in each municipality which is in deficit, which is foreseen and to be provided by the State budget for 2018, is EUR 15 000 000, which the government has secured from saving public sector expenditure. This amount will cover the renovation, reform and adaptation work to legal conditions in existing buildings of privately owned, licensed or leased, as well as the supply of the necessary equipment. To speak with numbers, it is intended to allow for the immediate operation of new care departments from the next school period, so 2018-2019. Thus, this year's goal is to build four hundred new sections across the territory that will cover some ten thousand new positions of children, infants and infants. In 2019, there is provision for another thousand eight hundred new sections, with the ultimate aim that the total places will reach a hundred sixty-five thousand - infants and infants - since 2019 that will finally be able to go to nurseries. So there will be places for the unemployed mother, the poor mother, the working mother. This is for us an important part of social policy and not the policy pursued in the New Democracy, which has just given us seventy-five thousand positions. Article 52 shall be extended until 30 June 2018 the time limit for the registration of social-care services providers in the national register. There are organizations, institutions and organizations providing social services throughout Greece. For the first time by law of our own government, the SYRIZA - ANEL - Obstacles, the National Register was created, where those bodies that provide very sensitive services, social services, should be recorded. As a result, the deadline was expired in August 2017, the Government and the Ministry were given the opportunity to extend the deadline for the submission of applications. In my opinion, and if I understand the bill correctly, this provision for an extension of the registration deadline is fully and irresponsibly linked to Article 56 for which we have heard very severe criticism from the Qualified Opposition at the meeting of the committees, because, listen, this government says it is subsidising richly with money from the state-Corban NGOs and other organisations involved in the provision of social services. Yes, sir. I have some questions. Firstly, what has happened all the previous years until 2015? Secondly, if a process of recording which bodies, what they do, what institutions, how many people have inside, people who use services, who are workers, under which regime they operate and under what laws. Was there something like that? For the first time our own government has been forced, if you like, to do so to shed light on another part in which, as usual, as in all other areas of public policy, the abundance of chaos. And why was there this mess? Just because they were giving money from the state koruna, from the Greek taxpayers, to bodies and sectors without any control procedure at all. I also believe that we all agree with Article 53, which takes care to pay compensation for work that they have provided in exceptional hours to cover exceptional or seasonal needs, work, and so to all legal entities governed by public law, which are supervised by the Ministry of Labour, etc. Would you like us, ladies and gentlemen, to leave these workers unpaid? This article takes care and says that since the institutions had the money, they can by means of legal procedures pay workers who work at the Social Welfare Centres. They're not appointed by SYRIZA, they're not our party kids. These bodies, the Social Protection and Welfare Centres, are there, I don't know how many years.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u56	My dear colleague, let me inform you that you have covered the time of your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u57	Two minutes, Mr President. Thank you for your tolerance. With Article 54, it is also exempted for another year, almost until the end of 2018, the Sikarianidio Foundation. It is exempted from the obligation to produce proof of tax and insurance information, precisely in order to facilitate it, since the administration has undertaken to assemble the uncomfortables it has found in this institution, to be able to operate and serve the children who use the services of the institution. Finally, with Article 55 for the first time in Greece, the government also regulates the issue of the certification of the Roma language, romance. So, what problem does this provision come up with? That, until now, they were appointed to various jobs or have acquired the post normally by means of notices or took on the very important role of the Roma Ombudsman, who has to solve problems, serve them in the new Community centres.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u58	Dear colleague, please finish. You have also covered the time of your dentistry. Please close. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u59	For these people, then, there were false statements that they knew the Roma language. Should the AACC not, by means of a procedure, of a committee, certify that I, you, know the Roma language? And that's coming to take care of it. In short - and I thank you once again for the tolerance - this bill is coming to complete. It is an even very important part of the puzzle, which is called, "Ends of fair, transparent, equitable and effective social policy". Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u60	Thank you very much. I would ask the rapporteur from New Democracy, Mr. Panagiotis Mitarakis, to take the floor for twelve minutes, which is the protagonist. Along with the denology, which is six minutes, it can have up to eighteen minutes. Then you don't have any dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr President. I've got 12 minutes. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the urgent and urgent bills have become normal for the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. And as I have said in committee, your lack of planning is not an urgent need for Parliament. Let's organize your services better and your work. Today's bill, ladies and gentlemen, follows all the SYRIZA recipe: sluggishness, ideological strangles, inefficiency, new posts of officials, some legalisation of expenditure and an extension of deadlines. Indeed, we have heard many of these two days about how much the SYRIZA Government is interested in and strengthening social policy and how effective this is. You mentioned some numbers in committee. I raised the budget. In the budget I read that the pre-school benefits in 2014 were EUR 2.2 billion and in 2018 is EUR 1.3 billion, almost half of which we have voted to reduce the CSR by 238 million, reduce other allowances by 12 million, abolish multi-text allowances, reduce the heating allowance, abolish the tax exemptions for medical expenses. And you understand that this is not about the economically powerful, but about the economically weaker. But to talk about poverty. For days, SYRIZA - ANEL the risk of poverty of workers - look out! - increased to 14.1% from 13.1% in 2013. You bankrupt those who work, those who support the economy and social policy. Let us see more generally the risk of poverty in vulnerable groups: the risk of poverty, following social transfers, that is, your allowances and all your prosperous policy, has been reduced by 0.9% over the last two years. In the period 2012-2014, the same index was reduced by 1%. We, the analgestors. And these are the latest official data available from ELSTAT. You told us, Minister, that you are constantly giving money, that you support the weakest. It seems, however, that the social transfers you make do not significantly reduce the risk of poverty. In other words, your social policy has zero effectiveness. The Minister of State has been ironed out in committee when I said that in the New Democracy we believe the best way to defeat poverty is to create jobs. So you want to talk about unemployment? Indeed, when the global financial crisis began in 2008, unemployment in Greece began to increase and reached the maximum point a few months after the government took over the government of Samara. Since then, since 2013, with the economic policy that we followed, without additional measures, we have seen results and managed in eighteen months - when we handed over governance in January 2015 - to reduce unemployment by 2.2%. Now, indeed, we are seeing a further decline in unemployment. However, according to the figures in the 'ERGANI', you achieve this with part-time jobs - they are not quality jobs - and that is why the risk of poverty has increased between workers by one percentage point. Needless to say, what would have happened in the country if we had not seen the Tsipras - Baroufakis experiment, which, according to the European Commission's figures, ultimately cost us two hundred and twenty thousand jobs. I want to talk about this: finally, what new jobs have you been able to bring in this country? Only six-monthly, eight-monthly contracts, positions in public bodies, public works of mutual benefit, for short periods, entangled people who give them expectations of appointments and settlements. What major investment, Minister, has the SYRIZA Government brought this three-year period? What kind of segregation did you do and move on? However, the privatizations that took place in the previous period have still not begun to produce jobs. However, I will not deny you anything: that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government indeed places the emphasis on benefits policy - I recognize that! - because by the law of Katrugalu, you've actually turned them into allowances. You're turning wages into allowances. We're watching the evidence from the FBI. The average salary in May 2016 was EUR 949. In May 2017 it fell to 927 euros. In December 2017, 58% of new recruitments were in part-time and rotating jobs. Since I referred to pensions - our parliamentary representative will also say so - you have created an unjust, ineffective and counterproductive system. And they've already started coming to pensioners' notes with the personal difference, the one you voted on and you'll be abolished on January 1, 2019, as you will reduce the tax free for the financially weaker! Ladies and gentlemen, three years now the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has been holding the country back. It redistributes poverty and accuses citizens of charity. When we started the biggest reform of the social state, the minimum guaranteed income, I remind you that "AGEI" called it "guaranteed poverty" for all and Mrs Fotou in 2015 said it is a "poverty trap". Eventually, you succeeded and found a better name. You call it different, and now you're celebrating. The bill, ladies and gentlemen, actually puts an end to the OGA. You put your signature in order to stop even the name of the organization that supported the farm since 1961, when our national ruler, Constantine Karamanlis, founded it, of the organization that has been supporting farmers for over five years, their families and national production. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] By Law 4387/2016, law SYRIZA - ANEL, you removed the insurance powers from both OGA and NAT. And in OGA, only the pre-school allowances of farmers were left, although Mr. Tsipras himself when he saw the farmers, promised them the maintenance of the OGA, which we, as a New Democracy, supported over time, recognising the special features and needs of the country's agricultural population, the Greeks who work hard. You are supposed to be bringing about a major reform. But, after all, what do we see in this bill? We see a simple transfer of existing allowances to a new organisation in the OPEKA. You're not even transferring it all from all the ministries. You are not building a new coherent structure, but you are following the existing organisational framework. You do not streamline allowances, you do not change - as you yourself said in committee - anything in the criteria, in the procedure or in the method of payment. So the more fragmented you say it was social and prosperous policy to date, and then the bill will continue to be so. Let me refer to a few articles. Article 5 provides that the commander and the deputy commander will be selected from the multi-advertised register of executives. But that doesn't exist. So you come and put with Article 8 a transitional period, undetermined, until you can prepare this register. Is this a confession that the registry is not working or trying to create a pre-service to your own executives so that when this registry is created, your own members, who are party members, who have placed themselves, have priority over occupying posts for a period of many years after? There is also provision for an electronic interconnection of services and an information system for the registration of benefits and benefits. That's yes, that's good. But you did not tell us when it would be implemented. Because we heard the chief OGA commander tell us that we are progressing slowly and soon, without objectives, the system will be ready. We've seen what has happened to the FBI and the HICP for the insurance register, which still has mistakes, and the alalum that is even afflicting the world today. So we are rightly pessimistic about when you can operate this information system. Here in EKA as soon as yesterday you have managed and made a circular to clear the insurance contributions of free professionals, who in 2018 are still paying on the basis of the income of 2015, while on the basis of the data of the tax mechanisms, the income of free professionals has been significantly reduced. This is a clear smuggling. That is why, Minister, I answer you: we do not believe that you have prepared the OPEKA, we do not believe that you can organise it and we do not believe that you can make a substantial contribution to the restructuring of the state of precarious state. The biggest reform was the minimum guaranteed income and this still does not fully work. To conclude, Part I, I shall refer to Article 45, which provides for the repayment of unpaid benefits by citizens in the OPEKA. We do not disagree at the outset, but on two conditions: first, to enter a plaque, to concern up to a level of unpaid payments and to exclude cases of fraud, when one has been convicted that by false documents he was receiving payments from the former OGA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u62	That's it anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u63	It's not in the bill in Article 45. Article 45 says'regardless of any reason'. I imagine the Minister will make us a legalist. I will end within time with Article 56 and refer to the following articles in Part II in my dentistry. We consider Article 56 to be a potential core of corruption. For the first time, you have introduced this provision, Minister, in 2016 and you gave the Minister of Labour - without procedures - the right to give - without plunder - grants to non-governmental organisations, which are not specifically controlled by the State, nor how they are recruiting, or how they are doing contracts, nor how they are buying services. So you create a new system, a mechanism where regular budget money will go to NGOs that you choose, without any procedure, which can be spent without any control. You come to tell us, of course, that today, under Article 56, you are laying down certain rules. Wrong! You are applying the amendment tabled by the Samara Government in 2013, which had general effect for NGOs. Specifically, this amendment says that if you have not complied with it since 2016, it is unbelievable during the service. The law says that in particular. So you come and repeat what is already happening. I have asked you a question and a request for Documents to tell us where 7 million euros were granted last year, because you increased these benefits to NGOs by 15%, according to your figures, since you voted on this amendment in 2016. The New Democracy is voting against the bill and I shall refer to some other articles in my denology. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u64	Mr President, some evidence must be provided to restore the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u65	I imagine that you can do that in your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u66	When you take the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u67	When I speak, I won't waste my time because the New Democracy is lying.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u68	If the Minister talks now, we'll get into second grades.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u69	You should give me some time, Mr President, to answer the number.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u70	Mr Constantopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u71	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the concept of'social solidarity' highlights respect for the beneficiaries of social care. Social welfare is largely interconnected with the dependency of weaknesses on state services. "Social solidarity" means not imposing your dream on others, but letting others do their own dream. Ladies and gentlemen, there was no reason why the debate on this bill should be regarded as urgent. The choice is downgrading the quality of the dialogue and effective fermentation in the committee, where important comments and proposals have been made by the actors and representatives of the parties. I should like to say that the Minister, in fact, has given answers and clarifications in a positive direction. As regards the general philosophy of the bill, ladies and gentlemen, it is good that all benefits are recorded and collected in one body. It is good that we are going to the era of the electronic interconnection of the bases of the new body, the OPECA, with the ones of the AIA and the HICP. It is good that the infrastructure is created to check the declared data of those applicants for benefits from the OPECA, because the rational payment of the allowances strengthens transparency and saves public money. With regard to the development of the Agricultural Insurance Agency, I also mentioned to the Committee, Minister, and I would like to convey it here, as well: when the OGA was founded in 1961, it was internationally described as a pioneering organisation. Why? Because then half the country's population was involved in agricultural and livestock farming and was a vulnerable economic and social group. The rural population was on the sidelines. And what did OGA do? He came and overturned it, because there was the need to integrate the rural population into the economic life of the country. Today the predominant need is that of integrating all those who live in extreme poverty. According to a recent survey of "internationalism" the limits of extreme poverty in Greece range from 182 euros per month for a single household in semi- or rural areas, up to 905 euros per month for a couple of two children living in Athens, pays rent or housing loan. So the question, Minister, is how many have a monthly income below this limit. The rate of extreme poverty in Greece varies for 2015, with the most recent figures, to 15%. In 2011 this figure was 8.9%, while in 2009 it did not exceed 2.2%. Ladies and gentlemen, if in 1961, which was founded by the OGA - 16 years after the end of World War II - the government then managed to create a pioneering international institution, today, which is not post-war, why cannot we do something similar to modern vulnerable social groups? Here, then, we need an integrated social policy, not a management policy, which is the government's project, as it turns out. I am telling you this with the weight of the historical reforms made by the PASOK governments in the field of social policy, because PASOK was what the social state raised. As social policy bodies, the LAGs were able to pursue a social policy at PASOK. Establishment and operation of children, infants, nurseries and nurseries, recreation and recreational centres for the elderly, nurseries, orphanages, support and rehabilitation centres for disabled people, the innovative KAPIs under the responsibility of the municipalities and communities have the stamp of the democratic party. So is the 'Help at Home' programme launched in 1998. Creative employment centres as well. They may have existed since the 1980s, but they have expanded throughout the country at that time. At the same time, we also had housing plans, the social pay institution, the possibility of holidays for low-income families, the self-evident pension for the farmer, the free health care for all farmers, the family and luxurious benefits of Law 2459/1997. However, many other social benefits then seemed unrealistic at that time. All of this is the content of a progressive social policy centred on human beings. But what is more worth thinking is what the country was then, when we were implementing these reforms. For we must leave the easy justification for the restrictions set by the Memorandums and the fiscal situation of the country. So what does he need? It needs political will, structured ideology and concrete targeting. These are missing from the current government. And we were in a very difficult position in the negotiations with the troika in 2013 for the OGA, but we kept him standing. We in the first difficult years of the crisis had to deal with - but we did - the following: The implementation of the minimum guaranteed income, which was handled by your predecessor, Minister Vassilis Kegeroglou. Distribution of the social dividend totalling EUR 450 million to 650,000 poor families. Continuing the homeless programs, humanitarian aid for the most deprived, establishing family allowances to 700,000 families from the first child. Modernising and paying disability benefits to ten categories of beneficiaries without income criteria but ensuring the certification of their disability. The incorporation of 700,000 families and on the social domestic invoice, i.e. two to three million Greek citizens have electricity in their homes with a 45% discount. We also achieved 60% subsidy for connecting to the natural gas network for 30,000 poor families in Athens, Thessaloniki and Thessaly, with the crossing, of course, beneficiaries of privileged rights to avoid abuse. We did not, Minister, however, have the political time to make a major social reform that responds to modern problems in a progressive manner and a fine one. In the present bill, therefore, it is positive that all OGA personnel are transferred to OPEKA, maintaining the same organic position, category, industry, specialty, degree, wage step, and all their employment rights in general. For the five payroll lawyers you mention and provide, with remuneration of EUR 2,400, we propose, Minister, that we also tell the Commission yesterday - the fee should be flat-rate. In order to help NGOs, the criteria need to be cleared up. For the card to move the trousers, as provided for in Article 4(1), we propose to be removed. The representative of the ASEAN has asked for it, and it is absolutely fair, I would say. There's already a card to move the trousers. In such difficult times, Minister, we do not need to charge them with a new fee for issuing a new card. Madam Minister, the issue of polytexts and triteces is very serious and we need to address ourselves in particular. Already demographic, because of the birth rate, it's a huge problem and a night bomb, I'd say, into the back of the insurance company. That is why we need support from the multitude family and from the third parties. We must accept their demands, so that it can actually be seen that what we say, we mean it and what we mean, we do it. Therefore, support for laundry, because we really support our Greece, we support our country's tomorrow. The Community Centres are a new structure and have been institutionalised by L.4368/2016. They are the core of expanded services with a personalised holistic approach. In cooperation with the Social Services Directorate, each LAG provides services to deal with the humanitarian crisis. Their operation in the two forty municipalities of the country must be effective. And I think it is. However, their infrastructures need to be strengthened in staff and in training to connect them to the OPECA. Madam Minister, I mentioned to you yesterday in the committee for the remaining municipalities, which are eighty-five. For them, it should be taken into account that they should themselves send an accredited and appointed official to be able to operate, of course, by giving them the digital and information platform. The Minister told us in committee that the relationship between community centres and OPEKA is homogeneous. I will agree with you, and that is how it should be, but this must somehow be captured. We are therefore proposing and will table, Madam Minister, an amendment to this effect. In other words, community centres should join the relevant social service of each municipality and be evident - not that they are not part of the social services - you said yesterday that they are - and are staffed with the relevant staff, with a view to the uniform provision of social services and social care. Here we want your commitment to be cleared. Minister, until the remaining municipalities acquire the two employees, the accredited and the appointed, I would say to any municipality that there is no community centre, that the JEP can act as an ancillary administrative support structure. Cooperation between community centres and JEPs can only result in positive results. For the establishment of nurseries in each municipality: It is good that, where there are shortcomings, the establishment of up to two new departments will be financed so that no child will stay outside the stations. Camps PICA: Setting is positive. Now your concern must be not to lose this year's period of operation. For the process of demonstrating the knowledge of the Roma language, the ombudsmen, as we said: Positive, therefore, it will be for the state to try to integrate Roma into society as a whole. We should really see the Roma as our peers and equal interlocutors, as children of this society that is now reshaped from the beginning, as long as the state's effort is of course made to integrate them into normality. For demographic policy, Minister, it needs a more integrated approach, because - as I have said before - it is a crucial social issue. In view of the fact that there has been a lot of discussion about the resources of the welfare benefits and whether they will affect the CFPs of self-government, I think that here it should be explicitly clarified in the bill and it is useful to hear it and to clarify that from 1-12019 and from now on the resources of the privileges provided by the OPECA, in general, will come from the state budget. In other words, we must not expect programmes and the NSRF, especially the Ministry of Labour's budget, while at the same time the CFP will remain to be used by local government. That is why we have tabled this amendment. In conclusion, I would like to say the following. We do not agree with the strategy of the government, in fact in the way of urgency, which each bill brings and urgently asks for its vote, without, of course, attaching due importance to dialogue and consultation on any matter relating to the relevant bodies. We also do not agree politically with this logic of centralisation. We support any initiative to decentralise and support local government. Ladies and gentlemen, for us, the Democratic Integration, the fight against social exclusion and equal participation of citizens in social life are at the heart of our thinking and is not a reason, but an act. It is the answer to social exclusion and respect for vulnerable groups. We therefore support policies centred on human resources, which is why we insist on decent living allowances and not welfare poverty benefits. In the urgency procedure, we have not been able to see all the details of the arrangements in the direction that we have already pointed out. We are opposed to the mere continuation of pre-school benefits, without an integrated social policy plan to support vulnerable groups. We await your position, Minister, on the issues that we have raised and on the amendment that we expect to be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, too. Mr. Shahinides has the floor since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr President. Before I refer to this draft law, I would like to express on behalf of the Golden Dawn the condolences to the family and the familiars of the late Manolakos, a fighter of nationalism. I now come to the present draft law. This Legislation provides for at first sight the innocent rename and evolution of the Agricultural Insurance Organisation to a Promoting Benefits and Social Solidarity Agency as a Single Policy Enforcement Body developed under the National Social Solidarity System of L.4387/2016. It is firstly obvious that from your idealism, which has been transformed by Marxist to neoliberal, in common the two sides of the same currency, it disturbs you any name - definition that contains the term "agricultural", while it does not bother you that the Skopjes have our history, our name and our soul. That's what you were, and that's what you're gonna stay. It is also clear that this bill is a Memorandumary obligation, as it forms part of a series of reorganisations, restructuring and social legislation. As the explanatory statement states, for the first time, the development of a uniform, modern and coherent administrative system for detecting the real needs of the reference population for reducing poverty and social exclusion is intended. The reasons for this legislative initiative include, inter alia, the lack of a consolidated and up-to-date register of beneficiaries of all kinds of social benefits and services, insufficient information for the reference population, the absence of the geo-information system, the complexity and the overlapping of the relevant programmes. OPEKA will continue to exercise the OGA's existing non-insurance powers with regard to family allowances, uninsured over-ages and rural-age accounts, but other responsibilities relating to the award of all privileges, economic aid and social services to vulnerable groups of the reference population will be added. So OPEKA will be the Catholic successor of the OGA. He will be a legal person under public law and will be under the supervision of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity. For the purpose of fulfilling the objectives, a pro-active and social service account shall consist of an economic and accounting self-sufficient account. The first thing you can notice is that the attempted economic and social support of vulnerable groups in the population, such as uninsured people, disabled people and households with inadequate income and wealth, is no longer a matter for Greek citizens who are basically entitled to aid of all kinds, but more and more briefly, illegal immigrants living illegally in our country, since the reference population has been radically altered to the detriment of Greek citizens for the past decades, of course and your own, which is also demonstrated by official demographic data. Impress also: the first part of the draft law provides for the obligation to online cross-check by the competent services of the OPEKA of the reported information of the applicants of any provision provided by that body with the available electronic databases of the Independent Public Revenue Authority, as well as information systems of other bodies. This will obviously not concern the hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants who have entered our country illegally because they are not officially available for cross-border traffic. So they will normally receive the benefits, while Greek citizens will be in hostage status and can be excluded from benefits, since there is plenty of official electronic data for them. In the first part of the draft law, OPEKA staff issues and its responsibilities are regulated. The whole of the OGA staff will now be an OPEKA staff and some private positions are converted into permanent organic posts. There are also five legal posts of lawyers with an unpaid mandate for legal support for the work of the OPEKA services. The administrative organisation of the new organisation is planned to participate in the Management Board and representatives of vulnerable social groups. In our opinion, this participation should not be confined to two seats, but it should be more extensive and perhaps even the institution of veto - veto - on issues which concern them - should be examined in order to ensure what is stated in the explanatory statement on administrative efficiency and social control of the decisions and actions of this institution. A memorandum was tabled, Madam Minister, by the Association of Greek Polytectes - it is the former confederation of disabled people in Greece - where they state that they are represented on the board with a regular and an alternate member. On the other hand, in the case of 1st, instead of a representative and a substitute from the Hellenic Supreme Confederation, ASE - which represents over two hundred and twenty thousand families, among them three parents, single parents, and three parents with one parent disabled from any reason and who is a member of the Economic and Social Committee of Greece and OFCON - it is inadmissible that the Minister of Labour will choose the representative from four organisations, namely the ASEAN, the Panhellenic Federation of Tritech Greeks, the Federation of Multiple Families with three children and the Panhellenic Society of Members of the Mono-families. Here in their memorandum, their proposal is that, because the issues of laundry cannot be raised and promoted by others who certainly do not know them, and the other federations include different categories of families and not similar ones, as I told you in committee with the ASEAN, so every category of families with its own independent representative should be represented. It is not possible to ignore that the Hellenic Top Confederacy is the oldest family organization in Greece since 1931. He is the only member from Greece of the respective European federations. Also, in the same memorandum, which has a protocol number 137, I would point out, in respect of Article 4 and paragraph 1, which states the movement card, this should be deleted, since both the multitude and their children, who have been entitled to a reduced ticket since 1931, established by the APRC, a relevant card demonstrating their status as multiple parents and children of luxury. So we don't need an additional card, they tell us. It should be noted that on the basis of the existing card, with which they have been equipped for all years now, they made use of the reduced cost cost. In order to recover unduly paid financial aid or pensions, this draft law provides that any advance payment, benefit, financial aid or pension paid wrongly by the OPCF shall be charged to the recipients irrespective of their fault and shall be reimbursed unintentionally or offset by all the benefits granted. Here we would like you to tell us, Minister, what will happen to illegal immigrants? How are you going to collect these, really? Is this also part of an informal racism against the Greeks? It is also foreseen that, in the event of the death of an uninsured subcontractor under Law 1296/82, the cost of the funeral is paid by the OPEK to the head of the funeral, upon application, up to EUR 800. That is a measure that is also valid today. At least, as far as we understand it, you are letting the economically weaker citizens survive with some dignity. For the purposes of the uninterrupted provision or recovery of financial aid a consolidated OPEKA register will be established, the EMO, which will register the beneficiaries of all kinds of privileged benefits and financial assistance of the organisation, as well as the living and deceased debtors. The data, data and information necessary for the maintenance of the EMO shall be obtained by direct and real-time interconnection of the IPCC, in particular from the ADA databases, the archives of e-government, as well as from any other digital bases and registers of general government maintaining data and data relating to the legitimate allocation of the PRB's pro-active benefits. The second part of the bill provides for the implementation of a funding programme for the establishment of up to two new sections of infant and child care in each municipality. Here, Minister, I had drawn your attention to the committees to make a legislative improvement and add 'in the municipal districts'. I also told you in committee that because of the 'Kalikaratis' enlargement which has become and the integration of municipalities, this measure, from one to two infancy buildings in each municipality, is very little and does not meet the needs. In Part II, therefore, as regards the expenditure I mentioned before for nurseries, the financing of this programme will be covered by appropriations from the regular budget of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, for the renovation, reform and adaptation of existing buildings, as well as the necessary equipment for their operation. Here you also call for demographic indicators, which are obviously against the Greeks and in favour of illegal immigrants and foreigners. We would very much like to see what will ultimately be the percentages of jobs that will be taken up by foreign and illegal immigrants in the sections under founding, in relation to the general population. It is also extended until 30-6-2018, from 26-8-2017, the deadline for registering social care services providers at the National Register of Private Social Care Entities, due to a large number of requests for registration of institutions, with a thousand five hundred applications that have been pending, in order not to withdraw their licenses. Here we would like to know exactly what and the work of all of these thousands of non-profit-making bodies to make a statement about the need for this regulation. It is your extension of last year's law, which concerns, of course, bodies that provide support and social work to Greek citizens, but unfortunately also branches of international non-governmental organisations. Here too, 'the meaning'. In subsequent articles of Part II of the Bill, they are considered legal and may be cleared by the financial services of the relevant bodies, the costs for additional pay for work, exceptional days and night hours of staff of the Social Welfare Centre, the Education and Rehabilitation Centre, the National Foundation for the Deaf, the National Centre for Social Solidarity, the Centre for the Child Care of Papafoios Thessaloniki and the Therapy of Yearly Paths of Evritania and their Annexes for the years 2016 and 2017. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It is also relieved to continue its proper operation for one year the ‘Sikiaridian Foundation of Unappropriated Children’ and is exempted from the obligation to produce proof of tax information. All types of netting against the institution shall not be allowed for established financial claims of the Greek public and insurance institutions against it and any administrative or enforcement acts shall be suspended. Here, although we are positive in these two articles, instead of always coming back to bailing economic holes which create huge problems for these institutions, you should finally give a definitive solution for their permanent and uninterrupted funding, since they are doing important social work. In another article a procedure is established to demonstrate the knowledge of the language and the local dialect Romani, for ombudsmen between the Roma community and public services. In other words, Roma, who are supposed to be Greek nationals, instead of learning the Greek language in order to be able to communicate with the public without problems, are able to do so with ombudsmen and the Greek citizen is obliged to pay for it through taxation. This is where a question arises, Minister, as to how much you emphasise the issues of the Roma. The same institution that came the day before yesterday defined itself as a ‘Gypsy’. But it makes us the impression of this. How is it, since there is a large percentage of illiterates, but all these people have diplomas? And since it is compulsory to participate in Greek education, it is their choice that they do not participate. So why should the Greek taxpayer be charged with this ombudsman? Finally, there are arrangements concerning the grant scheme of legal persons under private non-profit law providing social care services, as well as for the implementation of the annual campsite programme. It is clear here that the portion of the lion's share of these funds will result in the service of illegal immigrants. We do not understand how it will improve the quality of the annual camps' services and the transfer of their organisation and operation to the LAGs or other legal persons. In addition, it is not sufficiently specified what the legislature means by ‘the capacity to organise and operate camps for vulnerable population categories’. Are you going to organize camps for the children of illegal immigrants? To sum up, bring a bill that, as you say, simply renames and transforms the OGA into OPEKA. Let us remind you, however, that the OGA was founded in 1961 in order to protect a dynamic and vulnerable social and professional group, the Greek farmers, and later it also evolved into a main-security institution, while at the same time it was also subjected to important prosperous powers relating to other groups of the population, such as uninsured over-ages and especially family allowances. It is also managed by the Agricultural Housing Account, which implements social, health tourism programmes, excursion program, theatrical ticketing programs, free-of-book books and training seminars for young farmers. So you have so much mutated yourself with the left rebels of calamity, supposedly protectors of farmers and workers, to neoliberal submissives of capitalist capital, that, together with the total and sweeping destruction of the agricultural sector through the memoranda of excessive and unfair taxation, you are bringing bills to the vote which effectively abolish bodies that supported so many decades of farmers rather than just. Obviously, this bill also forms part of the general strategy of salamation and ultimately a gradual and definitive abolition of social conquests of the Greek people. You know very well that many have their ultimate roots in the national governor Ioannis Metaxas. This bill, with the exception of minimum positive or even neutral arrangements to fall ash in the eyes of the Greeks, promotes rapidly the conversion of the Greek people from sovereign to demand of all kinds, while in illegal immigrants there will be unforeseen allowances and support of all kinds in abundance. You are therefore combining your Marxist ideals with the memorial requirements of loan sharks against Greeks and illegal immigrants, so that more and more of the latter are caught in Greece, so that they do not disperse to the most economically powerful countries in the European Union. This way you once again prove your devastating role in the degradation of the Greek nation. And he will always be to us everywhere toward you. Golden Dawn is voting against this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u74	Mr. Synthrakis has the floor from the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the present draft law, in the first part, in Articles 1 to 50, the Government with a view to rationalising and wrapping up millennial expressions such as dignity, equality, rightful approach - expressions which the Government likes to say - attempts to draw up and implement a Memorandum commitment or rather a derivative of Memorandum commitments to the European Union, the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. The system of awarding the benefits through a single OPEKA body, as the OGA will now call itself, with the subsequent changes in its organisational agenda, the introduction of electronic registers, as well as the use of computers for the provision of the Agency's services, seemingly if you look at them out of the role that this new body will play, can indeed be considered as innovative, reasonable and helpful. But what is the ultimate goal? The government is not talking about the fact that, behind the wrapping up of the modernization of the body which will deliver the probative benefits, it hides the anti-grassroots content of its policy, which is the savage cut in the benefits both in terms of their amount and in terms of the number allocated to them. The government's attempt to convince the institutions to fight to protect the weakest, when in the third memorandum the signature - as in the other parts of the New Democracy, the PASOK, the River - has been widened to cut the welfare budget by 0.5% of GDP. We're not playing the priest! Taking GDP as a basis, when the third memorandum was signed, cuts amount to EUR 900 million per year. But wasn't the CSCE abolished? Didn't the pensions fall? Wasn't the funding shrinked to the EEA? Is that just the allowance? And you're saying you've even raised it? From 5 billion, financed by the founding of EOPY, the amount it gives for uninsured ones came to be just 100 million euros. Isn't that a cut? For the treatments of children in special treatment? From 110 million to 60 million, treatments were reduced. You owe up to 15 months to the parents, so that they have stopped their children’s treatments. At best, if you do not cut allowances, you will cut the surroundings, which are a vital need for vulnerable groups, to make you the commitment of the cuts by 0.5% per annum to the benefits. The heavy disabled in our country are five hundred thousand. Do you know how many people they get? Less than a hundred fifty thousand. The remaining three hundred and fifty thousand, how do they live? Tell us how they'll live! Invalidity pensions are reduced. You're changing charges to the disabled or reducing the rate of disability. He who cannot take his feet and is considered paraplegic, take him to the heavy disability, declassify him from a paraplegic, thus reducing the allowance from 700 euros to 300 euros. And to get these 300 euros, you won't be entitled to pension. If he also took the movement allowance, he loses that too. He's missing 180 more. Is this a rightful approach, Minister? The public rehab centers where are they? It is inexistent and where they are underfunded, it is a disgraceful picture of them, the means they have are little, the despair of their staff. On the contrary, the private rehabilitation centres are mingling, and you are indeed grateful for this policy that you are implementing. You told us you were interested in getting the disabled into the labour market. Do you have work and insurance rights here, elastic working relationships break bones, the breach of working hours, the circumvention of daily working hours is a norm, collective agreements do not exist, reception and childbirth benefits cut, the employers blackmail women, or else they are fired, and you are speaking to us with a great deal of hypocritical interest in the job security of the disabled? The vast majority, as I told you, is not getting an allowance. Even the legislation that provides that 10% of the employees hired by a company to be disabled have never been implemented, but never! In words, of course, I am building up intangible and intrinsic. Even the capitalism of the last ten, fifteen years ago, provided more than you today in conditions of barbarity of capitalism, which you are calling on to manage at a time of protracted crisis by giving him the hand of help when he is breathing the legs. Do you dare tell the JRC that he is not interested in the occupational care of the disabled? It is hypocrisy when you know that in the former Soviet Union, in Bulgaria, in other socialist countries they had won them many decades ago. Yes, in those countries where when you were overthrown, you celebrated. They had universally ensured early diagnosis, education for all, for all children, work for all with developed ergonomic services. This is a miner in Elefsina and with both thumbs cut off you have him unretired. Most examples: Another with both his feet cut under his knees and is not entitled, he says, the allowance unless he cut them over his knees. Do you have anything to say about them? With this draft law you may not cut the benefits, but you are shaping the tools, specifications, such as CEPDs, or refer many of your designs, benefits and services to the new body that you will offer, to ministerial decisions to draw up the Benefits and Services Regulation, which will determine the type of benefits granted, the terms and criteria for eligibility and inclusion of stakeholders in the relevant programmes, the amount and how to calculate the amount. A basic lever, ladies and gentlemen, for these cuts, is undoubtedly the disability certification centres, which slaughter the disabled by clearly reducing the rates of disability below the limit laid down for granting even these poor benefits. So the cuts have already begun, and indeed the method that refers to a modern one. Under Article 215 of Law 4512/2018, the pilot implementation of the e-assessment and the provision of welfare benefits to young disabled persons was decided. Don't lie to us that the calculation of the disability rate is independent of the new fruit of the accountability, based on the functionality of the disabled. It takes into account the functionalities of the disabled person in the disability rate, and if it is considered that the disabled person should receive the allowance, he will not receive the pension. In other words, you are abolishing the concept of the pension for the disabled. You are aiming to move from the medical-centric approach to the disability in a way that will now assess the way in which people with disabilities operate. In other words, the beneficiaries of disability benefits, as well as the special insurance scheme, will not be judged on the basis of their objective disability or chronic serious illness, but by the way in which they operate as disabled. This is the vehicle through which the new round of attack on the allowances and benefits for the disabled and the long-term sufferers will be promoted. But you are hiding these things, Minister, and you are not saying the new body, the OPEKA, has the task of implementing and controlling the absolute implementation of these measures based on the directions of the European Union. That is the essence of the framework of the national social solidarity system which you consider neither too much nor much as revolutionary innovation. It's the logic of the reinsurance law - glossy 4387/16. This will continue to implement the well-known anti-grassrooted policy that massively widens the relative poverty, which removes rights and needs, reduces wages, pensions and adds new burdens to the people's families. Taxation, carpeting, increased payments in health, medicines, education. It's too bad! A policy that takes away from the people's families ten and returns one to those who live in extreme poverty. However, these too are not sure, since they will depend on the course of the anti-popular budgetary targets and the bloody surpluses that will not stop in August 2018, but will last until 2060, with primary bleeding surpluses of between 2.5% and 3.5% depending on the budgetary path. All this confirms what the JRC has said and insists: that the core of this policy lies in managing poverty only in its most extreme forms and at the minimum financial cost. These benefits do not only cover additional needs, but only a small part of their basic needs, just to avoid dying. The JRC, ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of the debate and the discussion at the hearing of the bodies, supports the demands of workers in the OGA for the permanentisation of IDAC workers, for the reinforcement of - and staffing of all the agencies' services with additional staff. It supports the demands of the multi-twelves, the third-family families for no allowance cut, without asterisks, without preconditions and parentheses and their card of movement. We are voting against Articles 1, 2 and 4, which mainly refer to the content of the policy to be implemented by the new body in accordance with the above criticism. In the other articles of Chapter I, namely Articles 3, 5 and 50, we are voting'representations'. And now I come to Part II and to Article 51 on the implementation of a programme of municipality funding for the establishment of new sections of infant, child and baby care. This article provides for the financing of municipalities from the regular state budget for the establishment of up to two new parts of infant, child or baby care. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We agree with the state funding for the increase in day-care facilities, which is why we shall be voting in favour. However, this does not mean satisfying all applications for free hospitality for all infants and infants. The government's announcements concern the resolution of part of the problem. However, in order to cover even this, in order to allow another ten thousand children to go, the cost of services provided per child and for what they are already going, and for those which will go after the new kindergartens, should be reduced. They remain the income criteria for the approval of the relevant applications at the level of poverty, while a large proportion of the people's families are forced to pay food, as well as for so-called additional benefits in both municipal and private kindergartens. It is also necessary to provide for similar state funds for the recruitment of permanently qualified staff to operate new kindergartens, for which the bill says nothing. In short, the government's policy has nothing to do with purely public and free education for all, with two years of compulsory pre-school education, with pre-school pre-school pre-school pre-school pre-school pre-school pre-education, with full-time kindergartens for all children, with feeding for all children with the responsibility of the state and all children under the age of four at public schools, without food. It should be permanent and stable work for all workers, kindergartens and nurses. These are demands and targets which are responding to the modern folk needs now and not in the future and which are at the reverse of the policy planned by the government and this urban state, which deprive pre-school education of thousands of children, while unrelentingly loading the working folk family with carpets, sacrifices and measures in the name of the recovery of the profitability of business groups. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, as you have done in previous speakers, who have allowed them to speak for up to seventeen minutes, I think you should do the same with me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u76	All right, Mr. Covenant. I didn't hear it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u77	'All right' can't be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u78	You can move on. It's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u79	Mr President, I don't have eyes on my back to see what you're doing right now. For two minutes, he rings the bell and you don't listen, even though you're in your position.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u80	I didn't hear it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u81	Mercy! I am not going to place myself on everything, I will only say about the "Sikiatric Foundation". It's Article 53, voting on it. It was exempted from the obligation to have tax and insurance information. The exemption was valid until 31/12-2017 and the new provision was extended until 31. - 12. -2018. In the previous regulation we voted 'in favour'. We shall now vote 'in favour'. It is a training centre of fourteen to twenty-one years old, with mental deprivation and we vote 'in favour' on the basis that children are not left without a school, that is to say, all the contributions due to the workers must be paid directly and that employers' contributions to the insurance funds must be paid. We stress, however, that this regulation does not guarantee a solution to the financial problem of the institution, as State sub-financing continues. The problem, even if it is temporarily settled, will come back, as is the case with the majority of the institutions. We believe that the government is continuing the same policy as the previous governments, that is to say, the state does not develop special education and training structures and, at the same time, it is underfunding the existing institutions. In our view, all these institutions should go beyond the full responsibility of the State, be fully and adequately financed by the state budget, without the insurance funds, namely the workers, and provide their services absolutely free. We are also voting in favour of Article 55 on the Roma. For the rest and for the amendments, because there are also the amendments, we will be placed in our second language. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, too. Mr. Papachristopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr President. I listened very carefully to the rapporteur for Officerial Response, and I wondered if I could live in another country, if I could live somewhere else. First of all, because who really deals with the pre-accession state needs to be cleared up - I should like to say a few examples, which are fresh, as it is timely. A drug, Gilenya, gets honor and then recompense within one month with fast track procedures, very fast. However, the same procedure for invoking new medicines does not apply to anyone else. For two competing medicines of this medicine it takes two years to get honor and get into the market. Gilenya costs 1,473 euros and Aubagio exactly half. This is a tangible example of the social sensitivity of the former. Secondly, in addition to the fact that half of Greece was found to have a macular spot, statistics exceeding England, France, Germany, the corresponding drug, for which the president of pharmacists, Mr. Lourados, was hit every day in the channels, it cost thirty times more than the corresponding one. In fact, Lucentis traffic broke all the records. This was the second example of the social sensitivity of our predecessors. I want to say one more, though. I'm talking with evidence. What I believe you will hear, but it is very important to see what the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights then believed in a conference, Mr George Surlas. The conference was held on 19-6-2013. I say it, let's see the sensitivity of our predecessors. So it says in this conference that a machine purchased by Spain 4 million drachmas was illegally invoiced by an offshore company on Man - Listen, listen! - 174 million drachmas. And not only that, but it also received a grant of 79 million drachmas. That is, 4 million paid and charged by the Greek State, now find out how much they come out in euro! Furthermore, in this day, to see what sensitivity there was, I'm pinching and I'm saying, and I'm in another country, and I didn't understand, it was said that a radio medicine, which enters EUR 238, is placed on the market with EUR 3 000 in Greece. In addition, in this conference, on the occasion of the Secretary-General - not to say it again - executive, Minister of Health, and for those who do not remember - it is the man who first denounced the Koskotta scandal and paid it from his party, we really learn that there are multinational companies punished in America with fines that were unbelievably bribed by Greek officials in Greece. I'm telling you this to see how fracturing it was and how sensitivity there was back then. The OECD rises up by saying "children, why don't you do anything?", it's been two years and the case is filed. Surlas, 2012-2013. In his honor, he sends the case to the prosecutor of corruption, Gregory Peponnes, on 12-10-2012. It's the period at issue. The fate of the Peppone? Upgrade to decommission and disappear. The most important of all in the conference is that, in the most moderate calculations, these losses amount to more than 12 billion a year. It is a conference which, I say, is the General Secretariat for Transparency and Human Rights for the days of previous governments. Multiplier the 12 billion a year for seven years, to see whether Paulakis is excessive or not. I'm leaving. This is the sensitivity of the previous ones, because I was listening to the representative here and pinching. I'm saying I might make a mistake. I would like to mention - and it is important - that all people who are involved in information technology in our country, but also internationally, say: Promoting e-government is the key to a country's recovery. It reduces bureaucracy, corruption, the customer state, attracts investment and, in any case, is the vehicle for real growth. They say that on a global level. I'm not talking about the past. To talk about the present and the future. The National Identity System did so by this government. The National System of Electronic Public Contracts does so by this government. As far as electronic justice is concerned, the people you have noticed said: "Remember that by August everything will have changed in justice." Why am I saying this? I want to be fair. The e-prescription was made by our predecessors, made by PASOK. And that was a positive step that everyone was fighting. And when I say 'all', I mean everybody. The electronic invoices are now. We have the electronic payment way, what we do every day. Why am I saying this? So today's bill - not only to pay tribute to Nikos Papapas and Olga Gerovasili - is the third pillar that refers to the welfare of e-government. And because I don't like to talk to you in words, I suggest we look for a little bit, see what comes out of this bill. First of all, one of the nine addresses is IT. The Deputy Minister is here. Really, what prevented previous people from having such an address, which we talked about, where he leads and what can he achieve? I'm moving on with evidence. I've got everything in front of me. The platform for the welfare state is IT. I'll go down. The disabled's file is electronic. These worms went every two years to CCPD and they don't have to go anymore. The whole technology is still a latest generation digital. Still anyone's application to get an allowance to see what they're entitled to is electronic. I'm telling you all this, let's really see what previous people did. You know, these are decades of conquest in the European Union, for those who do not know it. And I can tell you exactly when it happened in Denmark, Sweden, Belgium, Germany, etc. The whole pillar is digital. In addition to the digital pillar of the national mechanism, the pillar of the KEPA is digital. Computerized system didn't exist. Fifty-four employees were all. He laughed at every bitter one. Today, the whole system is electronic. Can he intervene, Minister? Oh, no! Can he intervene mayor? Oh, no! Can he intervene with a MP? Oh, no! Do we want this or not? Is it a step? I would also like to remind you, because this government has been very criticised, the 1,400,000 that it has spent in recent years, the last year, on the one hand, on the other. Did he lose one quarter of the Greek population 40% of his income? Yes or no? These are official statistics. The other 50% lost 35%, yes or no? The dividend was 1.4 billion dollars. The euro. Here I would like to quote and remind those who swing the finger today that the debt as a percentage of GDP was 120% and that government received it at 180%. Is he saying something? I still want to remind you that the debt was 325 billion dollars. With Surla's calculation, there are 85 billion people in health. How many are coming out for the Olympic Games? Does anyone remember 40 billion on top of them? How much do they get out for the equipment? Does anyone remember them? How many are coming out for 'Siemens'? And most of all, where did the company's money go? Outside. Has the country been charged or not? Got her bankrupt? Who has an argument to the contrary? Let's get to it. For the first time - and rightly so - a country shared the 1,400,000 euros in a very crowd. I would also like to say, in order to reach agreement in this Chamber - and I have heard that it is a product of overtaxation and I have been listening to it for the second time, but they do not read, do not sit down and read the evidence - that EKKA had him for perfection, and from 900 million 'inside', he went, in terms of receipts, to 1,200,000, or 300,000 more euros. The EIA further EUR 300,000 of its ongoing checks and EUR 400,000 of tax evasion. How many got the Social Solidarity Benefit? Is it big? No, kiddo. Over six hundred thousand. And yet - it is of great interest to say and I want to show a sensitivity here, but I believe that the Minister and the Prime Minister have already committed themselves - there has been a lot of talk about the eight hundred thousands of families receiving benefits. Let's get this straight. 92% of them, that is, seven hundred thirty-eight thousand, will see increases that touch 100%. You want me to tell the numbers, we need to remember them again, how long he got for one child and how long he'll get now? He took 480 euros and he'll get 840 euros. For both children, they will get 960 euros, etc.. I guess this is where we agree. There's a little charge you'll see. With a great deal of honesty the Minister has recognised it and says: "Yes, there are two charges to see reductions, which will be dealt with in 2018". I am making my call here, Minister, and I would like your reply. And the Prime Minister said in his speech that he commits not to lose a single euro from these people. I believe that even if a multitude or a third party is prosperous, we have an obligation not to cut him a half euro and because I know your sensitivity, I am sure you will answer that. See what was there from the social state, so we can get a little clear? There were thousands of institutions. Nobody knew how much. Five hundred, they said then. Looking for the fact that a thousand five hundred had arrived. What status was there? Uncontrollable, private initiative, NGOs. I'm joining everyone. What's NGO gonna say? I know guys who founded NGOs to get the subsidy and nothing else. Because I belonged to such a NGO, to the "Doctors of Peace", our statute was forbidden to take money from the HR. The Minister hasn't refused it. Legal persons under private law had undertaken social protection. There were allowances that no one controlled. It's worth it to see here really in what order this bill comes in and says: "I have nine addresses. First address: family allowances, second address: social solidarity benefits, third address: handicapped, fourth place: Agriculture and so on.’ Where have you seen her like that? And I'm reminiscent of a specific address called IT. Who prevented you from doing it? I could talk until tomorrow, but I would like to say two words about demographics. Do I have some more time, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u84	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u85	I hear about the demographics. Do you know which countries they managed to solve? France and Germany. Do you know why? Because they have kindergartens, kids, etc. Twenty-four o'clock. The Deputy Minister is currently racing for this 24/7. How will the new couple feel that he can have a child if he doesn't have safety? Did school meals play a role where some people mocked it as being just a bunch? Great. That's a great try. Secondly, a great deal of effort, which is very important to me, is the issue of adoption. We're all against the foundations and you know it. Institutionalization was the worst. Who's been making a terrible effort for the first time on the issue of adoption? That government. I don't want to go into details. I want to get to another point - so that I don't get far - that I've been burned for years. For the first time - we have never done what I say to you, and I do not know what prevented them from being so horrendously sensitive to do so - we have checked for three hundred seventy seventy Roma camps. Has anyone done this before? If he's done it, he'll tell me. Some of them lived in a terrible state and you know that when you're on the margin, you have antisocial behavior. Shouldn't he be hit at his root? Who's doing it? This is the government. I could talk until tomorrow, because for me it is not at this moment that growth in the country, when a large part of the population is on the sidelines. I said again to the committees that when eight people on the planet have assets as much as half the world's poor population, i.e. 3.6 billion, it is not called injustice, it is called a perversion. It's a model of economics that some see it, children of the market. Is that where we want to go? Eight people having assets of 3.6 billion? Oh, no. No, gentlemen. I would even like to tell you that I have been criticised by many. And I'm telling them: guys, I'm saying this, I'm not left. I belong to another party, just like Uluf Palme. Ulf Palme, along with Erlander, managed the market to have rules, "VOLVO" to pay, "SCANIA" to pay, "SAAB" and all companies and, on the other hand, a social reference point for the whole planet.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u86	Mr. Papachristopoulos, finish it,
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u87	I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u88	...because you're going to cover the tritology you don't have.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u89	Mr President, you are right. I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u90	But where am I supposed to find it, right?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u91	Worren Buffet, the world's second richest man, says recently: "I am not investing in corrupt countries, because it is not just a moral issue, it is a matter of substance". And if we manage to hit the stride and corruption, the mid-term dictatorship, the incredible offshore with the tax havens and some who brought not with re-racialism the country here that brought her to be expelled from this system, the country will go away and go ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u92	Mr. Fokas has the floor from the Centroon Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with the draft law on the Development of the Organization for the Preferential Benefits and Social Solidarity (OPEKA) the government says that it modernises the system of granting preferential benefits through the creation of a single body. Indeed, she gave the bill the urgency of convincing her social sensitivity. It follows the constant practice of bringing many bills to the House as urgent. This reduces consultation and demonstrates that much of what is happening is done on the leg, even when it comes to issues relating to social policy. With this bill, the tombstone enters the OGA, despite the fact that the Prime Minister was committed in February 2016 to maintain as an autonomous insurance fund for a transitional period, until 2021. The OGA is moving to OPEKA and is now a single body, a single authority for the performance of prosperous, social benefits, for electronic recording and control, for electronic crossing and for the performance of all benefits. Instead of creating a new structure, in line with existing needs, a mechanism based on the existing OGA structure is created. The government is once again following the swept of the last three years, the sluggishness and the voluntary policy, which makes it as if it were a positive development. You impoverish Greeks with great ease and instead of improving social policy, you check pensions, wages, allowances, you impose extermination taxes, and you then fall for your probative policy. You are turning the country into an endless poor house, but you are gratifying to share benefits. With regard to the bill, OPECA as the successor of the OGA retains the existing insurance responsibilities, continuing to provide allowances to families, uninsured over-ages, while also aspiring to be a shield for people who need help. And this is where the following questions arise: Does the new agency have all the necessary guarantees to function fully or to deal with the 'child disease' which has been afflicting the ECA a year after it was launched? Have you recorded and evaluated the procedures for granting benefits? Have you assessed the effectiveness of today's allowances? The most effective and important thing in pro-active policy is the performance of any allowances that citizens, when the allowance is approved, are entitled to complete in a reasonable period of time and not after months, which in many cases reaches all ten months. I should like to refer here to the positive points of the bill: OGA staff will continue to be the staff of OPEKA, maintaining the same organic position, category, industry, specialty, grade, salary scale and all the rights arising from its previous service situation. It is a great opportunity now to evaluate existing staff, aimed at a more operational organisation. You say, at the same time, that new jobs must be created, as there must be prior vacancies in the OGA, which will now be the organic positions of permanent staff and five lawyers with paid-off relationships to legal support the work of the agency's services. These are provided for in Article 9(8). In total, OPEKA will employ 383 employees, 360 of which will be permanent staff and 23 private law of indefinite duration. And I ask: are 383, if there is a proper evaluation of the staff? I think that the 383 workers, Minister, are too much, bearing in mind that there is computerization to help the citizen directly without harming him. With regard to the Management Board of the OPEKA, Article 6 expressly states that it will be composed of 9 members, while providing for obligations, responsibilities, reasons for deduction of members, the way in which they are replaced and the duration of their term of office, which helps to ensure legality. If clear targets are not reached in the administration, as is the case with private enterprises, we are not going to see anything new in this organisation. It is also clear in Article 43 that issues relating to the financial management and auditing of OPEKA's accounts and budget are also laid down. Some of these are the preparation, adoption and implementation of the budget, the procedures for the implementation of expenditure, the procedures for the collection of revenue, the procedures for the allocation of appropriations, the issue of comitology orders, etc. It is also rightly foreseen that separate budgets and balance sheets, which are included in a particular section in the general budget and balance sheet, are drawn up in the balance sheet of the OPEKA. Article 47 provides for the creation of an integrated OPEK register. With the creation of this register - which is very well done - citizens must be involved and their suffering is zero, that is to say, not asking the public to produce various documents and papers - which I imagine we have lived through - and anything else to deal with, but that the agency is doing the cross-checking of data electronically. Let us not forget that we have all been taxing too hard in recent years. We have a right to proper service. A unified OPEKA register will therefore be established, which will include beneficiaries of all kinds of welfare and financial assistance of the Agency, as well as its living and deceased debtors. Article 51 of the draft law states that the Greek Constitution in Article 21 provides that family, maternity and childhood are to be protected by the State, which also has an obligation to take all necessary measures to design and implement a demographic policy. The second part of the bill provides for the implementation of a funding programme to establish up to two new sections of infant and child care in each municipality, starting in 2018. You're right, you're thinking about it, but you didn't tell us where you're going to get the money they need and how much that's gonna be. Article 55 establishes the procedure for demonstrating the knowledge of the language and the local dialect Romani, while redefined the scheme of granting the legal persons of a non-profit-making nature who provide social care services and the implementation of the annual campsite programme. This act, of course, is a major move for the real needs of the Roma. At some point all of them will have to join our social fabric and be beneficial to society as a whole. It is a given fact that the Centro Association supports and will always support a welfare state, but a state that will provide social benefits directly and not cover the general discontent of the people. Above all, we support a state that does not flag its benefits. What needs to be understood by the government, what needs more than anything the Greek citizen is the right to work, is the right to business, is the right to profit a business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, too. Mr. Amyras from the river has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, you know the expression - 'the money is a lot' - now we say 'they are a lot of decibels'. Sound adjustment needs to be made. After Mr Papachristopoulos' speech, I honestly speak to you that I hear a frequency in one of my ears. It's unbelievable. So there really needs to be a sound setting on the microphones. Good, welcome to the new systems, but don't ruin our ears. Ladies and gentlemen, a pro-active policy, then. We are actually putting on new foundations the way in which the welfare policy of the state is managed. In my opinion, three should be the key elements characterising any action, reform, intervention in this area. The first is benefits to catch a place. That's very important. In order to do this, however, two other steps precede. The first and main thing is that there should be cross-checks of those benefits that are applied for by the tax data and all that should be available as databases for the administration to draw up its decision correctly. Step three is speeding up decision-making. I would therefore say, Madam Minister, that this draft law has very positive provisions. I have not yet, of course, been particularly designated for the way in which the evaluation is to take place, so that these allowances can be caught, not to go to a bucket, a black hole. I find it very important, on the basis of Article 4, that there is a compulsory electronic cross-check of the data requested by an allowance with the databases maintained by the Independent Authority of Public Revenues, the Civil Registry of the Ministry of Interior, the National Retirements System Register, the social security institutions' information systems, OAED, Greek Police and ECCA. Mrs Fotiou, do I give you the software that will run these systems, do you not give it to both the Ministry of Finance and the ASE, so that we do not waste time in distinguishing the contents of the notorious lists - with sons - Lagard, one of the other? I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the tax cases that were hidden within the Lagard list for the years 2006-2011 have unfortunately been omitted, of course, by the decision of the S.H.E., which the independent authority has rushed to adopt. It is really a oxymomile, if not worrying, that legislation is needed for the self-evident, that is to say, the creation of a register for the beneficiaries of benefits. But, so many years the Greek state with the taffe and the pencil went and what the auditor remembered was pointing it out? I continue by saying that we must not get from one end to the other, Mrs Fotios, that is, from where we had the overnumbers, as you will remember, or the blind in Zakynthos, the blind taxi drivers, the disabled in Greece, who, by the thousands, received allowances and, of course, were not entitled, by that sinner, we should not go through the long delay in the adoption of decisions due to control and cross-checking. That is a risk I want to highlight to you. Ladies and gentlemen, there were huge delays in the OGA to set up a committee to examine the requests of the beneficiaries of benefits or pensions. It is crucial that people do not usually have and do not have other resources, but expect these benefits. The same delays should not be observed with the new organisation. This is very important, because there were problems with representation in the courts - you know very well - that led to cases being postponed in the courts until the matter of representation has been cleared up. All this was at the expense of the beneficiary, the weakest. Madam Minister, I have a few more questions I have not yet received clear answers from the committees. So I want some of them to repeat, and please, if you want, give me your lights. I have not yet understood the role and responsibilities of the Government representative in the Board of Directors in Article 6. Please, I would like you to make a point of that. Also, the remuneration of the members of the board of directors of the new organisation will be at what level? There is no reference in the report of the General Accounting Office of the State. I'd like an assessment. Also with regard to Article 7 and the commander's responsibilities, my permanent position is that for any post of responsibility that belongs to the public or to the wider public sector, the procedures should be open, there should be equal access to all those who believe that with their increased qualifications they can claim this post. I would therefore like to point out that the choice of the person of the commander of the new organisation must be made on the basis of the increased and tested qualifications that each candidate or person who finally chooses for this post, as well as with deep knowledge of the subject. In Article 9 we have some provisions for the staff of the OPEKA. They are given the opportunity to receive interest-free loans, etc. I would say here that there may be or may arise an issue of equal treatment for civil servants, because it is probably the OPEKA that will be the exception to interest-free loans rather than the rule. In Article 10, there are transitional provisions for staff. Here, then, I am looking forward to the statement of responsibility at the level of the Directorate-General within one month of the entry into force of the law, so that the OPECA can function directly and promptly. We must not wait a day after this draft law has been passed to organise OPEKA, set up in its new form and undertake a project that is really hot and urgent, I would say. Now, Minister, I would like another clarification on Article 11, again on the five-and-a-half lawyers I told you about. You told me they'd get into the single payroll. In the report on the bill, I see that the annual expenditure is EUR 130,000 for five lawyers. It's compatible with the single payroll, so I can say that? Is that the wages? It's 2,500 euros...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u96	It's 2,500 euros mixed, all of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u97	It's mixed 2,500 euros a month for everyone. Yes, sir. With regard to Articles 14 to 42, I will tell you that the extensive description of the establishment plan is welcome. We are used by the public administration - and many governmental legislative initiatives, I would say - to put the cart back on the horse. Fortunately here we have a balanced description and the beginning of this process. With regard to general provisions on the exercise of the procedural means referred to in Article 46, I consider the limitations excessive for those making the application to be the way they are developed in paragraphs 4 and 5. You told me yesterday in committee that you wouldn't need a lawyer. But I see that these strict conditions are probably pushing the applicants and the case to the administrative courts and to the lawyers, because they will not be able to complete the application, the papers and the documents they are entitled to. Articles 51 to 57. It is an important step to set up nurseries in the municipalities, provided that the money to be planned and made available directly and targeted at the result is sufficient. Of course there should also be a return, an accountability and an assessment of the results of this funding for their establishment. As far as Article 56 is concerned, there has been a lot of talk. Of course, it is expressly required that these private legal persons of a non-profit nature, who will develop the action from budgetary appropriations of the Ministry, are specifically certified as providers of social care services. I would like to clarify that I ask which certifications are the ones that will pass. Where should they be certified? In an international register or in the register that has been opened in Greece for over a year and a half? In Greek, I guess. Of course, the adoption of expenditure by the Court of Auditors may speed up the procedures, but it may not speed them up, but we should also check for each euro that we give these legal persons to pass through the Court of Auditors and check it out. Article 57, which concerns the resolution of local authorities, seems to me positive. It is a big sum for the repayment of the municipality's obligations. It's 30 million euros. At some point the municipalities must come to settle their debts autonomously, not depend on the central government, and of course not on increasing or reducing the state subsidy. This is the ideal, I would say, which in the rest of Europe, as you know, has been conquered for many years. Ladies and gentlemen, I consider that to be a good thing, and Article 58 is Mrs Gerovasil's amendment - which is a shortcut in the deadlines. I come to the last point of my speech. The OGA, as we know, was the tool, it was the tank - so to speak - of the activities of farmers. However, farmers have the following issue, ladies and gentlemen: their red loans, the red agricultural loans of the old Agricultural Bank must be regulated. These loans to farmers, ladies and gentlemen, the farmers' red loans amount to 1750 000 000. Some eighty thousand farmers owe the bank in liquidation. By 20-9-2017, the "Single Special Settlement S.A.", which has undertaken the special liquidation of sixteen bad Greek banks, would, in theory, be activated by September, I would say again, 2017, the parallel extrajudicial mechanism to regulate the "red" agricultural loans of the old HEI and the debts of producers and farmers with the guarantee of the Greek State. I see here and Mrs Papanatsiou who, to a certain extent, is also concerned with this issue. Is there any planning by the government of how red loans will be dealt with? Is there a plan or provision for what is going to happen with the plots of agricultural loans, which have reached the stratosphere? Is there a government plan for auctioning or not of agricultural land for public and bank debt? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. These are issues which, whether we want it or not, are at the heart of this draft law indirectly and can take the welfare case or much more forward or far behind, unfortunately. So I'm waiting for some answers, Minister, from you. We are positive about the principle of the draft law. But I would like you to give me the explanations I have asked for. I hope that the subject of sound will also be settled, so that the ears of the children who come and listen to us will not be troubled. Be well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, sixty-two students and students and four educational attendants from the 41st High School of Athens. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Minister has the floor, Mrs Fotou.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the establishment and operation of the OPEKA, the Social Solidarity Benefit Agency, which we are voting on today is historic, is a part of the creation of the National System of Social Protection and Solidarity. For the first time, a National System of Social Protection and Solidarity with two pillars has been established. One is the national mechanism that you voted in 2016 and the second is the OPECA. Let's not be fooled. Everyone knows very well that there has never been a National Social Solidarity System in Greece nor of course there has been any safety net for extreme poverty. These "designed", "they had been piloted" are not valid. The Greek people know that in 2017 the CRL was made. In 2017, six hundred thousand twenty people took at least 65 million each month. Everything else is about philology. What was ahead? There were thousands of institutions, NGOs - which New Democracy has now discovered and I am astonished today - legal entities governed by private law, legal entities governed by public law, charitable associations. The state of Freudian mighty. This had taken on one part of social protection. They were all without certification. Few of them had when we received. I'll talk about it. There were no common principles of operation. We will bring the law soon - there is not and there is not yet - which will arrange for all the institutions to function for children, how all the institutions will function for the elderly, how all the institutions will operate for the disabled. It's all different. And only throughout the whole range of institutions were sixty-three institutions, legal entities governed by public law. About the social protection centres, what did we do? We immediately passed a law requiring all the institutions of the state to withdraw their operation - a very hard thing - to register by November last year in an electronic register, which had to mention everything for each institution, who benefited, when they came in, who are the philanthropists who are helping, who are the volunteers, who are the normal workers, what is the institution's property. There were huge institutions' assets and institutions were indebted. Thousands of institutions, I say again, that the New Democracy had not seen and discovered them today. This whole piece will be taken care of very soon. You gave us two hundred and fifty that slowly increased. Certified institutions became five hundred. You spent without any control on these two hundred fifty in 2014 -- when we received the situation in 2015-8 million. Neither control nor criteria nor 'why'. And today you are appalled because we want to set criteria for all of this with the article that we have in this bill. So that was the first, the foundations. The second is benefits. At least one hundred and fifty allowances - not in the number - were paid by all authorities, municipalities, regions, ministries, agencies, such as the OGA, which gave the family allowance. The Agricultural Insurance Agency, which was concerned with farmers, had undertaken to give the family allowance as well. I'm saying that, so we know what we're talking about in here. Everywhere, scattered. Thirdly, the welfare portfolio that we received: fifty-four out-of-four employees who were fighting with the monster of bureaucracy without control mechanisms. I mean, you should have - and here you all know it - to have a barbas in the Koronis to find out if you'll get an allowance, if you deserve it, when they'll give it to you, when they'll be approved, what means to get it at last, if you can put your disabled child somewhere or your acquaintance, if you can put your disabled father somewhere free or pay or your old father, and so on. That is why the old regime maintained this rabies system because it offered the largest "batch" of political clientele and political dependence that existed, in my view, in the Greek state. As far as the money was concerned? It was 2.2% of GDP, when the average in Europe was twice as high as 4.1% of GDP. Let us note this: of all the European states we were last in the spending on social protection. Why? Because the neoliberal view - we have heard it here today - is not investing in welfare. The welfare is regarded as a "black hole". "There you drop the money and remove it from growth," according to their own model. So, when we have growth, we also give some "fashion" to welfare. In Greece, however, this was not the case either. Over the years of prosperity again, welfare expenditure has been the last in all of Europe. We also know from scientific studies that every euro spent on welfare has a multiplier in the country's GDP of 1,03 or 1,68, depending on where it is spent. He's creating jobs. I'll show you why we created and how many jobs. This is immediately invested in the economy and is immediately spent for other reasons, which we will mention next time. That is why when we received in 2015 a budget of 790,000, in three years of economic suffocation, we reached it at 1.836,000,000, i.e. two and a half times more this year, in 2018. In 2019 - what you have voted on - expenditure will already increase to about 3 billion, i.e. an increase of about four times, 400% over these years that we have undertaken. We say that welfare expenditure increases jobs. Fifty-four welfare employees have become eighty over our days. In addition, seven hundred were appointed in the community centres under ASP procedures. Seven hundred new jobs. Moreover, the state is now being subordinated to two hundred and eighty of the current OGA officials who will join the OPEKA. So the new national social protection system starts with over a thousand employees, where it had fifty-four. That's the big difference. We have, of course, been preparing it with great perseverance, knowledge and innovation since 2016. No Memorandum commitment has been made. We did not have a Memorandum of Understanding on this. So we say it proudly: It is our arrest, our identity and we are fully familiar with it. It is based on the knowledge of Greek reality. It responds to the pathogens of the previous situation: bureaucracy, suffering, corruption, clientele relations. He has multiple mechanisms to prevent them. That is why the New Democracy is voting against. It has invented something new, even for Europe. Most of all, however, he has a man, his dignity, his rights. He has at the heart of his arrest all Greek citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not about extreme poverty, it is not about the needy, because child policies are about all children. The policies for the disabled concern all of us, since all of us at some point in our lives may be in this situation. Policies for the elderly are for all of us, because, as you can see, we're getting old. Housing policies are for all of us, those who do not have a home or have a loan. That is why the new national social protection and solidarity system is all digital in order to eliminate suffering, bureaucracy, party 'protection', customer relations. At each step it crosses six state databases, tax, bonuses, etc., so that in one minute the citizen can know his rights, i.e. what benefits he needs to receive, what functions he needs... [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, I shall also take my dentistry. Every citizen, therefore, will be able to know within a minute what the benefits are, what the services are, what the programmes are 'current' in his area or at a national level in which he wants to take part. Why didn't that happen until today? Why didn't you connect six databases? Was that so hard? Come on, let me tell you how much this whole story has cost, when you have eaten billions of euros for the infamous information society, for the notorious history of electronization of all systems.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u100	I'll see you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u101	So we built the National Social Solidarity System, digital, with two pillars. The first one was voted against by New Democracy in 2016. She knew, she knew that he cut her off her client's umbilical cord. It was the two hundred forty community centres in the municipalities, the single geo-informatics system, the seven hundred young employees with an ASP. So you're going as a Greek citizen to the community center with your AMKA or your AMKA and ask: “What benefits can I get? What services am I entitled to? What unemployment programmes can I get in?’ They answer you immediately for the benefits you can get, because in front of the clerk your whole situation is coming. I mean, your income, your fortune, your children, your allowances and everything crossed in front of you. So he immediately tells you what you're entitled to. Immediately he tells you which services you're still getting. I mean, cheap stream, water. You're going to a nursery, your child, you're entitled to food, you're entitled to too many services. He's telling them. What OAED program are you going to? What program can you go to training? What specialization program? All the programs run in front of your eyes. This system is committed, Mr Constantopoulos, as a government to give it to all municipalities in the next month and beyond two hundred forty. In the three hundred and twenty-five municipalities, provided we are appointed accredited officials to "run" their social services. We're not staying here. But once this application is made, and after you understand what has happened to you, because at that time the employee helps you make the request - you can make it from your home - the application is automatically transferred to the OPEKA. So here's OPEKA with his own geo-informatics system, directly connected to the mechanism. At the same time, it is transferred to the OPEKA. It has the legal criteria, OPEKA, in his information system, and does all the necessary digital actions, to give you the allowance. And he tells you when you get it from where you get it from, that is, which account of the people you've declared you'll get it from. This is the National Social Solidarity System of this government, SYRIZA - ANEL. And if you had another, show me, because I really care about that. I will not dwell at all - to finish and not to tire you too much - on the whole of the OPEKA system, which I think you are all aware of, you have all now analysed it, Members, representatives of the parties, rapporteurs, etc. But I want two things to say. Firstly, I would like to thank the officials of today's remaining OGA, I mean those who have not been incorporated into the ECA. That was the OGA. All in 2017, it was only the piece that had not been incorporated into the EFCA and, I think, I see one of his employees in the gallery. The other one I see is, I think, the FBI. You see we know them. I would like to thank them for having systematically worked on the article for a year in cooperation with the current administration of the OGA, namely the commander and all its staff. At this point I would like to personally thank the Governor of the OGA Stelios Pliaki. With its synthetic logic, with its calm perseverance, with its great knowledge and experience, he has contributed greatly to the excellence of this bill, which you all know is at every point of the processed, regardless of what we have heard for three days from the mouths of no listeners. I have known many OPEKA officials for a year and we have been relying on the government and I personally, on their experience, knowledge and enthusiasm. Ladies and gentlemen, the new OGA, OPEKA, the evolution of the old OGA, I believe the new OPEKA will be extremely dear to Greece. I think it will relieve the Greeks. It will give them all the dignity and honor that a state deserves to give its citizens. That's why I think he'll be as dear as the old OGA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u102	Thank you. We are now passing on to the list of speakers and then giving the floor to the first parliamentary representative who asked for it. Mr Yoyakas, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u103	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the conversion of the OGA into a single body responsible for social and voluntary benefits. I too would like to make it clear to those who see us or will read us that the New Democracy does not disagree with the integration of the system that manages these benefits. After all, it was the Samaras government, which with Mr. Yiannis Vroutsi at the Ministry of Labour, began this effort in 2014, but an effort was not completed, as the country was dragged to elections. The New Democracy disagreement is that with this bill, with this new privileged OGA, the government once again puts the cart in front of the horse. We wanted the OGA to be maintained, as a farmer’s insurance body, when your own government stripped him of the insurance powers before abolishing it. You are now creating an organisation for benefits, without having a policy for allowances, a policy that should have meant social benefits going to those most in need, to our fellow citizens who face the risk of poverty, because so far this is not the case. Data published last year, but related in 2016, we are told that social benefits, such as the ESS, which you abolish, the long-term unemployment allowance and the benefits of children and disability, help to reduce the risk of poverty in our country by four percentage points. In the European Union of twenty-eight, the effectiveness of social benefits in reducing the risk of poverty is about twice as high. In short, ladies and gentlemen, the current system of allowances does not help, as far as possible, those who are most in need. A single entity does not solve this problem by itself, how much more when it seems to be an empty shirt. It's not enough for a new organogram and a change of name. Citizens and, above all, the tens of thousands of retired people waiting see what is going on with the ECA, which continues to operate, two years later, with a provisional regulation and a temporary structure. They see what is going on with the regional services of the OGA, and next to the OPEKA, who have no employees, Ms. Minister, and have no computers to do their job properly, as is the case in Yannina. They see thousands of uninsured, over-aged, not getting their rightful solidarity allowance, as so far decisions have been made for less than 10% of applications. I hope and hope, Minister, that the citizens do not have any new troubles, because from the bill we understand that the new body will only be single in the name of it. They are transferred enough, but not all benefits, without first being assessed, if they are given to those who have to, in what way, at what cost and at what result. You told us in committee that you recorded the hundreds of fifty allowances of every kind given today, but that's as far as it goes. Everything is left to ministerial decisions once again, as in a ministerial decision, details of the unified register of the new organisation in Article 47, in which various elements of the beneficiaries will be entered. And the question remains, which I do not think has been answered by the committee, as to when the ministerial decision on the register will be ready. As we would like, Minister, to tell us when you believe that the register will be fully operational, because it will first have to be linked to all the databases and registers that exist in the public office for the beneficiaries of the allowances. I said a moment ago about the need for everyone who deserves the various advantages and social benefits. Perhaps the Minister and some colleagues know that many of our life-long disabled people are invited to return to and re-examine the CSR. It happened a few months ago with people with severe mental deprivation, many of whom lost their relative allowance, because they were arbitrarily valued at their mental level. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like your tolerance for a minute. I have been transferred that one of the elements in the single register for the beneficiaries of disability benefits is a CEPR code that corresponds to an opinion on the identification of disability. Is it true that the registry will include such a code? And, if so, what about people with serious disability who have been certified for life before the health committees of the former prefectures?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u104	We didn't hurt anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u105	Madam Minister, a lot of people have been tempted. If you see what is going on in the CEPR committees, colleagues doctors are more troika than real troikas in terms of criteria.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u106	I'll answer that right away.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u107	You should answer that. Especially the new CEDEFOP, which has been formed over the last few years, has very difficult elements to judge for the committee and to get someone with a disability rate, whether he has cardiologics or has other problems. Honestly, he's become too tough.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u108	Please, please, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u109	Finally, I appreciate and I want to draw you...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u110	That's what we're trying to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u111	Yes, but, Mrs. Jufi, we see reality. We see children with mental discomfort, who are really - and you know them much better than I do - suffering, being cut and not receiving the mentally deprivation allowance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u112	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u113	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u114	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u115	Mr President, I have to reply because it has now begun to develop a philology, which has already started with remarks by Mr Syntagakis, and we cannot allow it to continue, because we are creating a huge group, people with disabilities that are very much, a great deal of anxiety and concern as if we were not to be. Firstly, in order to end this way, just as the disabled people took the disability rate from the ESDP on the basis of the ESDP - a single disability determination table - and on the basis of the three-member committee, so it will take place from now on, only all the elements of the disabled will have already been transferred to the CSDP electronically, all his files, all his exams, so that the man does not come out. One of the prisoners. Secondly, we have all the statistics of recent years from the CSR. As you know the CCPs are connected to an electronic system that records how many applications it has rejected, how many has approved. I'll bring them to the House, but come and see the parties if the number of negative answers has been reduced...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u116	I'll come, Minister. I'll get you answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u117	Sure. I have all the statistics and I now know at the heart of the system what percentage of positive responses they were from CEPD to 2015 and what they are from now on. What you are saying is false, and at the moment you must not disperse such anguish and such a lie to the disabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u118	Madam Secretary, the families of the disabled must say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u119	The disabled know that, which is why the representative of the ESDC said that they consider this bill to be extremely positive. Exquisitely positive! Read ASEM’s announcement, read the paper that has been deposited to us and stop plucking into the most sensitive and difficult issue, which is disability. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u120	Mr. Ilias Panagiotaros has the floor since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr President. Before I begin, I, too, would like to express my condolences to the family of Manos Manolakos, a good fighter, who was fighting from various moments for homeland, religion and family. And from what experience and life showed, to a certain point, he was probably struggling with the wrong procession where he was thrown away at some point, because he went to a funeral, while, if he had gone to someone's funeral, he might have been a minister. I'm going to make a very small comment about what happened in the last few days in Imia. The only response from the government that can wash away, for the second time, shame against national sovereignty is only if the Prime Minister along with the Minister of National Defence, along with A/HIMA and other officials go and drink coffee on the rocky islands. Anything else is continuous retreat. For this bill we have at some point heard the speaker of PASOK - or as it is said, we do not know who FTL is playing ball at the moment - to talk about the greatness of the past and the social policy they were doing at that time. Of course, judging by the result, this social policy has led to the destruction of this place. Of course, social policy had said that it was also the former Mayor of Halkidona, Papadopoulos of PASOK, who exterminated the elderly and used to treat them with property. We heard yesterday - because you see developments running and the news has too much - Mr Georgiadis' panic at the SKAI television station, saying 'but I didn't give 65 million to 'NOVARTIS', but they finally made the additions there on the ground and found that he had actually given 65 million that the state owed 'NOVARTIS'. For this draft law, which is about the development of the OGA, an insurance body, which has so far been the dismantling of the rural world in the difficult circumstances, we can see that, unfortunately, with the various memoranda policies of the governments of New Democracy, PASOK, SYRIZA, ANDEL and others, which have been involved in recent years, social welfare, rural welfare through the OGA, is gradually being curtailed or eliminated in various ways. Because the OGA along with the farmers was one of the pillars of the national economy. They were also pillars of demographic and other serious issues. Here I would like to highlight a problem facing my own country and I am sure from information that we are collecting that in many parts of the Greek countryside. At Artemio Arcadias, an ELTA agency operated in a local café, which served two hundred and fifty inhabitants, most of whom were old and really able to do their job directly, without any problem, than to collect pensions up to some other procedures and loose ends. Unfortunately, this agency takes the ELTAs, and now the people of Artemis Arcadias, like residents of other small villages, should go to some larger villages, in this case in Levidis, with what this implies for so many people who live on their own and have nothing at all. So, gentlemen of the government, in a direct or indirect way, you continue the attempt to desolate the countryside. Instead of taking measures to keep the Greek citizen in the countryside, in the villages, in the islands and elsewhere, with your practices - which, unfortunately, are presented by the lenders in one way or another - you can remove the world from the countryside. You have brought - and we see - some amendments. Amendment No 1478/104 does not clearly have a part. One piece has to do with people with disabilities, and we agree. It seems, however, artificially and intentionally, that you have put in some issues of illegal immigrants, so that everyone can find themselves in the dilemma of what they will do. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Unfortunately, once again, we see a bill dealing with the agricultural world, confusing farmers with illegal immigrants. This, like many other such practices, is not right at all and we do not think it serves anything at all. The OGA or its evolution which, as you say, will be good - although we very much doubt it - should deal with farmers and not with illegal immigrants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u122	The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative Mr Brutsi has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u123	Ladies and gentlemen, it really needs courage to place one of these Steps before the Greek people in front of the National Representation and to tell all these beastly lies as regards the past, the present and the future. What, however, can one expect from a government that has deceived the entire Greek people, who has said beastly lies not only in election, but also in post-election? These lies continue even today enthusiastically, to mock and mock Greeks as a whole. Today - I am sorry to say this - I will only agree with the absent Mrs Fotio, who ignores the Civic Opposition and leaves at the time of the former Minister of Labour - and charged me with this so much before - I have to say this. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Please, it's gone. Keep up with SYRIZA. I'll agree with her that the bill is historic. And I want all Greek citizens to listen to this history today. Why is it a history? Because, ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing hundreds of thousands throughout Greece, in the rural world of our country, today with this bill, a seal is now being placed and a signature for the abolition of the OGA. It was an organization that ensured pensions, welfare for our country's rural world. It was the organization in which Mr Tsipras after the national elections had promised that he would not be bothered. And I will repeat something to become aware of SYRIZA's gentlemen, who either by ignorance or by conscious choice do not know and do not understand these things!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u124	Listen up, Mr. Brutsi, don't shout.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u125	So I'm saying this. OGA, the insurance agency for farmers, was an organization that even the troika, the institutions, respected him. I would remind you that in 2010 my predecessor, Andreas Loverdes, in the debate at that time with the troika on the new insurance law and the arrangements made in Law 3863, even the Troika accepted the Greek Government's request to maintain the OGA. And I'm talking about my predecessor, showing that in politics there must be consistency, continuity, respect in the past. When I became Minister in 2012, the Troika asked me if the Greek Government's view was the same. And I said, of course, she's the same. We want a discreet treatment, a discreet treatment of the most sensitive, the most interesting part of the Greek economy, of those people who wake up every day and go to the fields and fight every day for the rural land. And we have maintained the OGA with the agreement of the Troika - institutions as you call them refined and polite and you now meet with Hilton and not with the Ministries, paying the meetings with 1,500 euros a day. These are our differences. What's happening today? There is the definitive abolition of the OGA with the stamp and boulder of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL. What Mr Tsipras had promised beforehand from the tractors, what Mr Tsipras and the whole SYRIZA leadership and SYRIZA MPs, when you met farmers, had promised to end today. The OGA today is typically ending and essentially lost from every text we have known to date. And what is it that's mutating? It is now transformed into a new disastrous insurance environment, which will be known and experienced by farmers - they already feel it - from the end of February, as the new extermination levies, which will be increased by 37% to 61% for 2018. And, unfortunately, this discount of 15% is being exhausted this year and by 2022 these increases will reach 61% even in Europe's subsidies on agricultural subsidies denied by SYRIZA, which does not make sense on subsidies to calculate income. You bring to the farmer, gentlemen of SYRIZA, gentlemen of the government, the most painful way of dealing with them, essentially close their fields, lead them out of rural land. This will start to experience it intensely this year and of course more intensely than the year will come as a whole, as your country's extermination policy as a whole will come for the country's rural world. OPEKA: an organization for defrauding farmers and farmers, this is the 'translation' that I am giving. Don't worry about it, though. SYRIZA's well-advertised social policy seems to have been degraded throughout society. Neither one is watching you nor is anyone listening to you. Two different worlds conflict. Yeah, we're different. What you are pursuing with your social policy - and indeed we are different - is another political environment, which guides society, the economy in two things: poverty and the division of society. You seek through your policy, your ideas, to transform the Greek society into a society of benefits, the unemployed and the young children of our country, to be reconciled with a simple allowance and to see creation and to be removed. Yeah, we're different, we see things very different. But let's see how sensitive it is. Didn't you cut off the low-pension ESS? Didn't SYRIZA come in and cut to three hundred and eighty thousand low pensioners in the ESS? Some Members of Parliament also called it a product of tax evasion. That's who you are. Or should we look at the issue of labour market developments? The relationship between flexible forms of full-time employment and full-time employment in new recruitments is 60-40. SYRIZA project! And I'm going to something more important and more recent and topical. Listen to it, gentlemen of SYRIZA, but more so the Greek people, who already know why they are experiencing it. The young children of our country, those who must create, who must find jobs, and you are guaranteeing them the benefits of poverty and misery. EKA's data was announced, the Ministry's data on wages in the economy's employed sector for May 2017. The figures are overwhelming, overwhelming, results and indicators. For the first time, wages of EUR 327 are now being introduced, wages are being lowered by unemployment benefits. There you became the labour market and the Greeks, the unemployed and those who want to find a job, the young children of our country, who are leaving by dozens abroad. From 2015 to 2016, the study that came out shows that in SYRIZA the tendency to remove from Greece is three times. Brain drain with SYRIZA is gigantic. No hope, no prospects. That is your view, that is your understanding, that is your social policy. We're not the same. We disagree. We will overturn this for the good of the workers, for the good of the entire Greek society. We'll bring back the smile and the hope, the one you devastated. The true hope of creation, of prospect, of pride for the Greeks. The Greeks who want to create, create wealth, create family, stay in their place, find a job here with a decent wage, in order to reduce unemployment substantially and not in a way that is still in place today at 21.5% and the results that came out of the European Commission for work are not only heartbreaking, but are embarrassing for our country. Greece in the labour market compared with all Europe, and not only are we a piggyback, but all indicators differ at the level of long-term unemployment, at the level of unemployment, at the level of underemployment, at the level of wages. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] That's what SYRIZA did. This was what SYRIZA brought to Greek society, when he closed the eye and beat his hand electionly on the back of the workers and the unemployed and gave them jobs. He was giving them wage increases. This is the real picture of SYRIZA. Three years later, yes, three years after the SYRIZA government, everyone understood what SYRIZA was going to say and everyone waited for one day only, the day we were going to the polls, the day when we were going to vote, in order for the Greek people to return to you the great mockery, the reduction of their purchasing power, the reduction of their standard of living. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u126	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-eight students and students and four teachers attending the 3rd Amalada High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Stephen from SYRIZA has the floor. Immediately afterwards, Mr. Vettas will take the floor and the parliamentary representative of the Democratic Association will follow Mr. Andreas Loverdes. Here, Mr. Stephoe, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u127	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I admire the nerve levels of some of the speakers, but I am also concerned about their amnesia. Three years have passed and they think that the Greek people have forgotten what happened in 2010 and who have led us to bankruptcy, destruction, pain, destruction. He has forgotten the country exactly where they handed over to SYRIZA in 2014 with a health damaged, with a social welfare system broken down, with industrial relations completely broken down. Because I want to remind you that Mr Samaras was the one who brought the minimum wage to young people at EUR 380 and the largest at EUR 420. I would also like to remind you that you are underestimating the Greek people very much, if you think he has forgotten. How did he forget, when every week and every month you threatened him that there would be no pensions on the take-off machines and that there would be no wages to load measures and other measures? I want to remind you what exactly happened to health, but also to remind the Greek people of what we, who have been trying for three years to rectify it, set it up and give hospitals to the Greek people, assigning doctors, nurses and staff. We gave the right to all Greek citizens, to all citizens of this country, without color, religion, chromosomes, without differences in speech to have free access to health structures. I would like to remind you that we are the ones who have allowed free access to the medicine. You dare talk? You weep the OGA today, which you reached the limits of bankruptcy and fueled him financially to mock pensions and which you never took care of. Ladies and gentlemen, our rapporteur has been placed and obviously our parliamentary representative and also our Members will speak on the substance. I have heard the Minister, and I understand that this is a huge step, a step that will rationalise the welfare system in our country, a system which was deeply corrupt and intertwined, a system with infinite organisations that no one knew what it was, a system that was a man of customer relations. In listening to this whole debate, I have noted something that I would like to say to you and I would also like to have two more minutes to support an amendment that I shall table. De Gaulle said: "It's okay that the mind is left," he said in the French mind, "suffice to be the police on the right". Obviously, I am not making any suggestion about the police, which is doing its duty properly within the Constitution and its checks and, of course, obeying the political leadership. But in paraphrasing De Gaulle, I would like to say that what bothers you is the country's modern, political, social and economic system. What do I mean by that? You don't mind there being a left-wing government, as much as you mind that the state mechanism will stop being state-owned, being exactly the way I described it before. That's exactly what bothers you more, because you won't be able to operate within this frame. Madam Minister, it is an honor for you, a honour for the government and for us to vote on this bill. We all know very well what happened, what happened with the pre-primary allowances, what we tried over the past few years, how six hundred and fifty thousand people can secure shelter, food, electricity, water, school meals, a small aid to live decently. However, I would like to table an amendment and ask you to accept it. The amendment relates to ensuring the duty-free, inappropriate and inappropriate education and vocational training of the unemployed. What exactly is going on? The education or vocational training allowance paid to the unemployed is free of charge. It is proposed that it be unaccompanied and irreversible in the hands of the State or of third parties, that it should not be bound or offset by certain debts to the tax administration, the State, the insurance funds or credit institutions and that it should not be calculated in the income limits for the payment of any provision of a social or prosperous nature. Who's this about? It concerns, in principle, those of the unemployed who are involved in education and vocational training programmes. Basically, these people refer to population groups of young unemployed, long-term unemployed, unemployed who are close to retirement and unemployed women who are most affected by the economic crisis. Given the government's sensitivity, the writing samples that have so far been shown and recognized by the Greek people and will be recognised and when we reach the polls, I would ask you to accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u128	Mr. Vettas has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u129	Mr President, when shall I say whether I accept it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u130	In the end, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u131	What exactly are you asking, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u132	When will I say whether or not I accept it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u133	If you are ready, and now even after one or two speakers you can take the floor. Are you placed on the other amendments?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u134	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u135	At some point, you can, in the course of the procedure, place yourself on all the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u136	Mr President, can I support an amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u137	You'll talk after Mr. Vetta.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u138	All right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u139	Mr. Vetta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u140	Basic salary reduced by 22% for over twenty-five years, Mr. Brutsi. For young people under the age of twenty-five, a 32% reduction. Frozen maturations, a three-month reduction in the regeneration of the branches, a delimitation of the duration of the collective agreements. Do you know whose name and signature they have underneath, Mr. Brutsi? Do you know who has signed on all this, the abolition of allowances, the reduction of wages?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u141	You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u142	You, Mr. Brutsi. Your signature is yours, Mr. Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u143	You're lying! Shame on you! You're both a liar and a liar!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u144	Mr. Brutsi, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u145	You're a liar and you're irrelevant.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u146	Please continue, Mr. Vetta.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u147	I may be what you're saying, but I wasn't a professional politician, Mr. Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u148	Please do not record anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u149	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u150	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u151	Obviously, we are discussing a dynamic transition of the OGA to a Organisation for Recognition and Social Solidarity. But look, it's not just a transition. It's a restoration of justice, Minister. You said very well before about the Freudian state. This state has made some people comfortable. This state helped some, not of course the beneficiaries, but those who won and won over the pain of the Greek people. Obviously, it is a matter of transparency, and it is obviously a matter of respect for rights. So this initiative - obviously other Member States - Member States of the European Union are implementing such initiatives and such structural reforms - wants to balance and modernise the granting of social benefits with incentives for work. Obviously, social solidarity is not charity. It is the foundation of social cohesion. I was going to read a few other things about reports by the Governor of the Bank of Greece for the year 2016, but I will go further, because I think we have more important things to say. We are accused by Mr Brutsi of a man who chose and left in this country as Minister for some nine hundred or fifty ways of awarding pensions. So we are committed today to the bill we are discussing to promote the basic conditions of social equality for all citizens. It is considered right and, of course, it is also fair for a large part of the social wealth to return to its true producers, namely those who cooperate either as employees or as self-employed to produce it. We have, of course, heard of the great pain of the New Democracy for farmers. Obviously, the character of the OGA was for you. Obviously, it was not for you, too, a major insurer, which the man would have had health care but also worthwhile - I would say - a pension. Obviously, it was pro-active. He's been working too many things. So there are categories of people outside working relationships, and we have to have that in our minds whether they are minors or elderly, helpless - the vulnerable groups we all know. So part of this social wealth must also ensure their own status. The second reason why this bill is in favour of solidarity is the concern we have - and I think that the Greek people themselves have this concern - to protect the social status of all from foreseeable threats, such as poverty, unemployment, old age, disease and immortality. I don't want to talk more about the bill, too many things have been heard. I would like to give some figures, however, which were in place before 2015. In piloting the guaranteed social income - to see the difficulties and the importance of digitisation that we are unfortunately bringing to this country for the first time - in 2014 demonstrated the shortcomings and administrative weakness of the then social administration, both at national and local level. Most of the thirty-two thousand applications, 38% of which were made by women and 62% by men, were submitted by the applicants themselves with the help of friendly accountants. This is very important, because it has resulted in a mass of mistakes. At the same time, the centrally controlled electronic recording system fell very often and went out of operation, thus intensifying errors and increasing many gaps or errors in the data reported in the applications. Overall, only 2% of the JEPs were completed by the municipalities in 13.4%, with very wide variations in the characteristics of applicants from municipality to municipality. I mention all this, to see how important digitisation is and how much this digitisation gives transparency, gives efficiency and gives - if you like - the money where it really belongs. I would not like to say any more, not to abuse time. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u152	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u153	Mr Brutsi, we promised Mrs Papanatsiou.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u154	For a minute, Mr President, I would like the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u155	Please be brief. Here, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Mr President. I take the floor to restore the truth. Because in this Chamber there is a lack of hypocrisy, lying and inaccurateness, Mr President. I am amazed that Mr Vetta, who has quoted a number of elements which are indeed minor situations for the workers of the country. But I'm sorry he gave it to me. I've never reported as Minister for this evidence to my predecessor. They were situations I inherited. But beware of hypocrisy. SYRIZA went out to the government, promising that all Mr. Vettas said would overturn it. And what did he do? He didn't just overthrow them, but he made them worse. He brought the group redundancies - which the previous government resisted - uncontrolled with SYRIZA signature. And that's not all he did. There's a payroll at 327 euros. That's what the workers hear. One out of three employees is with 327 euros. Of course, it is not social policy and we do not share it, Mr President, that you have already abolished - you have already abolished allowances for multitude and third parties. Where's the paperwork?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u157	What have we abolished?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u158	Please, Minister, do not interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u159	The allowances of threeteen, multitasks for thousands, were abolished, protesting. It is certainly not social policy within this bill, that you open the window to uncontrollably fund non-governmental organisations without control. And it is certainly not social policy from last year to this year that you have appointed twenty-seven thousand new civil servants and charged the state budget with 492 million. We went back to his times "you're a friend of SYRIZA, let me appoint you."
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u160	Mr. Brutsi, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u161	That's what we're opposed to. We are opposed to opacity, to corruption, to the state that turns Greece back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u162	Mrs Papanatsiou has the floor to support her amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mr President. My position concerns the amendment of the general number 1477 and of the number 103. The first article and paragraph 1 of the first proposed provision are recast in paragraph 21 of Article 15 of Law 4469/2017- is the law on the extrajudicial support mechanism - in order to further specify the arrangements laid down therein for reasons of legal certainty and better application. Here, we should clarify that, in order to avoid any doubt, the acts already adopted are not affected by the proposed amendment, which is, moreover, fully in line with their content, while expressly providing for their proportionate application and for debts incurred in the tax administration for the benefit of third parties. The second provision of an amendment to paragraph 5 of Article 49 of Law 4509/2017 and paragraph 50 of Article 72 of the Code on Tax Procedure concerns improvements of a legal nature. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, Minister. The parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Alliance, Mr Loverdos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like, as a parliamentary representative, to begin my speech from what is happening these days on the issues of Greek-Turkish relations and, more generally, Turkey's behaviour. Yesterday, we had a meeting in the area of the Change Movement and we identified all parties in the fact that in our communication we should start - sometimes it would be as a matter of urgency - from the necessary position today that there is no doubt under international law, according to all the legal texts that Imia is Greek territory. And this undeniable truth on a systematic basis Turkey is trying to alter it with behaviour from past decades, without succeeding. And he's never gonna make it. This whole story has gone through to avoid wars in a theory of their own grey zones, claiming that they are not yours, but not in claims that they are theirs. And in recent years we have seen an escalation in their attitude, which is unjustified, which is illegal and which, apart from the allegations made by Members of Parliament, Ministers, now, and by their Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is also accompanied by the presence of their military forces. We condemn Turkey, condemn its attitude and point out that this behaviour is not confronted with bias or with the mistakes of foreign policy, as they were from the Erdogan visit, this grand visit, with the great political results that day - day, week - week after that we see the worsening of our relations with Turkey. But that's what we've said. What needs to be underlined at the moment is that with prosperousness these problems are not dealt with and the prostitutions over the last three years, especially in relation to the Imia, have been too many and are still too many. I do not want to go any further on this. It's a big deal. We will have the opportunity to discuss this in the next few weeks, after it has been balanced in relation to Turkey's illegal practice in the Aegean Sea. Now for the draft law, because the debate is uniform, I am concerned about how I will be placed, because I do not know if you have seen the text of the Scientific Studies Directorate, but it tells you a lot and I do not want to waste time on the time I have, pointing out to you issues which it raises and which have to do with the wording of the speech. I will make one - only two points in the course of my speech, hoping that the other practical issues that tells you to have seen and improved them. I would like to stay on something that forms the beginning of the draft law, on the subject of digitalisation, and I will only refer to what was said by Mr Dimitris Konstantopoulos, who also made the report to the committee. My colleague said that it is good to go to the era of the electronic interconnection of the bases of the new agency, the OPECA, with these bases of the AIA and the HICP. Dimitris Konstantopoulos stood positively on what forms the beginning of the draft law, and I compare it to a debate that we will have here on Tuesday and Wednesday, with your own behaviour, when the subject of e-prescription was in the Chamber, which you voted against not only, but you also spoke about the people's cheap medicine, defending what you defended at that time. We're not you. On the subject of digitalisation, Mr and Mr verbatim said, I repeat what he said 'our attitude is positive'. For the rest about e-prescription on medicines and the EPPYY and everything else related to the latest misery, I'll see you Wednesday. Now the draft law, however, does not only have a philosophy, it does not only have a general principle, it also has general topics. I take the opportunity to ask a majority member's position. He said to committee: "Development means to us a socially just, socially acceptable and socially rewarding development for many with respect for the environment and for industrial relations, through the development of a strong state of social protection". That's what he said to you in the majority. And I see in your three-year tax reduction policy, successive pension cuts - we have seen them many times here, and they are more than twice as high as those made in the first few years of the memoranda - an increase in insurance contributions to farmers and freelance professionals, the abolition of the CSCE for low-retired people, a reduction in luxury allowances in three-tiers and multiple-tiers, the abolition of widowing pensions or micro-corrections in Uya, following the protests of the parties, Mrs Gentimas, our proposal of law and above all of the people who were interested in your unsuccessful policies. And I do not want to go specifically to my colleague, but I ask him: is he, within him, balanced when he expresses this position of principle? Where did the social state find it? I will agree with Mr Giannis Vroutsi on what constitutes your strategy after three years. You said that right, colleague. I don't hesitate to agree when I hear this right with anyone, but especially with you, who have experience with the Ministry. Look, Mrs. Fotio. We have been facing a dilemma at the first time that the crisis has broken, what a model - the modern models say, I like the Greek word - economy will build during the crisis so that it can function afterwards. With regard to the imported model, especially from specific aspects of conception that have nothing to do with social democracy and neo-liberalism, but have to do with structured state views in Europe, and in any case in America, we were dealing with the suggestion for standard societies of the two fifths, three fifths, four fifths, and societies which have one fifth, two fifths, two and a half fifths, people unable to enter the economy and the social life of the place facing them with allowances. We rejected this model and rejected it consciously. The fact that we were maintaining the ESS, trying to find equivalent in other areas, was a very conscious effort not to cross into the society of allowances, not to live those that are brought us from the minds of the states that have this experience, even from art, from the theater, from cinema. We were trying to keep a society of middle classes, that is to say, relatively or more happy. We fought for this, and we managed to keep this until at least 2014 and reject the abolitions of the CSCE, to disprove the society of allowances, to do the good, that is, to develop a specific relationship with some part of the electorate. It is wrong, from top to bottom, that policy that you are following: contributions as taxes, taxation on Maximums and for those who become wastes of life a allowance to say a good word about us and to be relatively happy. This is the wrong model and should be overturned as soon as you leave the country's governance. It's gonna be hard, because things get trapped as long as the years pass. However, it will be an effort that should be made to get Greece back to its measures - not to things too much - in a country that has a majority society of happy. Now, I want to ask you a few questions. What you're saying - why did I read it, I wasn't here, I'm not a committee member anymore - about what's going on in the community centers you know all about? You're supervising Minister. You must know. Is the briefing you have from your services sufficient? Have you spoken to the workers in the first pillar of the national mechanism, where are the community centres? Have you been mentioned the real problems they face in their daily operation? Do you know, for example, that the three-registered platform or cross-registration system you mentioned does not exist in any of the two hundred community centres or pilot centres, but the officials have heard that this will happen at some point? That's what they say. Am I wrong? Am I so wrong? What's the truth? Do you know that workers in community centres consume, as they say, 90% of their time to carry out applications for social solidarity income? Finally, do you know that workers are acting in support of OTA social services, implementing already existing municipal social policies? So you're trying to move in the same way. We have an advantage in this debate and our criticism. We have the advantage that we voted for community centres and I remember it as now and at times much harder times when it comes to the conflicts within this House. We have voted for them and supported them, because we support the institution. However, we cannot monitor their malfunctioning or support it and do not understand it. So make sure that the purposes for which you have spoken are fulfilled, because otherwise we can say that what you do are characterised by mammothisms that are never acted upon, from the removal of income - obviously results from everywhere - from the construction of client networks - I say this more politely than was said before - and from an administrative mess. These are what should be your concern so that when you deliver the community centers, they have a relatively efficient function and presence. Ladies and gentlemen, I am closing my speech with a point: it is a matter of experience and personal ability to keep your opposition tone high, be the one you believe to be within the National Representation and look at your political opponents, forgetting some other things when you exercise your duties. I uphold this rule in my political life, but also in my professional life, as a lawyer. That does not mean I forget what's going on while I'm talking about it. And, ladies and gentlemen, I promise you that on Wednesday, when the hour of my speech comes, some mice will run to hide, but they will not hide! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u166	Before giving the floor to the next speaker, I would like to make three announcements to this House: Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, eight students and students and four educational attendants from the Greek school of Gothenburg and Boros Sweden. Also, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, sixty-eight students and students and five educational attendants from the 1st Eleftherios Cordeliou Thessaloniki. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Also, the Ministers for Environment and Energy, Home Affairs, Economy and Development, National Defence, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Foreign Affairs, Economic, Culture and Sports, Maritime and Island Policy, as well as the Deputy Minister for Environment and Energy, today, 15-2-2018, draft laws: 1. ‘Principle of the Lease Convention between the Hellenic Republic and the company ELLINIKA PETRELIA ANONYME to grant the right of exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons to the land area ‘Arta-Preveza’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. "Consolidation of the Lease Convention between the Hellenic Republic and the companies "Total E&P Greece B.V", "Edison International S.p.A." and “Greek Petroleum Anonymous Company” for the grant of the right to investigate and exploit hydrocarbons in the marine region 2, Ionian Sea”. 3. ‘Preparation of the Lease Convention between the Hellenic Republic and ENERGEAN OIL & GAS - ENERGYIAKI AEGAIOU ANONYMATIC CONTRIBUTION AND PRODUCTION OF HYDROGONALS to grant the right to investigate and exploit hydrocarbons in the terrestrial area ‘Aithalocarnania’. 4. ‘Principle of the Lease Convention between the Hellenic Republic and the company ELLENIC PETRELIA ANONYME to grant the right of exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons to the land area ‘Northwest Peloponnese’. They shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Mrs. Jufi has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u167	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by saying that the Greek Government has calmly, decisively and lucidly provoked and faces the provocative and aggressive actions by Turkey in the sea, in the airspace, in the Cypriot EEZ, with the aim of declining tension, using all possible routes of communication and response, and I think we should all agree on this. As for the diligences that Mr. Loverdos referred to, I would simply remind you of earlier positions, such as "Putting Hora" or the near conflict in 1996 and the need then to thank the Great Powers. I move on, thinking that there is an attempt to reach agreement between us in the right speech. And I will quote once again the elements of the evacuation of poverty into our country. Today I would say that the rapporteur of the New Democracy was closer to the truth. We had previously heard that this government launched poverty by 10 percentage points. Today, Mr Mitaris, after several times tabling ELSTAT's relevant tables, using them, spoke about a reduction of 0.9%. This, of course, relates to the 2014-2015 programmes, namely the humanitarian crisis law and the pilot implementation of the CRL. In any case, however, he recognised that, with these efforts by the government and not through the general application of policies, we have been able - without we are surely proud, because a very significant proportion of our compatriots are in poverty - to have a small reduction in poverty and we are really very sad that this represents a very small proportion of child poverty. These policies will be continued by a Ministry which in this direction has allocated many critical resources and I will also present the evidence that in 2015, under the Samaras Government, the amount for social welfare was EUR 780 million, and in 2017 it exceeded EUR 1.5 billion and with the countermeasures in 2019, the budget is projected to exceed EUR 2.5 billion. I am also obliged to emphasise again because of Mr Brutsi's position that in 2018 we added from the review of expenditure - this 'incapable' government - EUR 315 million exclusively for the child, to increase by 40% the total family allowances for hot school meals and also to extend nurseries. That's for restoring the truth. I come to this institutional intervention. It has been said by everyone how critical it is that a single principle for the award of benefits, services, allowances and financial assistance is lacking through a unified and up-to-date register of beneficiaries, with an effort to inform the population and have direct access to these benefits, to escape the pluralism and overlapping of the various social protection programmes. How critical this demand is and this body for the world of people with disabilities has been said in many ways and I do not want to insist. I would like to say, however, that this is an important step - because it has been said here that we are just giving benefits - for the necessary transformation of public administration and of the way in which social policy is exercised, for a system for detecting, recording and immediately satisfying real needs, for more efficient management of resources. The electronic file is very important. I would also like to speak here about the amendment tabled by the Ministry, which is also important. In this pilot study of the electronic file, the EUR 46 paradox that exists, as has been abolished for the beneficiaries of the CRL, and I consider it very important and there is a tendency to abolish for all people who will resort to these services. Inside this model, we have set up a central organization, which is OGA, a body with a long time experience to be able to implement it, incorporating new objects and services, but using its structures with its universal structure and its people with very great experience. Allow me here to say two words about the old OGA - it has been said by many - and its loss. It was important to establish him. But what did the former governments of the New Democracy and PASOK do? They had taken care to exclude it from the regulation of Law 3863/2010, which meant that farmers would not receive basic benefits, since it was plunged down gradually until 2026, when it would be completely abolished. Moreover, the same entity had suffered a PSI haircut of more than EUR 0,5 billion. What did the "incapable" SYRIZA do? He incorporated the OGA's needs into the EGF and so there is no reduction in the main OGA pensions. The farmer may enjoy the same benefits as the other insured persons and also ensure the national pension of EUR 384, not the lowest, but as a basis for calculation along with the compensation for farmers. Of course, there are many issues in the agricultural world that they know much better than we do. From that point on, I would say that I am am amazed at the efforts of PASOK to say that the government is taking away powers from local government through community centres. The community centres are part of the social services of the municipalities. Of course, they have been staffed by trained executives with IASP procedures and with a mobilisation of experience and are therefore not Syrians or party army, after being recruited by previous governments. The municipalities therefore have an important real digital age tool and they will certainly need further and further education from there. However, the mechanism exists, and at the same time there is also a single control mechanism for the first time with traceability closures. We therefore call at least on the Democratic Integration to understand this specific answer, because we have said that where these community centres do not exist there will be certified officials from the municipal social services. And since, as they have rightly said, they have voted, we are waiting for their vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u168	Mrs. Jufi, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u169	Yes, I'm closing, Mr. President. I will not go into the issue of the interlocutory for NGOs at all, because I think that only by psychological means can one give an interpretation. And I think the Minister responsible has fully answered this issue. And I conclude - and thank you for your tolerance, Mr President - by saying that I consider this legislative initiative to be an integrated proposal, as the Minister has said, for the reorganisation of the social solidarity sector, without any mediation at the crucial points in the process of awarding allowances. It abolishes the customer relations of the past and gives the weakest social strata the dignity that corresponds to their contact with the state. In addition, the timeliness of the case we are discussing, 'NOVARTIS', makes it absolutely necessary to promote interventions by the institutional shielding of the social protection system and health in order to close those windows that may erupt corruption and interact at all stages of the relationship between the State and the citizen. The current government has the political will, it has set the top goal of combating corruption, but also the institutional weaknesses that this state has. We expect to proceed with cleansing, consolidation and political stability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u170	Mr. President, excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u171	What do you want, Mr. Loverdo? What exactly do you want? You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Mr President. I made a reference to the opinion of the Scientific Research Directorate and in keeping with my time I did not do what I said, i.e. I failed to make a point. Can I get out of here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u173	Here, you have the floor for a minute, Mr Loverdo, because it is Mr Karayannides' turn to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u174	It makes you a number of remarks, many of which are realistic, but for legal matters they have an important role to play in interpreting the rule. However, I want to highlight two cases for seconds. The first concerns workers with the status of private law of indefinite duration, who tells you that they do not reach your own reference to be covered. This must also be regulated by your intervention in the text of the law. Look at it, it's the remark on Article 9. And the second one, for which there can be no objection, is that it makes you aware of Articles 5 and 6 that this mistake is made, that there is a confusion between Parliament's powers. The House is reviewing its Rules of Procedure, but only through the procedures for revising the Rules of Procedure, not by simple law. This is where you intervene in Parliament's Rules of Procedure. You're not entitled. So you need to make some supplements that indicate you. Please see Articles 5 and 6 again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u175	Good. Mr Karayannides has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr President. I want to start with the New Democracy suggestion. I think that this period of opposition from the New Democracy must be the most pleasant of the draftsmen. They have a speech that they are critical of the government with political remarks. The New Democracy's recommendation, if it were a report, if it had been written as an exhibition at school, would have taken from '0' to '2', because 98% of the things that the rapporteur said did not concern the bill. It is understandable, because you do not care about the bill, because you lose your job, but much more it is understandable because of the nineteen speakers who are registered to speak, SYRIZA has seventeen speakers and the New Democracy has one speaker. This is the interest of Officer Opposition for this law! We have also seen in the past how 'preferential' New Democracy was thinking. What we are interested in, however, is the law, which, in my view, makes an incision that few laws have done since post-Civilisation and then in that country. This law now recognizes specific benefits and makes them known to the citizens. First, I would ask the New Democracy if they knew by 31 December 2014 how many allowances they gave. Not even one knew, because during times of election they were mainly interested in caring for social groups and giving them opportunityal allowances. Hence, we have reached about a hundred fifty allowances. None of the New Democracy party would know who they are if they were asked today. Secondly, do you know how many institutions you have in this country that you have financed? Do you know how much money you were giving to these foundations? Have you ever rated the money you've given to these institutions? The answer is very easy: No, no and no. It is therefore, as far as the government is concerned, to criticise what this government is doing. This government is setting up a mechanism which has an impact on society, on the mechanism itself and on the government, on the current Minister but also on any minister in the next few years. Have you come up with that? Today, then, the state can control how many allowances it gives, to how many people, to what geographical areas and social groups it can make and creative policies that solve the problems that give birth to these people in order to get these benefits. That's our logic. It's not a donation logic. We are interested in the social exclusion to stop, not to support it infinitely. We know that capitalism will never stop, but at least keep it getting as short as possible. The social protection net is not a proposal that we write on paper. It's that law. With this mechanism and with this effort we now know which people have fallen into the canvass and we are trying not just to help them, but to give them some way out. Small parentheses: Local self-government was not very happy with community centres, so it was not very encouraging to do so. Now that several mayors have found out how good this is, they do with "tarajum" inauguration and they make press releases, not saying it is a measure of this government and it helps society. So let's go to community centers. Community centres shall not only provide information to citizens on which allowances they are entitled. They also give advice, they give them a course of advice. In Roma, a very exclusive social group in our country for very specific reasons, they give the help to escape the "I make seven children to get benefits". They help them to get in touch with the educational community and join society. You have never been interested in this, because you see it as an election clientele: "To give you 100 euros today, to vote for me tomorrow." That is what goes on today. We take "clientity" from both you and local government. That is why no Member has found the courage to come and say a critical word about this bill. You only have your rapporteur, the parliamentary representative, who is curbing for others, and a Member who came and spoke. Are you going to tell us something about this? You will make a criticism, as the other parties do - whether we agree or disagree - but constructive criticism, which can help to correct things. Will you do it? Oh, no. You don't care. You are only interested in not losing your customers. I must inform you that you lost them in January 2015 and that will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u177	Mr Dedes has the floor from SYRIZA and the Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks will follow. Here, Mr Deed, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u178	Mr President, thank you very much for giving me the floor. But I would ask you to remind me not to shout because the sound of Ethiopia is a little more intense.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u179	I'm sorry, Mr. Colleague, but I didn't hear you. Are you asking me to have more time?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u180	No, Mr President, I am talking about the sound of my voice. Because the sound of Athensis is very intense and tiring to listeners, if I go over the sound and shout, then it's good to tell me to speak a little lower.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u181	It has nothing to do with the intensity of the speaker's voice. Technically, they're at the lowest emission limit from what I've been informed. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u182	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, today I feel very happy and happy to be in this parliamentary group, which is invited to discuss and vote on this bill. Why? For now it seems - and it seems all over the world, but the opposition has not understood it yet - how deeply social this bill is and how much it responds to the Greek people's long-term demands. This government has set up and is even more trying to set up this social state, which was lost in the time of the memorials. We are at the moment trying to support not only this social state, ladies and gentlemen, but also to put it on the right foot, in a legal way, so that all citizens enjoy equal rights. So the extensive effort to restructure the area of social solidarity, which our government is trying to do, and in particular the Ministry of Labour, is continuing today with this legislative initiative. The arrest for the new prosperous state, the new modern state of social protection, is translated into practice by the transformation of the OGA, which was not incorporated into the OPEKA, as a second pillar of the digital prosperous state of social solidarity, after the national mechanism of the two hundred forty information centres for citizens for allowances and services provided throughout the territory. The interconnection between OPEKA and community centres is coming to satisfy the social demand in order to break those prisons that held the citizen hostage of customer relations and bureaucratic pluralism, around the provision of privileges and services. Transparency, which ensures that the electronic environment is used to deal with the citizen, without any mediation, is a development that has long been delayed to apply to our place, failing to ensure the conditions of social care with equal access and uniform rules that, in general, we need today. Every day we are able to relay the government's work, since it is obvious that the systemic means are appropriate to hide the work produced, while at the same time forgetting the responsible work of informing the Greek people and the role they play in the democratic regimes. It is really a pleasure to have our position when we talk about such important reforms that improve the daily lives of the citizens. That is, ladies and gentlemen, our left footprint which we will be asked to explain to the Greek people until the end of our government service. Therefore, having the focus of our concern on man and in particular on vulnerable social groups, we hope that the OPEK will cover the whole range of citizens' implementation, designed under the National Social Solidarity System. With the administrative organisation of nine central addresses and nine regional addresses, in the seats of the respective regions, but also with two hundred and seventy-five employees, the Ministry of Labour has for the first time attempted such an important technological step in the area of social solidarity for electronic data interchange and sample checks, with a view to the reimbursement of allowances to the actual beneficiaries on fixed dates. This was a consistent demand for disabled people to pay the benefits on the same day each month, without enduring bureaucracy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, please allow me to have a little tolerance. The absence of a single register of beneficiaries of all social benefits and services, the lack of information for the reference population, the lack of an information system, the complexity and overlapping of the relevant programmes, recommended the deadlock path and it would be incomprehensible not to be adequately addressed in the context of the treatment of social exclusion, which is a government commitment with a vision of development, with solidarity in the vulnerable groups and a fair distribution of the benefit resulting from it. I don't want to go any further. But, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that Mrs Theano Fotou mentioned at the introductory sitting - and she repeated it today - that the new social protection system is not a memorandum. It's all ours and conception. So we are taking on the identity of reorganising the entire prosperous system. Almost a week ago, we had a visit here by Commissioner Pierre Moscovisi and he gave us two important messages: the first is to get out of the memoranda and the second to alleviate the Greek debt. Also, as just announced yesterday, we don't need to enter a credit line. I am referring to this because I consider the opening point today of the Minister's speech to be the most serious sign that our country is slowly returning to its legislative capacity. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to speak about the opposition superficiality of counter-population - particularly the major opposition - which has already been intensified. This opposition motto, which has recently taken over it, does not even stop in this social bill, which will actually bring many things to the Greek people. I believe that the Greek citizens who are listening to the government and the opposition will assess this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u183	Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, Mr Lazarides, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about another bill which is coming to alleviate the consequences of the disastrous policies of the previous governments. Still, what did we hear? Once again, the opposition came here, swinging the finger and saying: 'No bonus policy' and 'the government does not exercise a good social policy'. But where did the need for some kind of aid policy measures come from? From the destruction of their policies. For example, when they took unemployment from 9% and took it to 28%, should anyone not take care of these people who have been unworked? So, what are we gonna do? Are we going to follow their own sensitivity? When they were asked at some point their top minister in a channel - that I will not forget, it is deeply engraved in my memory - about what citizens who cannot afford to pay their expenses have turned around and said: 'Let their homes be sold'. Is that the sensitivity? That was their sensitivity to the citizens! Unlike this government that is trying and really having succeeded and supported the citizens. Slowly lifting the country on her feet. Slowly getting the economy started. While in their own years unemployment has constantly risen - as we said earlier than 9% - to 28% - to a steady upward rate for five years, for the first time, in the years that this government governs, unemployment has fallen. From 28% he managed and took her to 20%. You know what? The European institutions said that Greece had for the first time the highest rates of unemployment reduction. And we're talking about 2017. Representatives of the opposition parties have used expressions, such as the word'solvency'. It is bankruptcy that they have done, that is to say they have reduced GDP by 25%. That was their ability! Look out! In Syria over the five years of war GDP fell 28%, while GDP declined. These are their abilities. And they are asking again for the Greek people to trust them. Oh, no! The Greek people also have memory, they also have knowledge. They're talking about entrepreneurship. What entrepreneurship? How do they know about entrepreneurship? Two hundred and fifty-two thousand businesses are closed. And those who didn't close, take care of and send her abroad. Even the "BIOHALKO S.A." in Thessaloniki, which is 7% of the country's total exports, has transferred its tax base to Belgium. What were their abilities? Now what are they doing? Do they move the finger? Unless the finger moves in the mirror. Then, of course, they move it to themselves, even at some point. You know, a entrepreneurship had supported these parties, the state-owned entrepreneurship type "SIEMENS", "NOVARTIS" that we will discuss next week. We are the only country in which the ‘SIEMENS’ did not pay any fines. And all this wouldn't be revealed if the United States didn't get in the way. And what was revealed was not revealed thanks to them, but thanks to the United States and their investigations. In the 'SIEMENS' a fine has been introduced for sighting. If you remember, ladies and gentlemen, a fine of 2 billion has been discussed in Siemens. This, after negotiations, came down to 60 million in material or investment, which Siemens would have discussed if she would. That's just so fair! And in the end he didn't pay anything. That was the way it was handled. It was her! And the entrepreneurship they know is this state-owned entrepreneurship. That is why the conclusion is that the Greek people, because they have knowledge, put them in the opposition and will hold them for several years. Because ultimately, being in the opposition also benefits them, because they will slowly learn from this government, but it also benefits the country and the Greek people. Ladies and gentlemen, the government's priority was and remains to strengthen and shield social protection. Evidently it supports the most sensitive social groups and those who have been most affected by the long-term crisis by eliminating the phenomena of mismanagement of social resources in the extremely critical policy area, that of social policy. The legislative initiatives of the Government with the introduction of interventions, such as the distribution of part of the primary surplus in 2017, were precisely the same objective: to support economically weak persons and vulnerable households. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill includes necessary and urgent arrangements, because the OPEKA is a universal successor to the OGA in trying to reorganise social policy in our country. The bill is mainly concerned with the reform and conversion of the section of the OGA, which was not incorporated into the ECA, a new single body for the performance of the privileges, benefits and services of OPEKA, which takes the form of a legal person governed by public law. This body will be a single and modern administrative structure and will manage a system for detecting the real needs of the population, reshaping the social solidarity policies and managing the resources available to reduce social exclusion. So absolutely a positive provision for society, which has designed and implemented the Ministry, is the electronic file for the disabled. This great change will contribute in a variety of ways. It will facilitate and ease our disabled citizens from frequent travel to various services to prove their disability and claim the privileged provision, as is the case. This procedure is now being simplified. The electronic file will put an end to long and painful procedures for people with disabilities. But there is also a better coordination of competent bodies and agencies, the elimination of bureaucracy is being done, transparency and legality is being strengthened, because there is now a single register of beneficiaries of the OPEKA, so that the public can immediately get the answer as to whether or not the allowance is due, but the state is also aware - who have applied, who are entitled to benefits, to what level, etc. And all that electronic. At the same time as the citizen asks, the information will be transferred to the thirteen regions and the Ministry, in order to verify the legality of the beneficiaries, but also to have an image at all times, which will help us to manage state resources properly. Let's see how that happens. We have seen in the chart how community centres are linked to the OPEKA, which is the second pillar. Once the citizen makes the request, after his data has been crossed, he immediately passes to the OPEKA and goes to his addresses, again there is attributed electronically, which also lightens the municipalities from a large rocky rock. In order to ensure legality, transparency and the fight against error and fraud, the competent services of the OPEK shall be required to cross-check electronically the reported information of the applicants. In addition, the management of the Agency may conclude bilateral or multilateral agreements with bodies, bodies and authorities of social protection abroad for the same reasons, while as regards control, there is, of course, an arrangement, as a Special Inspection and Control Directorate of the Agency is set up. Ladies and gentlemen, the new organisation, OPEKA, expresses our intention to a state of social care and social solidarity and is one of the elements of the socially just productive reconstruction of the country that we are introducing from our political goal. In conclusion, I would once again point out that the Government does not stop bringing such measures to relief the social weight and implements a plan with objectives and priorities that meet the needs of the national economy and, above all, society. Before I close, Minister, I would like to ask you to see with sensitivity - because I know your sensitivity - in Article 4, in the case of multiples, the issue of the laundry card. I would like to ask you to remain in the mechanism to which it already exists, namely, as it works and does not have any financialprints, you know, in order to continue operating properly, because people already have many problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u185	We're not removing it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u186	Thank you for your intervention, Minister. Very good, because I know your sensitivity, so please see it. So I'm closing here and thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u187	Thank you. Mr. Kaisha has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, Mr President. From now on, everyone from SYRIZA will be. After all, a speaker was from New Democracy. From this it seems he cares how and why the New Democracy cares! So let's see what we're doing with the bill being passed. We're creating a welfare agency. Every reasonable and normal person would say: "But, so bad it is, to become a body that measures the benefits, who deserve them, who do not deserve them, etc. and thus reacts to the New Democracy.’; The New Democracy has its logic and it reacts properly. Why? Because we're ruining her all the mechanism. Why was the entire grant mechanism based on what? It was based on the customer state. Not only could they not measure the allowances and tell us how much they were up to now, but I in my region knew that the allowances received by each citizen had the name of the Member of the region, for example, "this allowance I had taken out by Cessa". So each MP had his clientele, had his benefits, had his access. He took it off. The congressman was getting the allowance. Now what are we going to do? Let's go make an organisation that's going to be recorded and won't the MP need? What, then, will the New Democracy Members do from now on if they cannot make a bonus or provide a facility? So we all understand what we're talking about, because they're colluding. The old establishment is confusing, the old political system. They know that this is no longer the way the interventions made in society and the citizens are weakened, and that is essential to them. That's why they're reacting, so they're blaming us that we brought it very roughly. I have heard from the rapporteur in New Democracy that we have ideological rigidity. Ideological rigidity is having a body that gives the benefits, counts who is entitled to it, control, have a mechanism that controls benefits? Is that ideological rigidity? Is this about some ideas we're stuck in there? I could say a lot about what the situation was, because I am quite large. In the 1960s, to go as a student and have the right to eat at the students' club in Thessaloniki, the childcare certificate was given by the priest, the secretary of the village and the mayor, the three-member committee. Of course, because the years were difficult you had to have a certificate of social opinions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u189	Did you get it? Did they give it to you?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u190	They didn't give it to me, it doesn't matter. But I know she needed the certificate. I don't claim you stayed there. You have improved the system and the institutions have improved it a lot. But to react today to a opposition party because it wants this state, this country to modernise, to have a system that gives people who need it, I cannot understand it. But because time is passing fast, I want to say two things. Here it seems that these allowances are for poor people, for suffering. Will people with disabilities give an allowance? Unless you claim that you will abolish them if you come to the government. The multitude, the single parent families, will we not support these with benefits? Isn't that a help for you? Aren't we supporting such families? A lot of things the party, SYRIZA, the government, will do through the municipalities. The powers are given there by a pillar of community centres, but also by this second pillar. I think these two pillars will step on and step up the system and we will all be comfortable and happy, because we have created a modern state that will look after the impossible citizen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u191	Mr Stoyannides has the floor from SYRIZA. Two other speakers will follow on the list and then the Parliamentary spokesman of the Centro Association will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u192	Mr President, I would like to speak on an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u193	Excuse me, Mr Stoyannides, with your consent to give the floor to the Minister for a parliamentary amendment. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u194	Ladies and gentlemen, before you, an amendment by the Members of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Stefus, Mr Nikolaos Maniou and Mr Konstantinos Barkas, on the general number 1481 and a special 107 in the draft law - the excellent draft law, if you may - of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, entitled "Mediting the Organization for Agricultural Benefit and Social Solidarity (OPEKA) and other provisions". It is another step towards rationalisation, proper monitoring and justice in the world that has so far had to be manipulated, as the previous speakers have already developed. This amendment, which our Members have tabled, concerns the addition of a new paragraph, paragraph 5, to Article 30 of Law No 4144/2013 on the establishment - and that is the substance - of the inappropriate education and vocational training of the unemployed. This is indeed a necessary regulation to complement the successful grid of protection for the weakest of our fellow citizens. Where the training and training programmes to the unemployed are subsidised, the unemployed people participating in them receive a relatively low level allowance, but for management reasons they are awarded the benefits cumulatively and usually at the end of the programme, after the programme cycle has been completed, so that they exceed the minimum amount of the bank account and then a confiscation against debts which are often borne by our unemployed citizens reasonably and thus do not reach the amount they are entitled to. For this reason, education and vocational training benefits, similar to the unemployment allowance granted by the OAU, the CRL, etc., must be exempt from any tax and from any tax in favour of the public or third parties, not to be granted, not to be seized, not to be offset by debts secured by tax and public debt. We're bringing this improvement. It is a fair request, and through this amendment we correct a distortion, a mistake of the past. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u196	Mr President, this amendment, to which the Minister refers, has not yet been shared. Only the amendment under number 1479/105 has been shared.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u197	Who are you talking about, Mr. Metarakis? Did I just mention her? She's a parliamentarian, and we're waiting for the Ministry, the corresponding one, or the Minister to make it acceptable. Once accepted, he will immediately share with the Members. Mr. Gregory Stoyannides has the floor. I'm sorry we delayed you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u198	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in today's sitting, we are discussing the draft law on "Mediting of the Agricultural Insurance Agency to the Organisation for Preferential Benefit and Social Solidarity (OPEKA) and other provisions". This legislative initiative seeks for the first time to develop a single aid body and a consolidated and up-to-date register of beneficiaries of all kinds of benefits and services, necessary for the creation of a state of social care and solidarity. The Government's objective is to strengthen social protection, eliminate bureaucracy and develop efficient support in vulnerable groups. We are trying to get in order in an area of the public sector such as pre-innovative and not just benefits. To date there has been an absolute chaos, without the Greek State knowing how many allowances are granted to Greek citizens. This draft law introduces the OPECA, which is a single body for the implementation of solidarity policies. OPEKA is a quasi-universal successor of the OGA in all its responsibilities. This makes use of the staff, without any change in the working relationships, experience and existing structures of the OGA, which is evolving and through the OPEKA becomes a lever for the implementation of the policies developed under the national system of social solidarity. You're complaining that the OGA is being abolished. Do you not know that all the insurance funds since 2017 have been integrated into a fund, EKA, while OGA does not exist from 1-1-2017 as an insurance fund? When OGA was founded in 1961 it served certain purposes. After several decades, apparently the conditions have changed. Why do you believe that they should not enjoy the same benefits from the insurance funds once they also contribute to them as all other Greeks? May I remind you that until a few years ago the OGA pension was less than half of the minimum pension from all the other insurance funds? A further body will grant all pre-school allowances, economic aid and economic services to vulnerable or non-university groups. That is how we achieve efficiency, efficiency and avoid delays. On a specific date, allowances will be paid to disabled persons. It was a time-consuming request from the organisations of people with disabilities, so that they too can schedule as everyone else in their lives. A Procurement and Social Services Account shall be set up within the framework of the functioning of the new Agency with financial and accounting autonomy. It is also foreseen that in the event of the death of an uninsured super-insured super-insurance, OPEK is paid to the members of the funeral, upon request, the funeral expenses of up to EUR 800. From the second part of the bill I am mainly standing in the provision for the implementation of a funding programme for the establishment of up to two new parts of infant, childcare or childcare in each municipality starting in 2018. The aim is to create four hundred new sections for 2018. The aim is also to create ten thousand new places in nursery schools. Protection of family and maternity and childhood is a constitutional requirement. We are therefore giving assistance to the municipalities to increase the accommodation places for children of pre-school age. The financing costs of the programme will be covered by appropriations from the Staff Regulations of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity. I am also referring to Article 53, which provides for the retrospective repayment of workers' wages in social welfare centres, in particular for those employed in exceptional days and overtime or night work. Finally, the process of proving the Romani language and local language is institutionalised, and the scheme of grants to legal persons under private non-profit law who provide social care services and the implementation of the annual campsite is redefined. Finally, I should like to say this: I have heard the new Republic's rapporteur talk about the eruption of part-time work. But he forgot to tell us that parttime was legislated by the New Democracy in 1990. The work jungle in the private sector was brought by New Democracy with the 6th PHS on February 14, 2012. We have an anniversary. We've been closed for six years! You have reduced the minimum wage from EUR 751 to EUR 586 and to EUR 511 for young people under twenty-five years. You guys froze the three years in the private sector. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Finally, you have effectively abolished collective agreements by changing the legislative framework in force since 1990. I call on you to vote in favour of this bill, because it is another step towards modernising the public system and it is in favour of all citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u199	Mr. Michaelides from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u200	Ladies and gentlemen, we are not surprised today by the attitude of the Officerial Representation, namely that since the beginning of the sitting few Members have been present - at the moment - and there is a reluctance to place Members in the bill we are debating today, the fact that the few speakers who have been put before the government have been severely attacked by the government, including extreme populism, false - even crocodile tears have been shed in this Chamber - on the fact that it has been 'disappeared', says the OGA. They even remembered the late nation’s ruler. At all events, I repeat, we are not surprised by this practice, because it is well known that a pillar of the client state in which they were leading and which has been supporting their customer relations all these years. So for us, things are clear and they do not surprise us at all. Let me now turn to the substance of the bill. The bill we are debating and voting on today is necessary and important for three reasons, in my opinion. The first is the provisions it lays down in its own right, namely the development of the OGA into an Innovative Benefit and Social Solidarity Agency, which will now be a single principle of the reimbursement of allowances and will become one of the main pillars of the new welfare and social policy. Secondly, the importance of the bill lies in the fact that the creation of this new organisation is a key link between the reform of the social state currently underway by the government, a model, that is, social state, which reflects the aims of the left and which seeks to strengthen and strengthen institutionally the principles of social justice, solidarity and rationality. Thirdly, this bill is important because it exactly symbolises the transition to the new social state that we have started to create, gradually dealing with the pathogens and weaknesses of the existing model. I am going to refer to one or another of the three reasons I have described and allow me to begin with the latter, precisely because this means that the importance of the reform that we are voting on today can be adequately interpreted. I do not intend to devaluate the welfare state that has been built up in the country since the crisis. It is well known that the process of construction of the social state began in the early 1980s and became undeniably - and we must admit it - some important steps forward in its formation and enlargement. But it is widely accepted that the Greek social state long before the outbreak of the crisis was characterised by disharmonies and structural diseases. Who were these? First of all, the low cost of public expenditure in relation to the European average. Secondly, in addition to the issue of relatively low funding mentioned above, the Greek social state suffered a series of structural distortions, which have emerged many from the scientific community involving a lack of strategic planning, the internal cohesion of the system, and, above all, a lack of coordination between them. The combined effect of these two characteristics, i.e. incomplete funding and customer mode of organisation, was ineffective in the essence of the social state. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need two more minutes, Mr. President. Several studies based on European Union statistics demonstrate the unprecedented European data inability to reduce the poverty rate, even when expenditure increased. I think today that we are achieving, first and foremost, the legalisation of a mechanism for national coordination and evaluation of social inclusion and social cohesion policies, the front of which is more than two hundred already operating community centres, the universal application of the Social Solidarity Income, the great increase of vouchers at school stations and the extension of the programme of school meals. All this contributes to the more than doubled welfare budget, of the 790 million that we received from him in 1.8 billion for 2018. With the successful operation of the two pillars of the new social protection system, a number of objectives will be achieved. Let me briefly mention them. It will put an end to a regime of pluralism and opacity. Access to social protection is facilitated for all. Information and service for citizens are upgraded. Groups and citizens facing the range of poverty and social exclusion are successfully identified and better coordination is achieved, as well as monitoring and evaluation of policies being pursued. I therefore believe that the functioning of the OPEKA will make a decisive contribution, without, of course, being the only possible treaty, to building an effective social state, that is, a social state that will protect everyone and at the same time improve the position of most of the weak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u201	Ms. Big housekeeper from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u202	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we must not forget that today, February 15, is the International Day against Children's Cancer. We must wish these children the battle of their lives would go well. This is an important day and I mention it, since today we have a bill from the Committee on Social Affairs. I would like to refer to today's bill. I have heard too many colleagues regret the fact that OGA became OPEKA and that. I think they've probably taken the elixir instead of the youth of amnesia. Did NOVARTIS also find this and they haven't prescribed it to us yet? I say this because they don't check how we got to this stage, how we got to need social benefits, etc. So let them remember how we arrived. When they lowered the minimum wage from around 700 euros and took him to 500 euros and pensioned at the lowest point, when the gifts, permits, etc. were cut, every Greek citizen will definitely need an allowance to survive. Let us not, let us not eat them, need no allowances, nor OPEKA nor OTA. And when the Agricultural Bank provided the loans without guarantees, with a "air", did they not understand that there would be no Agricultural Bank and Rural Insurance and all farmers? But then it was a "father-air"! Anyway, let's go to the bill. That is what I wanted to say without mentioning the bill. I think it is important to convert the OGA to OPEKA, to an Innovative Grants and Social Solidarity Agency, because in the last two years, as far as I am concerned - and it is my first speech in plenary by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, and I am very pleased about that, especially because the bill is social affairs - we are trying to have a reorganisation of social policy. In this context, I consider it necessary to manage all benefits, family allowances, disability benefits, as well as to strengthen vulnerable groups, benefits to uninsured older people, rural areas programmes. To date, this whole institutional framework has been obsolete, unorganised and did not represent the modern requirements of the time. The citizen was relying on allowances, as other colleagues have said - because I have lived with it - on every Member of the region, on every mayor, on local government, on priests, on ministers and on what one could imagine in a space. They also had an I.D. - what you said - a congressman, a hierarch and he goes on to say. The important article I consider to be Article 6 on the composition of the new Board of Directors. the OPEKA, which provides for the representation of social groups receiving benefits. The representatives of the beneficiaries will thus be able to express directly the problems and needs of the persons entitled to benefits. The responsibilities of the administration of the new organisation, as well as staff issues, are described in detail. It is noteworthy that all OGA workers' positions are maintained, as well as that OPEK takes over the secondments, appointments and transfers made in accordance with Articles 9 and 10. Also very important for issues of transparency and good public administration are the establishment and operation of a modern and efficient internal audit section. The demand for public administration without arbitrary action is indeed made. This is the most important point, namely that the administration should be inspected internally and that it cannot do anything arbitrary. The new organisation, which will manage the benefits as a whole, will have huge benefits. On the one hand, the system will easily identify incidents of an attempt to defraud the public through false declarations and certificates. Let's not forget that in Zakynthos we had blind ones with a taxi driver's license. On the other hand, the procedure for processing applications will be quicker and therefore the beneficiaries will have to deal with minimum bureaucracy for the first time. Because I, as a businessman, know how much red tape there was. However, the breakthrough is also the interconnection of the OPECA with the community centres - Article 48 - so that the citizen can have direct access to information on the benefits he is entitled to and at last feel - I say it and I mean it - that the state is close to him and that it is not against him. He doesn't have to fight the state, but he thinks it's his assistant. Finally, it is very important that Article 51, which refers to the establishment of new nursery and childcare departments. Especially today, in our difficult times, it is necessary to increase nursery and childcare facilities, because everyone who wants to keep their jobs needs some help. We have so far been subject to the good will of grandparents, grandparents, if they exist in life, and if they can cope with a child’s obligations. It's important that the nurseries are made. Article 47 also provides for the creation of an EMO, i.e. a consolidated OPEKA register. This will provide an electronic record of all the beneficiaries of preferential benefits and identify them through an interface with the applications of the General Secretariat of Information Systems and of the HR. This will all be done through transparency of administrative action, by guaranteeing the public interest, but also by the clear picture of the beneficiaries, the amounts and, where appropriate, the unpaid benefits. Each beneficiary with this platform will be able to control them on his own. I also agree with Article 57. For the first time, there is an effort to testify to the language or dialect of the Roma. To date, incidents are known from false statements by people who have said that they are familiar with the language. The possibility of selecting the appropriate candidate is now introduced by means of an examination by the committee responsible. Finally, Mr President, I am going to need your tolerance for a minute - with regard to the Ministerial Amendment number 1478 and with special number 104, I will say that it is absolutely essential to provide for remuneration for doctors who assist in the Committee on the Health of CSR. The committees must work properly and quickly so that the relevant certifications can be given without delay. Thus, we will have an agency, OPEKA, that can manage the very difficult issues of social security and, in general, of our social surroundings. I hope everything's going well. We will understand that when it is implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u203	Before giving the floor to Mr Saridis, Mr Fotou called for the floor to come up with some legislative improvement. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u204	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to table some legislative improvements. in Article 9(3), the words ‘of period 5’ shall read ‘in case 5’; In point 16 of Article 42, after the words ‘Or TE Administrative-Administrative’, the words ‘or TE’ shall be deleted. In paragraph 7 of Article 49, after the words ‘for the granting of the pension of an uninsured ultraviolet’, the words ‘other than from the 1st day following the entry into force of this month’ shall be replaced by ‘other than from the 1st of the following month of the entry into force of this month’. in Article 56, ‘1’ is deleted before ‘H.8 of Article 5’. in Article 45(1), the words ‘regardless of their fault’ shall be deleted after the words ‘reported to the people’. The second subparagraph of paragraph 1 of that Article shall be added as follows: ‘If they are not returned, they shall be searched in accordance with the provisions of the CED.’
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u205	I would ask that the above-mentioned legislative improvements be distributed to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u206	Mr President, I would also like to support two amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u207	Please, Minister, you can continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u208	We have the amendment under the general number 1478 and specific 104. It's ours. We sign it by Mrs Ahtsoglou, Mr. Tsakalotos, myself, Mr. Juliarakis and Mr. Petropoulos. It was late. He's been posted since last night. I think a number of people have been mentioned. One is that it abolishes EUR 46 for all those who will be examined by the CSR. Secondly, it provides special compensation for the members of the health committees, the doctor in particular, who assists the three-member committee in the CSDP. I repeat that the three-member committee decides alone on the disability rate. The fourth doctor assists without deciding on the disability rate. This concerns exclusively the worker's ability to live in everyday life. Finally, we are extending the duration of the 'House and Reintegration' programme. It is an important programme for the five hundred families of people with housing precariousness. To these people we find shelter and work. It has been the programme that has been running for three years. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, Minister. Mr Ioannis Saridis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, this is the second time I have been speaking from the Step of the House and addressing a SYRIZA audience, as if I were actually speaking to the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group. This, you know, is an extremely bad phenomenon. The OGA, ladies and gentlemen, has been a tool for the exercise of a micro-participatory policy of a subsidised nature, as has all the insurance funds in our country, which, as is well known, have been used to maintain the client state, serving only voting purposes before they are looted and eventually plundered. That's the truth. Who can question that truth? What wing of the House can question this reality? Which party of the Greek Parliament could support the opposite? It is important, ladies and gentlemen, at this critical time in particular, that we rely on our truths so that we can draw useful conclusions and make use of them. So one of these conclusions is they found and did it. All of them, all of them, none of them, all those who took down the Greek taxpayer, found and did it. When the insurance funds for years were managed by the practice "shoot dogs, alskees", it is not to wonder where so many people were found, so great that they could exploit this situation and get rich to the detriment of the Greek public. As the past has shown us, the recipe of the client state is simple and easily practicable: perforated laws needing 'blocks', unclear provisions to make them clear, providing overpowering the ministers to pass all through their office, night-based amendments and legitimisation with opaque procedures and procedures sometimes 'to keep us out'. Did we have them or didn't we have them in the Greek Parliament? Do we have them or do we not have them in the Greek Parliament? Just to think that a Memorandum of Understanding has forced us to be permanent in the Secretary-General of the Ministries in order to have a continuity in the state, which should exist to abolish the immediate contact of the Minister with his constituents. In this country of 2018, we were brought to the attention of the foreigners. In these circumstances, therefore, no one has fallen from the clouds of the 'NOVARTIS' scandal. They're shocked, he says, everybody. But what shock are we talking about right now? The real shock, ladies and gentlemen, was that when we saw the funds collapse, the country went bankrupt and the memorials succeeded. This does not, of course, change the fact that they are literally ungrateful many of what they saw the light of publicity. I am referring in particular to the very large number, to the thousands of doctors allegedly involved in overregistration, counterfeiting, scientific studies and generally described in the pleadings as greedy, cynical and ruthless traders, exploiters of human suffering. I accept from the outset that not all of them could be corrupted. But when a practice is carried out to such an extent and presents to such a great extent, ladies and gentlemen, the real problem lies elsewhere. It was the same system that allowed the necessary conditions to thrive on these anti-social behaviours, which we have come today not just to touch the domestic political system but to lead it to a complete redeployment. This is the political responsibility that is maintained, you know, unreserved in the consciousness of all Greeks. There is nothing to be described, gentlemen, by the collective memory of the citizens, neither by the articles of the Constitution nor by the conclusions of the committees. Citizens know, they know. Soon the Rules of Confidential Law, the Law on the liability of Ministers and its possible interpretation will be dealt with here once again. But what, in my opinion, we should be sitting here and discussing frankly is how and why our democracy allowed us to get to this point where we have arrived today, how, when and when the institutional security disputes failed, where they existed, were there. Today's law, the law we are discussing today in the Greek Parliament, would be much better if its authors had a serious finding in their hands, explaining in every detail what mistakes we have already made in the planning of social security and in the formulation of policies and what we learned as a political system from these mistakes. Perhaps we would not have reached this point, and we would have considered an amendment so important, which, in fact, we as the Central Association will be voting in favour of, the amendment with a general number of 1478 and a special 104, which corrects a small unhealthyness, as the doctors who participate in the health committees and the doctor who assists in the CEPD health committee will be paid for from now on. At the same time, with the same amendment, people with disabilities are exempted from the obligation to pay the offence concerned, and the government proposes - and very well - that the very important 'House and Reintegration' programme. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill under discussion is to a certain extent a derivative of the memoranda, and I would say, by-product of the commitments we have as a state. At the same time, however, there is also a very important social need, the management of welfare policy, with a view to strengthening the social state. This is of particular interest to those who continue to try to maintain social cohesion and to avoid imposing meaningless dividends between the social groups. This is clearly seen in the positive provisions of his articles and also in some parts of his explanatory statement. Of course, there is no shortage of black points and problematic wording. But I really wonder how many of these would be here today in plenary, in this bill, if it hadn't come under the urgency procedure. This is a very important bill, which should be presented in detail and diligently to our fellow citizens, as it aims to be one of the strongest foundations in the rebuilding of the social state on the basis of solidarity. I should like to take this opportunity to point out that this is probably the first time that the debate on a draft law in this Chamber under the urgency procedure did not start with the objections made by Officer Opposition for the procedure. This is another proof that topicality has also been imposed on parliamentary life, and that can only have bad results. Ladies and gentlemen, we are actually discussing today about the country's new insurance system and what exactly it can mean by a social state and how we will give meaning, value and content to words solidarity, welfare, social cohesion. The bill gives weight to what is needed, such as digitisation, the operation of information centres, the very important effort to integrate the Roma. We all know that these are very important, as they affect the daily lives of our citizens, the quality, I would say, of our democracy. But unfortunately, the attention of the citizens today that we are talking about is somewhere else. They are looking towards our eastern borders, making some very worrying thoughts and expressing reasonable questions. Ladies and gentlemen, what kind of defensive line is the choice of questioning representatives of the political system the existence and functioning of the rule of law in Greece? What is our permanent and clear answer to Erdogan at this time, every time he threatens us and causes accidents in this way, asking for the extradition of the eight Turks on our territory? What are we trying to do? Are we giving people the right to question that Greece is a rule of law? Is that a serious argument? Is this a serious opposition? After all, from Turkey, we know what to expect. It is not surprising to anyone, nor to the members of the Armed Forces, that Turkish aggression, which I once again condemn from this Step. But the real questions are about us, about what we will do, about whether we allow this division. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with rapid geopolitical developments, whether we like it or not. The political message of the Centro Association, what remained to be described as insistence on forming a co-operative government, is shown by developments that were documented, honest and reasonable. The country needs the cooperation of the political forces now more than ever. Unfortunately, however, the threats that are being launched in the last few days to the left and right from the remote windows and the websites from the anticipated parties' representatives, as well as aggressive behaviours, lead to mathematical accuracy in depreciating public dialogue and thus any attempt to reach agreement, every consensual initiative becomes unrealistic and therefore doomed to failure. Ladies and gentlemen, the times require us to work together. If we make the mistake and do not agree, then I fear that this will be the biggest of the mistakes the domestic political system has made and perhaps it will also be a fatal mistake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u211	Mrs Stamatakis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u212	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today under the urgency procedure has been prepared for some time not only by the Ministry but also through individual arrangements that we have sometimes voted on. Already part of the OGA with the insurance part of the bill that we voted some time ago, was transferred to the FBI. The establishment of the OPECA is the reorganisation and upgrading of that part of the allowances left in the old OGA. It is another modern step for the social state to intensify social policy, to systemify, to become more transparent and fairer. It is the second pillar of the new digital social state. The first is the National Instrument for Coordination, Monitoring, Evaluation of Social Integration and Social Cohesion Policies, with two hundred community centres in the municipalities, which informs citizens of their rights to benefits or services throughout Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, since 2015 the SYRIZA Government has set as the first aim the consequences of the humanitarian crisis, a crisis that has come as a result of the tension of social inequalities due to the economic crisis but also of a broken social state, which has left the helpless civilians unarmed. In previous years, the policy pursued was problematic in many respects and fragmentary, as it did not tackle the problems of vulnerable groups. There was pluralism. Many times citizens could not be informed or made use of their rights because of huge bureaucracy. There was a bad division, and this problematic system was called upon to distribute the few resources, since the last budget of the previous governments gave 2.2% for social policy almost half of Europe's average. In the context of modernising and implementing a framework of transparency and social care with uniform rules and equal access, the new organisation is a single principle for the award of allowances and assumes a set of benefits to support the family and vulnerable groups. Includes child benefit, the social solidarity allowance, the social solidarity allowance for uninsured over-ages, the granting of insurance capacity, even funeral expenses in cases of death, the benefits and services of rural software, the allowances to disabled persons and the positive references made to this bill by the Federation of Persons with Special Needs are characteristic. It also includes privileged benefits, economic and income aid and social services for the financial support of specific vulnerable groups to unemployed, long-term unemployed, particularly to unemployed long-term unemployed who are close to the pension thresholds. A series of interventions modernise the exercise of social policy such as the electronic platform HICPs, a series of digital tools that make it easier for the citizen, help him to learn what is right and help the state, to record where needs exist and what is not working well. The Minister has already mentioned all these problems in detail and has already tabled amendments to improve them, which will make it easier for those who are entitled to these benefits. For the first time in spite of the commitments imposed, we voted for a significant increase in expenditure and the Ministry made a great effort to protect the family. In particular, there is an increase in family allowances of 40%, corresponding to EUR 260 million in the total budget. The distribution of allowances is being elected on the basis of a single child allowance aimed at supporting low-income families. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like two more minutes, Mr President. So it restores a very great injustice against two children, which is the vast majority of families in our country. Also, a number of provisions regulate the procedures and limit the enormous suffering and the long-term expectation of disabled people for the benefits they were entitled to. It is therefore urgent to set up this mechanism as well, which will enable us to implement what we have done so far and which will provide facilities, better quality of life and a sense of security for citizens. Once again, the Civic Opposition, which has ruled the country over the last fifty years, with crocodile tears trying to disorientate the debate to cover its enormous injustices and responsibilities. We're not moved by these tears because we know what they're trying to cover and hide. We move forward in the social interest.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u213	The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Mandas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u214	Ladies and gentlemen, when about two years ago in a debate with the Minister she shared with me her vision of the National Social Solidarity System in very difficult times, I really didn't think we could be in this position today. With today's bill I think that a very serious step is taking, what we are not yet aware of, in this reform whose ownership not only has no problem having it, unlike many other things we have said that it is not our property, it is not our programme. I think this is a moment of justice, I would say, for the work of too many people not only from the Ministry's political leadership but also from many people within the system itself - and indeed the Minister mentioned and thanked them - that we are finally coming to a new landscape for the National Social Solidarity System. Allow me to say this, because we must remember that, as in the health sector there have been fundamental changes in a particular historical time when we all appreciate them with what they deserve, so we must remember this day. I think that the seal that comes in, the print that will be in place with this bill, will be extremely important for the next few years, not to say in the next few decades. I say this without exaggerating, because I am very closely aware of the work that has been done and of the persistence of this particular ministry and Minister in his objectives. That is why I have no doubt that, despite the difficulties that this transition has - and indeed is having - we will be in the next day in a transparent, digitised public National Social Solidarity System. My sense is, therefore, that there are very miserable voices which, in particular, are criticising and impoverished, perhaps losing some 'private' benefits, one would say, intervention in a very sensitive area. That's what this is about. In fact, with this bill, the umbilical cord of the relations of the political system with what was manned, developed, launched as a client state over the past few decades. We all have experience in this, and I don't think we need to hide, because it was something that troubled and continues to trouble Greek society and the Greek public. I think that all the people who see it in a substantial way in the next few days that our administration, our state - and especially the social state - must reasonably support it. That's what I think is about the bill. I repeat that the print will be very positive, it will be very important for the next long time. I am sure that this will begin to be experienced by all the people in need - all of us, that is, the entire population of our country - from these services, particularly in situations that are difficult, which are sensitive to emergency situations. That's all I had to say about the bill. Let me say two, three other things, in relation to issues that have been raised in this debate today and I think they contain many inaccuracies, little truth, and in the end they make a mixture of great lies and distortions. Let's go one. There was a position that says that social expenditure in the budget was reduced. I don't know, Mr. Rapporteur of the New Democracy, where you got the evidence from, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u215	From the Treasury budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u216	Wait, I'll tell you, I'll explain. Firstly, only the CRL and family allowances make a budget of over 1 billion. The second is, did you calculate the contributions of about 650 million civil servants that changed in 2017 and went to the EKA column. Because I'm trying to find out, how you figure out exactly the social costs. That was something that applied in 2017 in this column was transferred and this is an accounting transfer, but I do not think there is any serious approach that claims that this government has reduced social costs. If you want to talk separately about the insurance system, that's another story there. Let's go a little bit further. A lot has been said. Some of these have already been answered. I will also say a few things in addition to flexible forms of employment, both in terms of wages and unemployment and Brain Drain. Let me start from Brain Drain. We have done and made a very systematic effort in relation to this problem. The data reported here that Brain was tripled is a company 'ADECCO' survey, if I'm not mistaken, which shows some percentages and says that since 11% in 2014, the rate has increased to 33%. That is what Mr Brutsis said as a tripling of Brain Drain for SYRIZA days. That's not the case. That's an investigation. I invite you with your scientific competence to see it, see how he asks, what exactly he asks and what results he makes. I know what I know and put it at the National Representation is that we made a series of interventions and mainly increased the percentage of GDP for research and there we did the RDEC, which we gave young scientists, firstly, not to leave and secondly, to return. We already see this practically. I will tell you about a sector where I have a great deal of experience in the notices on new permanent posts of doctors in the National Health System. There we see dozens, hundreds of biographics from our fellow Members, who under certain conditions were found abroad and now want to return. If you want, we should also have in the Committee on Social Affairs or any other committee a systematic debate on this crucial problem, where we need to unite forces. It is not a field of controversy, and this is even so cheaply confronted. It is a very serious problem and I again say that we must unite forces there, so that we can, in fact, be able to bring this very considerable potential of the country that has left in the years of the crisis to return. Secondly, with regard to unemployment, to make it clear, what are the real figures here? According to ELSTAT unemployment in September, October and November remained stable at 20.9%. He didn't grow. What Mr Brutsis and the New Democracy are not saying is that he delivered unemployment to 25.8%. In other words, in the years of SYRIZA's governance it has been reduced either you want it or you do not want it, by five percentage points. It seems a little paradoxical to me that Mr Brutsis should criticise this level, that is, that the Civic Opposition or other aspects. I'd say he'd be the last person to do that. On his day - I do not take all the peak that had arrived but the total level - from 25.3% in 2012 delivered to 25.8% in January 2015. As for flexible forms of employment - Mr Stoyannides has said so, which I see in the background - first of all, we must agree on what size we are talking about. In all employment on the basis of the elements of the 'ERGANE', the full-time ratio with flexible forms of employment - as a whole, again - is 70:30. In the new recruitments, it is, in fact, 40% full and 60% partial. But again, I say that in such a huge problem we have as a country on these issues, we must speak with the whole truth. We're not celebrating. We know the problem. We are doing a very serious and very systematic effort in many other areas. But when we discuss these issues, I think we should say the whole picture. I'm trying to say the whole picture and everyone is judged by it. I should like to refer to the farmers' insurance contributions, because this has also been the case. The base for the calculation in 2018 is, in fact, a basis on which social security contributions are not deducted from the previous year's social security contributions. At the same time, however, in the above base for the calculation of insurance contributions, which, as noted, comprises social security contributions for the previous year, a substantial 15% discount is applied for 2018. At the same time, for 2018, there is an increase in the contribution rate of 2% for the main pension. That is to say, the monthly increase of EUR 8 from EUR 87 to EUR 95. This increase in the contribution, which, in fact, exists in this year's amount, concerns the vast majority of farmers, by about 83% as a percentage, who will pay the minimum levy this year. But that's what you have to compare to something else, so you can see a result. We must therefore say here that, in relation to the previous system, the calculations of insurance contributions and the automatic transition from the third class to which they belonged more than 60% of farmers, the fourth class which would belong in 2018, the majority of these farmers with the new system will pay substantially less than 26.9% for 2018, compared with what they should have paid if the former regime still existed. Apart from the fact that there would be no rural pension in depth in a few years' time. It wouldn't actually exist. I shall conclude, Mr President. I would just like a minute in relation to the issues that have arisen in the area of foreign policy in general and in particular in relation to Turkish provocation. I would also like to say from the Step forward of this House - I think all the political forces are in agreement here - that there is no way, we can negotiate or discuss any issues relating to the territorial integrity of the country. We are in this vertical position, as we are also active in keeping the channels open - that was the role of Erdogan's visit - so that we can play our role as a force for peaceful coexistence, friendship and co-development with all the countries in the region. That is why the Greek Government's initiatives and on the other hand relations with the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia are very important. There we are trying - and this is the real national line - to close this loose end with a complex name, time or geographically determined against everyone, and for anyone who understands exactly what is happening on the substance of an area of instability, this is a hegemony that our country can and must do, by closing the fronts from the north, promoting a policy of co-development and cooperation, so that it can, in fact, play its part in the region. Everything else, at least at these moments, is unnecessary. We need to understand how critical our country's role is in a very unstable landscape. I imagine we are all with a common front against the provocativeness of the Turkish side. We know for what reasons it is. For internal purposes of the neighbouring country and other reasons. This is not the issue today to analyse it, but it makes sense to reiterate this firm position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u217	The next speaker is Mrs Katsavria from SYRIZA. Until Mrs Katsavria comes to the fore, I should like to inform the House that after three speakers - along with Mrs Katsavria four - the list of speakers is completed. The intervention of the Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn will be followed, and then we will start with the abbreviations. Of course, on the part of the Ministry, if it wishes, the Minister will close the debate. That's how it's gonna be. That's the data. Mrs. Katsavria, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u218	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the transformation of the OGA into the second basic pillar of social policy into the Procurement and Social Solidarity Agency beyond the specific organisational features that have already been adequately analysed by the majority Members, highlights the conflict between three dominant perceptions. According to this first concept, which is moved by neoliberal representatives and social democrats, a person as a free economic subject is entitled to attempt without social, tax, environmental and other restrictions. The State must ensure the operation of the market in the context of the only effective private economic activity. As to the side effects of this operation are the speculations of Hayek and Milton Friedman along with Adam Smith's invisible hand, which will restore equilibrium to the economy. What does that mean, practically? It means what's social, renounces. It's renounced because it's costing. Everything's a merchandise. Does the child want education? To pay his parents. Does the patient want a doctor or a hospital? To pay. Do the abstract of work need to live a decent life? Let's save him while he was working. Did anyone have the misfortune to be born with any imperfection or disability? There's Caucasus. Is there someone without a job? If he's not lazy, be careful when he was choosing his employer. That is the logic of the free economy, which, of course, is controlled for its theoretical inadequacy, especially now, because full employment is not their main objective. In fact, the aim is the opposite, that is, unemployment at that level that is going to operate as a brake on fair claims and on workers' rights. But because it is a little difficult to impose even on the environment of parliamentary democracy, its representatives have devised the so-called'safety net' for those who really need it. But also the funding for such a safety net will only be done if the state budget can. But what if he can't? Then perhaps a NGOs or a philanthropist or a merciful health dealer, education or insurance. "Everything for the individual", this is the motto of neoliberalism. But when it's the greedy banker who's bankrupt, what happens? Then society's resources are being convicted, to save its bank, but not his victims, who, as we have lived in our country, may also be states whole, because their people have been spending more than their powers. What if neoliberalism collapsed along with Lehman - Brothers? Obviously the ideology of atomicism is not about the poor but about the rich. That's just a little detail. This is, therefore, neoliberalism, the definition of brutal social inequality, injustice and exploitation of human beings, the concentration of wealth from 1% of the world's population. Of course, in its globalised version neoliberalism is the cause of the wars, the destruction of the environment, the hunger and the poverty of the people. However, there is an additional issue with neoliberalism in Greece. It is his sweet hug with state-owned entrepreneurship, his torque to corruption and strife, his climax, his populism and his patrioted rhetoric, his astronomical propaganda and the perversion of reality. Here are two last examples: "The social dividend was only taken by the Albanians and the Roma," while the truth is that the Greek citizens who took it are 92%. "The CRL takes it from lazys" or "the government makes a donation policy with the taxes of householders", while the truth is that they impoverished society with poverty for three million nine hundred and one and a half million unemployed. The second perception is that which does not say to break off from an example that has found a glorious end through its horizontal and isotope character, which collapsed under the weight of its own inability to align itself with the real needs and capabilities of society, which even today considers that an infallible central mind, a central party line, can and must direct society and the economy. The third perception is the one that sees reality, which recognises the possibility and benefits of coexistence between the private, public and the social sectors of the economy, which puts the economy in the service of the social system and through the satisfaction of the individual, who understands that social expenditure is productive and not waste, which promotes social solidarity and human dignity as values which are greater than selfish and consumer pleasure. This third concept is our perception of SYRIZA and our government. We have deserved it with our policy to tackle the humanitarian crisis created by bankruptcy. We come out of the crisis, but with society standing. We deserve it by setting up the new social state and using all those institutional and technological tools, with effective social protection for all vulnerable groups of the population, for people with special skills, for Roma, for child with school meals, for nursery stations, for camps for all families, regardless of the number of children, for the unemployed and for our fellow citizens who are on the verge of poverty. The two hundred forty community centers, the active and clear role of local government, the digitisation of all relevant databases and their direct interconnection and the single management of more than fifty privileges is the first pillar of this policy. Our social policy is directly linked to the prospect of uncertain exit from the crisis and the transition of the economy and society to fair growth in the context of memorandum Greece. Today we are forming the second pillar, the executive arm of social policy, with the conversion of the OGA into OPEKA. This is precisely the issue on which our debate is taking place today. We SYRIZA Members are proud to vote in favour of this bill, because this is our comparative, political and moral advantage in our relationship with the society of many. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u219	Mr. Papaliou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u220	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that the crisis and, of course, the memorial policies have led to a violent transformation of Greek society with the pooring of vast sections of the population. This forced the SYRIZA Government, the Left Government, which has strong social times, to take initiatives and to promote intervention in the area of social solidarity. At the same time, the economic crisis revealed the poor, unfair, inefficient social welfare system. The welfare structures were insufficient, and this was intensified by the budgetary narrowness and austerity policies imposed by the memoranda. Social inequalities were intensified, poverty and social exclusion were and are still on the agenda. In this context, it was necessary in the first phase, to strengthen social protection by methods such as reducing bureaucracy, increasing transparency, combating customer relations and, secondly, to create a coherent welfare system that is a pillar of the social state. In this bill OGA, this emblematic organisation for Greek farmers and the Greek countryside, following the incorporation of its insurance responsibilities into the ECA is transformed into an exclusively privileged organisation and renamed to an Organisation of Promoting Benefits and Solidarity. OPEKA shall be a coherent organisational structure, identifying and looking for the real needs of the people concerned, planning, implementing social solidarity policies within the National Social Solidarity System and managing effectively the resources available to combat poverty and social exclusion. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] The new organisation is a single principle for the reimbursement of allowances and benefits such as the child's allowance, the social solidarity allowance, the benefits to uninsured over-ages, the benefits and services of the rural home account of a social, educational, cultural and recreational nature, the privileged benefits for persons with disabilities, the privileged benefits, economic and income support and social services to support vulnerable and vulnerable groups of the population. In addition, OPEKA is functionally interconnected with the community centres of the municipalities. So what has been said by fellow Members of the Opposition that local government ceases to play a part in social policy, is not true. The community centres will provide up-to-date information material on the criteria and conditions for accession to the pre-accession programmes, the rights and obligations of interested parties and beneficiaries, and also their related procedures. Ladies and gentlemen, development without solidarity and protection of vulnerable groups is not a fair development and cannot, of course, be accepted. The new organization expresses the intention and perspective for a state of social care, which will provide substantial solidarity. It is one of the elements of social fair productive reconstruction that has been promoted and of course has nothing to do with the predictive policies that have been carried out in the past for many years in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u221	Thank you. Mrs Zoe Lebanese has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today's bill is, in essence, the proposal of the Government and of the Ministry of Social Security and Solidarity, for a modern and unified body to become the OGA for managing and awarding to beneficiaries of all the privileged benefits. This is not a mere transfer of competence from the OGA to the OPECA, as the new body calls itself, but a substantial reform that supports the reduction of bureaucracy and the suffering of citizens. Regardless of the approach that the whole political world can have in individual regulations, we can agree that the so far precarious social welfare system was not functional. It caused great suffering to the beneficiaries and their families. It promoted both corruption and clientele relations. The legislative proposal for the development of the OGA to OPEKA significantly reduces the potential for human intervention, imposes the electronic processing of the relevant requests. The concentration of all benefits in order to be managed by a body and the State at all times to be able to know what it gives, why it gives it and what needs it covers should be given. This is another self-evident regulation, but it has never been implemented in practice, for reasons that it is pointless to repeat. It is clear that in this case, as in many others, stagnation on certain critical issues and their irresponsible regulation was more convenient. The current government does not just have the responsibility to get the country and society out of supervision, comitology and crisis. It is clear that this is something that can be done. The bet he has taken is to give a solution to all the issues that led to the crisis, to what previous governments deliberately did not define the rules, deliberately interpret the laws and deliberately form hostages, so that their customer relationship would be inexhaustible. It is worth mentioning the criticism that has been made in relation to the financing of non-public and non-profit institutions with structures and services for disabled people. During the times of the superficial prosperity and the channelling of European resources, many such structures have been created, many of which have covered large gaps in the social state and the welfare state. Many of them have important work to do and prove not useful but necessary. There are, however, suspicions at committee meetings that some of them were founded, they were given status and in fact all they did was to seize economic resources and deprive them of the people with disabilities and their families. These virtual entities were never effectively controlled. There was no control mechanism. Their funding was about automatic. The government decides to set order. Both the community centres and the electronic register of these bodies have this aim to be easy to control. A lot of people are afraid of fighting and doing everything they can to get the government down. Because the more this government remains, the more unfair practices come to the surface. One example is the case of Roma and community mediators. As their representatives in the committee denounced, they were placed in the specific positions of people who had nothing to do with the Roma and of course did not know the language. Speaking for one thing, we should not underestimate the prediction of stabilising the dates for the reimbursement of allowances to beneficiaries. It is tragic that a person who is entitled to an invalidity allowance, not just, not knowing when he will be paid. What has been said about the removal of responsibilities from the IATs is lacking a basis, both because of the operational network developed by the Government with the Community centres and, above all, because you cannot deny the electronic process of processing, on the grounds that this is an OTA competence. If, with the functioning of the OPEKA, human resources are saved in the OTAs, it is certain that they will be able to use human resources in other social services, such as nurseries and others. In all schools in the country, nursery schools and the expansion of the institution of full-day kindergarten and primary school in all schools of the country are one of the most important social benefits of the state to the Greek family and mothers working and non-family. It is important to stress, at every opportunity, that it is extremely valuable for the time that children can remain in a creative and safe environment both for themselves and for their families. Also important is the proposal by the Ministry of Labour and the Minister to regulate the printing of modern and uniform rules for the operation of camps. This is also a very important social structure for families, especially in the years of the economic crisis. A modern social state cannot make exceptions. A modern social state cannot be left to the good will of the people concerned and to the opportunities for access. A modern social state must function independently of the interventions of political people, meet all needs. The problem of the country was not the size of the social state but its ineffectiveness towards the real needs. This is treated consistently and responsibly by the Greek Government. What's fair is done. Finally, I will say the last verse from the poem by Giannis Ritchos "Great poverty" and I want the Minister to hear it and I think she deserves to dedicate it to her: "Their eyes strangely sprinkled and had tight lips. I followed and "me along, and my heart touched their words as a familiar tongue, and I longed, I don't know how to close all with the same affection in the arms." Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u223	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-eight students and students and four educational attendants from the high school of Lefkopigi Kozanis. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Stylus has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u224	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'll be brief. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today the draft law on the development of the Agricultural Insurance Agency in the Organisation for Preferential Benefit and Social Solidarity (OPEKA) and other provisions. What is the reality we come to manage today? We are coming to vote and to be ratified by the Greek Parliament, the government's decision a year ago to close the Agricultural Insurance Agency, the so-called OGA. It was the agency in which the farmers in our country were insured and which they have used to know that their allowances and pensions are given from there. So that's the truth. So we again have the well-known tactics of SYRIZA - ANEL. We're coming with a bill. We are voting on something that will come later, in the future, then. So we've already decided to close the OGA, and then a year later we bring a bill and we close it, we finally put the lock on the OGA. And what do we say about this closure? We tell all farmers, we tell the Greek region that you will now serve, you will trade, you will fulfil all your obligations and you will draw your rights through the EKA. And - since we have new terms and new terminologies - who is the EFCA? The FBI is the old IKA. So, then, we tell the Greek farmer, the one who lives in the mountainous regions, who lives in remote areas, to the one who lives in island areas that you have to go to the IKA stores in the city, to the county to trade in relation to your insurance business. What's happened so far? So far there have been the OGA correspondents where a large portion of our fellow citizens, farmers and producers were served by OGA correspondents, who were employees of the municipalities, who had also undertaken to do this work by the OGA. So we tell farmers to go to the county base. That's transport costs, time to be able to trade. And we are talking about farmers - you know the official figures too - where most are old and do not know how to make use of electronic means. They have learned to be served by living by their presence in the relevant service. It also says today's bill and the OGA correspondents to the municipalities that you will no longer have that competence and that, of course, you will not receive the money you have received for this work. So - and I end up again - the OGA for the entire Greek region. This draft is also confusing. In Article 4, it shall speak of insurance information. So we say to the ECA that all the responsibilities for farmers are now in place, but insurance information will be given by this agency. They'll explain it to us by the government. You also know very well and you and all Greek citizens are aware that OAED is an organisation which gives a number of benefits managed by this organisation. Is there going to be a duplex and duplex again when you're building a new organism? Here comes the custom of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government to create additional unnecessary state structures, where they will need to be served and we will have to build a new series of contractors from hostages, so that we can blackmail them for vote in the future. On page 73, the bill refers to the creation of a training, organisation and simplification of procedures. How's that working out? Other benefits in respect of OAS, other allowances in respect of the new OPEKA organization, other insurance responsibilities from there, and education department and again confusion here? So how will citizens know, where should they respond? Your own bill refers to a expenditure control section, which exists both at the Rural Housing Directorate on page 67 and at the financial address on page 81. I close and conclude, Madam President and Minister. The most important thing is that we have a bill without planning, we have a bill, where there are no proportionate studies to make the costs that this agency needs to run and to provide for the actions that the government should take to ensure that there are both Greek farmers' pensions and advance payments. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u225	Mr. Hadjisavvas has the floor since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u226	Thank you. Why is the bill not answered yet? After all, this bill is nothing new. In its resolution No.4387/2016, by which the OGA insurance component is part of the ECA, with whatever consequences this change has, the principle for this draft law has become the starting point. Just as the title says, we have the transition from the Agricultural Insurance Agency to the Social Welfare and Social Solidarity Organisation. Whatever social benefits there are, of course, we say there are, because in the course of the process you will abolish everything. Any pre-school allowances to be abolished will be the responsibility of this new organisation. We will note that the term 'agricultural insurance' will no longer exist. Not by chance, of course, because precisely because this draft law is a follow-up to Law No.4387/2016 and it is a Memorandum of Understanding and because it is a consistent perception of the Troikas that there is no Greek farmer and Greek production, in a difficult way, in the word "evolution" we delete what is relevant to the agricultural sector. This has been the case by farmers in their tent, but not yet. The new measures will live this year. They'll pay for things they haven't collected, for invoices they haven't collected. They'll pay for productions they've given to dealers who have fooled them and never paid them back. They will pay for each month as if they were civil servants and have revenues every month and the bill also defines the operating framework of the organisation, its purpose for service, of which is to cover the benefits and social services account, the promotion and management of forward policies of the General Secretariat for Social Solidarity, the coverage of all its operating costs. These were all predictable and were, anyway. We've got a lot of reactions. I'm going to pick this one of the Hellenic Top Confederacy, which mentions a few things here. The two most important things he refers to are on the basis of Article 4 for benefits and services. In paragraph 1, it speaks of the laundry card and the need to issue a new card, which will prove to be multiple. Since decades ago, polyteces have a luxury card and it's been using it for their travels and they're getting the reductions, why have there been a new card, which will prove they're multiples? There's a laundry card. They also refer to the fact that - unacceptably for us - the Minister of Labour will willingly choose a representative between four organisations, namely: the Higher Association of Multitude Greeks, the Panhellenic Federation of Trinidad Greeks, the Federation of Multilateral Families with Three Teenas of Greece and the Panhellenic Association of Members of the Monogenous Family. If one of them is selected, can he express the interests and requirements of all others? Does he know? I don't think he knows them. In Article 45, many problems will arise with the return of money. As the article stands, it appears that it will create at least further problems for beneficiaries of benefits and benefits, since under the pretext of wrongly paid, back money will be demanded. I understand that some people will take it and don't deserve it and they will have to return it, but some people who will have to return it, doesn't mean they have money and they're rich.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u227	As before.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u228	No, judge beforehand who's gonna take them. Listen to me. Some may not have the evidence to get that money, but some who will be excluded doesn't mean they have a lot of money. When they were given, they were spent and now they have no way of returning them. That's the problem. So maybe we should make more proper use of the money at first and then not ask everyone back. I would also like to say that there are thousands of families and single-parent families who are in trouble, because the municipalities are not ready to deal with this, which you are legislating and staying with too many children without a job. Article 53 concerns matters of personnel supervised by the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Solidarity, overtime, allowances, etc., which have to do with the staff of the Centre for the Education and Rehabilitation of Blinds, the National Foundation for the Deaf, the National Centre for Social Solidarity, Papafeios, etc. Everything that has to do with keeping these social care structures open and supporting the work of their staff must be supported, as has been supported and demonstrated by a series of questions from the People's Association - Golden Dawn. Article 54 extends the exemption of the legal person of private law, the Sikiaridis Foundation from the obligation to produce proof of tax and insurance information. All this will be done, so that this institution can continue to function, a subject which, as a Golden Dawn, we have also raised with questions. And that's a good thing. For the proof of knowledge of the language or the local dialect Romani, Article 55, I would like to say that your study - as our people say - makes it possible to establish a procedure to prove the knowledge of the language and the local dialect Romani, as if all the problems of the uninsured, disabled, the elderly, all the related benefits have been solved and what you are concerned with is how one will prove that he knows the local language, Romani. I come to Article 56 for NGOs. Granted to legal persons under private law by the Ministry of Finance. It is essentially the process by which NGOs take state money, provided they provide social care services. Indeed, it would be worth telling us what money has been given to NGOs and institutions, on what criteria, precisely, and with what control procedures. No one knows with the NGOs what contracts they are doing, who they hire, what they pay, and above all what amounts they have received so far. More generally, it is not about what the new super-organism will call itself, what matters is that the OGA is actually abolished, that pre-school and disability benefits are delayed and not given at times. Nothing from the new super-organism, which you are doing, does not ensure that the procedure for granting benefits and allowances is unfeasible. And I am talking about allowances which have been reduced and unfortunately gradually, implementing the Memorandum of Understanding, you will be abolished. Previous speakers have also been mentioned, but I would also like to ask what exactly is going on with national issues. What exactly is going on with the Imias? We had an inoculation of a Greek coastguard with the intention of immersing it and after that, the question arises: is it Greek or not the Imias? If it's Greek, why does Kammenos throw the wreath running and leaving? Above all, what did Simitis agree that night when he came and said: 'Thank the American Government for the Imia'? What has he agreed with the United States of America and what have they agreed with the Turks on the Imia regime? What does the current government know about the Imia regime? If the Simitis doesn't come out and say it, you go out and tell him. You must say that we have received a regime, which is a grey zone or that Imia belongs to the Turks, as Erdogan's Turkish advisor comes out and states. The Turks, of course, for the incident of the embolism of the ship say that the Greeks have received the answer that they had to. So, we were provoking and responding? The United States of America is demanding restraint from both. So, what does the Greek side do and ask for restraint? Is there anything wrong with that? Oh, no. The Turks are causing them. We go there, to ensure our interests, embodi the best ship in our port, the upper ship in the port, to immerse it, it does not sink because of the Captain's efforts, and we are asked for self-restraint! So the government's answer to all these actions is that the Turks do not know geography. We are talking about an answer that'sorried' the Turkish side, stopped the violations and everything became good and well. But Erdogan, your friend, who came here, said a lot and a lot of things to you. The Erdogan regime yesterday drowned two children in Evros. However, it was not presumptuous to invoice NGOs' actions to highlight the issue. They were persecuted by the Erdogan regime, with which you join.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u229	What's that now? Are you teaching us a lesson? Is this a matter of today's meeting?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u230	I'm a parliamentary representative. Will you tell me what I'm going to say?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u231	Mr. Theonas, please, I'm here to perform my duties. Finish it, Mr. Hajisavva.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u232	That is not the subject of today's debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u233	Please! Dialogues are not allowed in the Chamber. Mr. Theonas, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u234	Madam President, may I continue? Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u235	Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u236	So your friend Erdogan and his regime serve 'the doctrine of the two and a half wars'. Do you know what "the doctrine of the two and a half wars" is? That their strategy is that they can kill both Kurds and Syrians, that they can have a war in the Aegean. The war in the Aegean is the one war, the war against Syria and the Kurds is the second and the war within them is half. That's been for decades. You seem to be ignoring this, but you should leave diligence to national issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u237	What did you do in the '40s war?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u238	Mr. Theonas, what's wrong with you? Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u239	What war? I was born in 1979. Tell me which war I didn't go to.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u240	We fought on all fronts.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u241	All right, you've fought. I've told you that if your struggle and your resistance were the same as your antimony resistance, which lasted a few months...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u242	Mr. Hajisavva, don't answer. Complete what you want to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u243	Read the story a little bit to learn it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u244	Congratulations!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u245	Madam President, pick him up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u246	I therefore urge you to let national issues and not have Mr Boutaris set the agenda in national matters and say that he does not mind taking the name 'New Macedonia' in Skopje. In fact, not only does he not mind being called "Neo-Macedonians", but he minds that we will have an airport called "Macedonia", because we will provoke and may be confused, he says, tourists and think they come to Skopje when they come to the airport "Macedonia". If he wants to show how open Mr. Boutaris is to give things, let him find a small wine producer or bottler, give him the name "Botari" to use it as a brand name and even change his own name, don't confuse any consumer in the supermarket and go to buy the "New Boutari" and buy the old one.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u247	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u248	I conclude, but I have been eaten by Mr. Theonas, who tells me and what to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u249	We won't answer Mr. Boutaris, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u250	And the A.L.A.'s agents should stop throwing an idea of 'Central Balkan Republic', which make them think and don't know what it is. We know very well what the Central Balkan Republic is and what it means to the state of Pirin - Skopje - Northern Greece, with the capital of Thessaloniki. Let's put that aside. You should know that you should not, above all, give our Macedonian national identity to the Skopje, because if you do this, even if they change their constitution, even if they change their streets, their squares, even if they say that they will not have any corrosion, by taking the national identity, they have won it all without having claimed anything more than that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u251	I have asked, but the other President-in-Office did not bring back those who spoke about the same issue before and for the sake of equivalence I allowed Mr Hatzishava to conclude.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u252	Mr. Hajisavva, give all the lessons you think you can give.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u253	Mr. Theonas, can you hear me? Everyone here has paraded and spoken about the same thing. So I, as President-in-Office, asked in this respect. The fact that they have not been revoked in order to limit themselves to the subject means that I also have to tolerate Mr Hadjisavva. Understood?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u254	But I'm a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u255	It doesn't matter. Does the parliamentary representative, in your opinion, say what he remembers? Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u256	I will once again give Mr. Theonas my speech to approve it already.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u257	It's not the Step of the House to answer Mr. Boutaris and everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u258	If you don't want to talk about other issues, you can give us a step in the Parliamentary channel. Democrats!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u259	Calm down. Go and yell out. Mrs. Scouffa has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u260	Madam President, I will not need the five-minute. In addition to what the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, Mr Mandas, has quoted and in response to a terriblely serious misgiving which has been heard in the Chamber, that, at the Government of SYRIZA, Economists and ANLE, wages have been reduced, I would like to inform the House that on 13 February the decision of the Ministry of Labour, which concerns the definition of the strategic objectives of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity for 2018, was posted the day before yesterday. Among the objectives, as first and foremost, the reintroduction of collective labour agreements in August 2018 and the monitoring for the implementation of free collective bargaining at all levels is set out. I imagine we will have all months, until August 2018, but also after the closure of the current programme, to discuss and place all the political forces in the democratic arch, in relation to whether they will fight together with this government, to bring collective labour agreements back together and to restore gradually, but also to be more flexible in the workplace, or, on the contrary, to believe - at least the party of Officerial Responsibility - that the increase in wages, which will contribute to the more dignified living of workers, is in line with the reduction in business competitiveness and, therefore, it is not legitimate. With regard to this bill, I believe that the Party of Officers has tried to set up a smokescreen and some excuses and abductions to cover the fact that they are voting against it for other reasons. I would like to say that, on the basis of the hearing of the bodies which preceded the Committee on Social Affairs, we have seen that the vast majority of reasoning bodies, representatives of social groups, concerned with the provisions of the bill, have not only expressed a positive opinion on the articles of the bill, but have characterised many of the provisions - for many years now expected - as beneficial. What we have to vote on today is whether or not we at last want to have a law, order, transparency and equality in the area of social, benefits, benefits and services. I just wanted to say that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u261	Thank you, Mrs. Scouffa, and for the brief. Mr Metatakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u262	Thank you, Mr President. We heard the Members of the Symposia reported with crocodile tears in the country's recent past. The Greek people are still waiting with a law and an article to change all that you described. Because you are now a government over three years. You are the longest-lived government in the memorials and now you have your own history and that is what you are judging. The SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Mandas, rightly said that the privileged benefits are over 1 billion. Indeed, it is EUR 1.3 billion. He's absolutely right. On the basis of the budget figures, in 2014 the same figure was 2.2 billion. Today social benefits are half of what they were in 2014. I referred to my protology in the elements of poverty. The risk of poverty has increased for workers, decliningly for vulnerable population groups. This is the result and proof that your pro-active policy is not effective. Today's bill, as we have read it, is administratively organising differently how to concentrate benefits and as an administrative change. We have said that in committee too. However, if the majority Members of the House are right to say that the pro-legislative policy in Greece is fragmented, and after this bill, it remains exactly as fragmented, because according to the Minister, neither the criteria nor the way that all these privileges are given. Of course, a question arises here, and this question will be answered in the next few months. Article 4(2) stipulates that there will be a single benefit regulation which will potentially change the criteria. I remember that the government majority in this Chamber was saying that the Katrugalu Law, which created the personal difference, would never lead to a reduction in pensions. "It was purely an accounting term" said Mr Katrugalos and the pensioners know that 1-1-2019 will lose 2 billion euros of their pensions. So I ask, and I write it about the future: is the Single Procurement Regulation referred to in Article 4(2) a pretext for reductions in the near future? The government, of course, is very proud of the social solidarity allowance, what Mrs Folios called the 'poverty trap' when the Samara-Venezelou government introduced it as a minimum guaranteed income. Furthermore, Mrs Fotou said that right-wing governments do not invest in welfare. But, in 2014, welfare expenditures were twice as high as today. Instead, you only invest in welfare and deprive the Greek people of hope and opportunities for decent living through work. He spoke before the majority spokesman for Brain Drain. But all the young people who leave the country do not go to countries that are engaged in an economic policy such as the one conducted by the SYRIZA. It is for the national court to determine whether the conditions laid down in Article In Article 4 we disagree to remove from the Supreme Confederation the right to give the travel card. I think that even the parties in the Couple have said that. I imagine the Minister will change it. For Article 56 we insist that it is unclear how since 2016 the Ministry of Labour gives uncontrolled funds without rules to non-governmental organisations. It is expenditure that has increased by 15% since the 2016 amendment was adopted. Articles 52 and 53. We disagree with the extensions, we disagree on ex post money laundering. Let the services do their job right. Finally, Article 54 for Sikaryidius. We want a permanent, substantial and sustainable solution. It is not a solution to the second tax and insurance by way of derogation from information. It does not really address the problems of the institution, which, according to its commander, still does not have a viability study. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u263	Thank you, Mr. Metarakis. Mr. Constantopoulos, will you speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u264	No, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u265	Mr. Synthrakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u266	We're here, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u267	I'm sorry, Mr. Shahinides. They've written you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u268	Madam President, you have not written us, you are making a very big mistake. The previous President-in-Office, Mr Lambroulis, when he asked the secretary to come down and be informed by the rapporteurs and speakers of the parties, went by everyone but us. We didn't ask. It's a standing tactic that's being followed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u269	They're writing you, but after Mr. Synhronakis. I thought you had that priority.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u270	When did no one come by to ask me? If I asked for a second, I'd be prepared appropriately. I would like to denounce that it is a regular tactic that is followed by the committees. When you go out and say that all the parties were informed and we are ignorant when they ask the rapporteurs whether or not they will answer and while I am present in Ethiopia, no one comes to ask me and allow me to do so at the time our Parliamentary representative is speaking to be interrupted by MPs from other parties, without going to the class at that time, it is unacceptable. I don't have to second.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u271	Mr. Synthrakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u272	Thank you, Madam President. The conclusion, which we draw from the discussion of this draft law, is that, the more the fight grows on secondary issues, the more the SYRIZA - ANEL government converging to the basics and capitals with the New Democracy and the PASOK. And this fight between government on the one hand and New Democracy on the other, is consciously taking place on both sides. They are fighting in front of the unemployed, the poor, the impoverished, the vulnerable social groups who have given or removed more social benefits, whether wages have been reduced or not, if the SYRIZA KEO or the New Democracy's minimum guaranteed income are better, if the current government hires a party army from posters and does not make money available to pursue social policy, as the New Democracy or the Client State of New Democracy and PASOK says today, as SYRIZA says, while at the same time they have kneeled the people from these anti-gravious, hard and barbaric policies. A single objective is this: to hide the essence of the intentions of both, which are to harmonise so-called prosperous policies with the World Bank's directives and the Memorandum of Understanding on the reduction of benefits per year of 0.5% of GDP. This size of disgusting governmental and major opposition propaganda aims to formulate a standard of low demands on the labour, popular layers to think that there is no longer a return and that what the years of the crisis are not going to come back. Much more makes it clear that the exit from the memoranda is not going to bring about any loss recovery and that the poorer believe that the condition for their survival is that benefits are cut off to less poorer people, so that the concepts of "justice" and "solidarity" take the point of sharing poverty. These are in relation to the draft law. I now come to the ministerial amendments. Amendment No 1475, which deals with the possibility of repayment of the municipality's debts from AKSIA money, we will vote against it for three reasons: The first is that the government's aim is to face up to primary debts to EYCAP from the municipalities, so that planning can go ahead for its sale. Secondly, because this amount of money is increased to interfere with the State in situations of economic bankruptcy of the municipalities. After all, this money is part of the CAP, which is retained in the Deposit and Loan Fund as a wallet. Thirdly, because the government's rules remove all the possibilities of the Ministry of Interior to fund municipalities with additional amounts from the State budget for the resulting needs. In Amendment No 1477, which regulates the debts of self-employed people in the public sector, we will vote'residents'. We cannot say 'yes', because the governments overloaded their self-employed workers with excessive social security contributions and they come today hypocritically to say: 'Come and regulate them'. In any case, however, we say'residents' because if this is the case, let people regulate their debts. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In Amendment No 1478 - and to conclude with this - which is a pluralism for the granting of special compensation to doctors in the CEPR, we will say 'yes'. Of course, we should comment that the Communist Party of Greece takes the view that all doctors should belong to the single public and free health system and all these extra allowances should be included in their wages. In the second, which concerns the exemption of disabled people from the obligation to pay the offence, we will also say 'yes'. The money from the paradoxes, of course, will go to the insurance funds. For us, the insurance funds should be exempt from such charges, because they are credited to the insured. In third, regarding the extension of the duration of the 'House and Reintegration' programme, we will also say 'yes', commenting that these programmes for homeless people are part of the recycling of poverty and are proof of the expansion of poverty, as well as the auctions that will be integrated, as well as the lack of a policy for cheap and quality housing for the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u273	Thank you, too. Mr. Constantopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u274	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, both in the committee and in today's plenary debate we stressed the need for consultation, which was undermined by the urgency of the procedure. We have put forward our proposals, so that the aims which the bill serves can be achieved. The Democratic Reconciliation knows very well what a social state means. PASOK has left its seal indelibly in policies, which have been part of the structures of social solidarity and social welfare. I said earlier that a comprehensive social policy is needed today, focusing on human beings and not on a policy of managing the situation, not on poorer benefits. We recognised the positive elements contained in the bill, such as the registration and concentration of all benefits in one body, the transition to the era of electronic interconnection, the putting the OPEKA together with the ADIKA and the HICP. There are also points, however, which we have asked you to reassess and correct, such as the Multi-Technical Movement Card, the support of three-size and multi-stage families. We shouldn't charge them any more. Give the opportunity to associations of luxuries, third parties, single-parent families, and to participate independently with their own representative in the OPEKA Board of Directors. We have tabled an amendment on the resources of welfare allowances and the concern that has been caused to local authorities regarding the CAP. You told us that the CAP would not be affected and we proposed that it be explicitly clarified in the bill that the resources of the OPEK will come from a budget of the Ministry of Labour, while the resources already allocated to the CFP will not be affected and exploited by local government. We have also proposed that community centres be integrated into the social services of the municipalities, with a view to the uniform provision of social services and social care, as well as cooperation between community and JEP centres, within the existing legislative framework, with a view to better service for citizens. Most of our proposals have been accepted. However, we expect you to accept our amendment as well, which is why I will not vote at first. I will listen to you and vote then. As far as the amendments are concerned, I would say that they are in the majority of them in the positive direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u275	As the rapporteurs have completed, I will give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u276	Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that a fruitful debate has taken place all these days. I'm not defending the emergency. I explained why I did it. It's a law that I believe can be discussed as much as you like. The more it is discussed, the better it is to understand the great part we are doing today in the National Social Protection and Social Solidarity System, which, in fact, we are linking the two pillars for the first time in Greece, which will have a great and multiplier benefit, as I have many times developed. I think the debate is good, because I believe that all parties have contributed critically, except for the New Democracy and the Golden Dawn. Here we are dealing with two cases, which have a preconceived decision and from there on, we are not listening and we do not understand anything. Unfortunately, this is not parliamentarianism. In particular, I will respond to certain things, so that they do not go unanswered: first of all, Madam President, I will accept Amendment No 1481 by Mr Stefou, Mr Manu and Mr Barcas, which has already developed a great deal. Secondly, Mr Metarakis, the OPEKA regulation does not reduce benefits. To tell all tons: We are not reducing the benefits!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u277	Mr. Katrugalos said the same about pensions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u278	All right, let go of this! Leave that, because I have a few things to say. We have been amazed to hear Mr Brutsi telling us that the OGA is being abolished today. Funny not to have heard that OGA has joined the EGF and that the remaining OGA since the first moment of 2016, since the first day, has been for the privileges. It's the first time we've heard that, former Minister not knowing. We are, of course, repeatedly listening to the poorening of the Greek society. Here, Madam President, may I say this: in 2008, on the basis of ELSTAT, the population, which was at risk of poverty and social exclusion, was 28.1% of this two million nine hundred thousand people. In 2014 -- with ELSTAT data -- it was 36% of the population, i.e. three million nine hundred thousand people. You're not telling me that one million from where he came from? Did he fall out of the sky? Wasn't it one of the middle classes you poor? A million in ten have you figured out what it means? Do you understand what you've done? And you're asking for the change! In 2016, that is, for incomes 2015 -- with ELSTAT's figures again - one year once we've taken power, the percentage of the population was 35.6%. We have reduced by 100 thousand those at risk of poverty and social exclusion. Nothing! Minimal! But it's a reduction! Do you understand? And when this year's ELSTAT data comes out, you'll see the further decline. One quarter of the population lost 40 percent of their income, the poorest. The middle layers lost 35.5% of your kingdom, based on ELSTAT's data. Mr. Metarakis, who likes to make indiscriminately various elements, do you know how much ELSTAT says that it was the equivalent maximum family income with two children in 2009? It was 33,250 euros. Do you know how much 2015 it was? For the same family it was EUR 21,720. How do you like that? Who impoverished the Greek people and the Greek middle class? That's enough of it! Not to say all these silly stories about the'subordinate', with part-time work, which you set up part-time by 70%, informal working relationships and part-time work until last year. We have created three hundred thousands of new jobs, for the first time this year, which are a normal job and are not part-time. Don't you know that? We've been through it ten times! What are you talking about in here? So, let's say something, to pass, get bored of answering and reproducing all the media. Although I answer, they'll still reproduce it. Your media, that's what they say at night. Here, okay, it's a conspiracy of lying. What can we do? But, no matter what, the Greek people understand it at the end of the day, don't worry. And I come to that amazing thing, that there is an increase in employees by twenty-seven thousand in public! We were looking for you too, because we know you've declared the public, we know the public can't work. And all our data speaks of five hundred sixty-six thousand in 2017, when in 2014 we received five hundred seventy-seven thousand. So, what happens now? What will happen now in this state? What's going to happen in this House? Will the Greek people laugh at saying things which we will then disprove - one point and whoever bears? [[The end of the speaking time of Mrs. Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] To say, however, now for some things that have arisen in the debate and are serious, in my view. Mr. Loverdos asked if the community centres were working. Mr. Loverdos, there are problems in community centres, a new institution is now 'drink' the whole story. I am very interested in the amendment by Mr Constantopoulos and Mr Kegeroglu, because we agree on all points. One of the points raised by the amendment is that it does not happen and we take the money from the CFP. I read to you in Article 3(1a), which is unequivocal: 'UPEKA resources are: a) the State budget grants to cover the benefits of the Procurement and Social Services Account'. What does that mean? All the money will be given by OPEKA only from the state budget. Nobody minds the CFPs. I said it yesterday. You don't believe me. It is clear that we are not going to get a single euro from the CAP. That's what the article says.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u279	Why don't you accept the amendment, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u280	Why would I accept it when I have it in the law? More to write?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u281	For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u282	Mr. Constantopoulos, do you have to ask me why? You didn't think about it!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u283	Mr. Constantopoulos, really, I'm not going to make fun of anyone. I'm trying honestly to say everything that's going on. I have already said that, since all the municipalities will continue to provide benefits for disability benefits, this is all the disabled, other than new entrants for Attica. How do we get the CFPs?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u284	That is what our amendment says.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u285	Okay. I do not think I can be described by mockery in legislation, because then the House will say that I am making wrong arrangements.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u286	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u287	Yes, Madam President. I'm wasting my time, but what am I supposed to do? There's been a lot of noise. In an amendment to your own, the Democratic Alliance, Mrs Christophilopoulou, Mr Kegeroglou - I do not remember who else signes - there is the provision, which says that community centres belong to the social service of each municipality. It is not 'in the air'. They're not alone. I've said that ten times. It was said that community centres should be contacted with JEPs. The JEPs think they have a lot of work to do. Still, let's see this. Do we not want to make the citizens' greatest convenience? I think, Mr Amyras, that the government commissioner ensures the public interest and that his remuneration is EUR 50 per meeting when he is present. You also asked about the remuneration of members of the board of directors. They shall also receive EUR 50 per meeting. They're not paid any differently. Madam President, I have completed. Thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u288	Thank you, too. Mr. Amyras, when I spoke to you, you weren't here. Do you want me to give you half a year?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u289	I do not want to change the procedure completely, Madam President. I just want to say that I wasn't here because I was in the Senate, talking about the urgency procedure put in by the government for the bill we're discussing. So, between two emergencymen, I was forced to fire in Thessaloniki! This is the bill for the port of Thessaloniki.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u290	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u291	Staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u292	For the Ms. Minister's reports. First of all, Minister, we will not accept lessons of parliamentary conduct from anyone. Rather, you must at some point make a self-criticism about your attitude as a Qualified Opposition in the period 2012-2014 and about your election promises, which you eventually did not observe. However, on the substance of what you said, because the risk of poverty is statistically chosen, compared to 2012, taken by the Samaras Government, in 2014, which delivered it, has been reduced. She's down on the Samara government. However, you have not responded to the figures from the budget that I have told you, for the EUR 1 billion less, you are giving social benefits, you say nothing about pensions, which are reduced by two billion in 2019, you say nothing about tax reduction, you say nothing about the abolition of the CSCE, you say nothing about the abolition of the luxury benefits. For social analgesia, you probably have to blame yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u293	I've filed it five times, and I'll testify again to Mr. Metarakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u294	But, as you can see, these are not proven to be in the audience they're watching. Anyone can claim what they think.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u295	Mrs. Jufi has testified them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u296	Change the law. You've passed a law.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u297	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles, amendments and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity is adjourned: 'Involvement of the Agricultural Insurance Agency in an Innovative Grants and Social Solidarity Organisation (OPEKA) and other provisions'. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u298	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u299	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u300	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u301	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u302	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u303	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u304	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u305	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u306	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity: “Movement of the Organisation for Agricultural Insurance to the Organisation for Preferential Benefits and Social Solidarity (OECD) and other provisions” was accepted in the first place by a majority. We are going to vote on the articles and they will be voted on separately. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u307	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u308	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u309	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u310	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u311	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u312	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u313	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u314	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u315	Article 1 is therefore accepted as majority. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u316	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u317	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u318	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u319	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u320	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u321	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u322	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u323	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u324	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u325	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u326	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u327	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u328	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u329	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u330	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u331	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u332	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u333	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u334	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u335	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u336	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u337	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u338	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u339	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u340	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u341	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u342	Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u343	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u344	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u345	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u346	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u347	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u348	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u349	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u350	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u351	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u352	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u353	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u354	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u355	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u356	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u357	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u358	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u359	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u360	Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u361	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u362	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u363	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u364	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u365	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u366	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u367	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u368	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u369	Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u370	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u371	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u372	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u373	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u374	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u375	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u376	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u377	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u378	Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Can Article 9, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u379	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u380	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u381	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u382	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u383	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u384	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u385	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u386	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u387	Article 9 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u388	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u389	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u390	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u391	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u392	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u393	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u394	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u395	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u396	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u397	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u398	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u399	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u400	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u401	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u402	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u403	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u404	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u405	Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u406	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u407	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u408	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u409	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u410	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u411	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u412	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u413	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u414	Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 13 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u415	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u416	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u417	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u418	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u419	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u420	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u421	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u422	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u423	Article 13 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u424	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u425	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u426	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u427	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u428	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u429	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u430	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u431	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u432	Article 14 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u433	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u434	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u435	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u436	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u437	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u438	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u439	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u440	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u441	Article 15 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 16 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u442	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u443	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u444	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u445	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u446	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u447	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u448	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u449	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u450	Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 17 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u451	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u452	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u453	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u454	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u455	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u456	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u457	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u458	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u459	Article 17 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 18 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u460	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u461	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u462	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u463	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u464	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u465	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u466	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u467	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u468	Article 18 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 19 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u469	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u470	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u471	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u472	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u473	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u474	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u475	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u476	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u477	Article 19 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 20 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u478	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u479	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u480	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u481	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u482	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u483	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u484	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u485	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u486	Article 20 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 21 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u487	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u488	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u489	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u490	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u491	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u492	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u493	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u494	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u495	Article 21 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 22 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u496	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u497	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u498	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u499	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u500	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u501	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u502	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u503	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u504	Article 22 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 23 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u505	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u506	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u507	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u508	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u509	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u510	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u511	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u512	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u513	Article 23 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 24 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u514	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u515	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u516	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u517	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u518	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u519	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u520	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u521	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u522	Article 24 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 25 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u523	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u524	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u525	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u526	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u527	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u528	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u529	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u530	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u531	Article 25 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 26 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u532	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u533	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u534	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u535	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u536	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u537	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u538	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u539	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u540	Article 26 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 27 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u541	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u542	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u543	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u544	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u545	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u546	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u547	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u548	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u549	Article 27 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 28 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u550	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u551	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u552	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u553	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u554	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u555	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u556	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u557	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u558	Article 28 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 29 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u559	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u560	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u561	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u562	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u563	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u564	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u565	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u566	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u567	Article 29 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 30 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u568	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u569	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u570	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u571	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u572	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u573	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u574	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u575	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u576	Article 30 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 31 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u577	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u578	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u579	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u580	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u581	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u582	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u583	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u584	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u585	Article 31 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 32 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u586	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u587	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u588	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u589	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u590	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u591	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u592	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u593	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u594	Article 32 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 33 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u595	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u596	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u597	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u598	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u599	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u600	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u601	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u602	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u603	Article 33 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 34 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u604	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u605	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u606	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u607	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u608	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u609	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u610	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u611	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u612	Article 34 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 35 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u613	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u614	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u615	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u616	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u617	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u618	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u619	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u620	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u621	Article 35 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 36 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u622	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u623	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u624	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u625	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u626	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u627	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u628	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u629	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u630	Article 36 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 37 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u631	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u632	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u633	Present
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u634	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u635	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u636	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u637	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u638	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u639	Article 37 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 38 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u640	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u641	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u642	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u643	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u644	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u645	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u646	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u647	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u648	Article 38 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 39 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u649	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u650	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u651	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u652	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u653	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u654	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u655	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u656	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u657	Article 39 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 40 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u658	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u659	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u660	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u661	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u662	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u663	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u664	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u665	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u666	Article 40 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 41 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u667	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u668	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u669	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u670	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u671	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u672	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u673	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u674	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u675	Article 41 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 42 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u676	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u677	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u678	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u679	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u680	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u681	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u682	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u683	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u684	Article 42 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 43 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u685	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u686	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u687	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u688	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u689	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u690	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u691	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u692	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u693	Article 43 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 44 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u694	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u695	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u696	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u697	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u698	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u699	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u700	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u701	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u702	Article 44 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 45 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u703	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u704	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u705	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u706	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u707	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u708	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u709	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u710	Yes
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u711	Article 45 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 46 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u712	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u713	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u714	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u715	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u716	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u717	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u718	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u719	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u720	Article 46 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 47 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u721	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u722	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u723	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u724	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u725	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u726	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u727	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u728	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u729	Article 47 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 48 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u730	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u731	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u732	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u733	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u734	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u735	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u736	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u737	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u738	Article 48 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 49 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u739	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u740	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u741	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u742	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u743	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u744	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u745	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u746	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u747	Article 49 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 50 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u748	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u749	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u750	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u751	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u752	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u753	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u754	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u755	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u756	Article 50 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Will Rule 51 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u757	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u758	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u759	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u760	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u761	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u762	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u763	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u764	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u765	Article 51 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 52 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u766	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u767	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u768	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u769	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u770	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u771	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u772	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u773	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u774	Article 52 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 53 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u775	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u776	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u777	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u778	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u779	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u780	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u781	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u782	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u783	Article 53 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 54 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u784	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u785	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u786	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u787	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u788	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u789	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u790	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u791	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u792	Article 54 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 55 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u793	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u794	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u795	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u796	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u797	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u798	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u799	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u800	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u801	Article 55 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 56 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u802	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u803	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u804	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u805	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u806	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u807	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u808	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u809	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u810	Article 56 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 57 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u811	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u812	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u813	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u814	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u815	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u816	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u817	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u818	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u819	Article 57 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 58 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u820	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u821	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u822	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u823	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u824	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u825	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u826	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u827	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u828	Article 58 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 59 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u829	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u830	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u831	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u832	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u833	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u834	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u835	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u836	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u837	Article 59 was therefore accepted as being majority. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 1477 and a special number 103 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u838	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u839	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u840	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u841	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u842	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u843	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u844	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u845	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u846	Therefore, the amendment of a general number 1477 and a special 103 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same articles. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under the general number 1478 and specific 104 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u847	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u848	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u849	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u850	Here, Madam President, in the insect they have been numbered as articles. In Articles 62 and 63 we say 'Paris' and in Article 64 we say 'No'. If the amendment is voted on as it is, uniformly, we say 'No'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u851	But this is not the case. A single vote shall be taken.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u852	We therefore have to say 'No'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u853	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u854	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u855	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u856	Yeah. Madam President, I should like to make it clear that there are three parts to this amendment. We agree on two: exemption for disabled people from payment of a paradox and extension of a programme of housing and reintegration. So because we agree on these two basically, we say 'Yes' to the amendment. In the first, however, we do not agree on special compensation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u857	That, as you can see, can't...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u858	I know. I wanted to say it in dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u859	Therefore, the amendment of a general number 1478 and a special 104 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same articles. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number of 1481 and a special number of 107 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u860	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u861	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u862	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u863	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u864	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u865	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u866	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u867	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u868	Therefore, the amendment of a general number 1481 and a special 107 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u869	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u870	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u871	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u872	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u873	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u874	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u875	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u876	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u877	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the Law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity: ‘Involvement of the Organisation for Agricultural Insurance in the Organisation for Preferential Benefit and Social Solidarity (OECD) and other provisions’ has been accepted in principle and on articles. We move on to vote on the bill and on the whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u878	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u879	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u880	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u881	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u882	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u883	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u884	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u885	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u886	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the Law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity: ‘Involvement of the Agricultural Insurance Organisation in an Innovative Benefit and Social Solidarity Organisation (OECD) and other provisions’ has been accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u887	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u888	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, thirty-five students and students and three teachers from the 1st PAL Farmadona Trikala. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-15-S1-commons.u889	With the consent of the House at 17.58 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, February 16, 2018 at 10.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
