ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour of announcing to the House the news sheet on Thursday 29 November 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 179/26-11-2018 topical question by MP Athens, Neo Democrat Georgios Koumoutsakos, Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "Increased Turkish provocativeness in the Aegean Sea and the Eastern Mediterranean". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 187/27-11-2018 of the Greek Communist Party MEP Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on "To withdraw redundancies, protect workers and implement sectoral collective agreements in Food Tourism". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 180/26-11-2018 by MP Kozani of the New Democracy Mr Georgios Kasapidis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: ‘Problems and protests in payment of the advance payment of the basic aid for the year 2018’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 161/19-11-2018 by MP Magnesia of the New Democracy Mr Christos Boukokouros to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "At a slow pace, significant infrastructure projects in Magnesia." 3. The Question No 169/20-11-2018 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport on the subject: "Assessment of impacts from the construction and operation of the airport in Kastelis. There is a need for projects and return benefits for the region.’ 4. The question by MP I Piraeus of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "Skopje port becomes Thessaloniki on the basis of the Prespecies Agreement". 5. The Question No 75-16-10-2018 by MP Pireos of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: “Protection of crews from abandonment of a ship of inland waterways”. 6. The 1/1-10-2018 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Antonios Gregos to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "About the Macedonian Museum and other institutions, associations and associations of Macedonia and Article 6 of the Greek-Skopje Agreement". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Question No 1191/4-9-2018 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMARKKKKKKEN KEGEROGLOV to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Let thousands be locked away from our fellow citizens, insured of the OAU and of the OGA who are today without income and without pension". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Civil Protection: ‘Airports Obligations on Passenger Records — Adaptation of Legislation to Directive (EU) 2016/681’. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 26 November 2018 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting in principle, articles and amendments. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u2	The House agreed. Allow me on this point, before we go to the parties' rapporteurs, to give the floor to Mr Tsakalotos and to Mrs Gerovasilis, in order to present two amendments in good time for you to be aware of these amendments. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we have had various disagreements over the last year on the budget and the medium term, where opposition told us a number of things that now seem to be not the case. It's true that in recent years we've given dividends, we've been overreacting. We've explained the reasons why we've been overreacting. We disagree for the reasons. I don't think we need to talk about it again. We never meant to be over-performing and gave the dividend, as this year we would give a dividend of about EUR 710 million, to the same standards that were last year. The amendment will be tabled in half an hour. I shall now explain the amendment to you. If you want, I'll explain it again, but not to waste time, and I talk twice, I'll tell you now, if you want, I say it again and then, but I think it's an exaggeration. They just told me that he had to testify first and then I'd say it. It's the same wavelength, so. The parameters don't change at all. There are marginal differences. And you will see that the amendment says that there will be some details by ministerial decision. But now, as I have explained in the medium and many times - the Prime Minister has explained it - the way we operate is changing. Now that we are out of the programme, we have no need of overcompensation because we are forced by the IMF to say that the return of a tax measure will be low. So we can take measures in advance. Apparently the target is 3.5%. In this 3.5% point, we also leave a carpet so that there is no mistake. You always need security in these things. We are also doing two things: firstly, we are spending it in advance and, secondly, we are spending it on permanent measures. In other words, with regard to everything that happened last week on social security, as in 2019, it will also apply to 2020 and 2021. For the housing allowance again. These are permanent measures that we think will help the economy. Today we have two of these measures which are reaffirming our own account. What's that? Not only will pensions be reduced, but also part of the countermeasures, we will be able to have it not in two years, which was the summer agreement of 2017, but in four years. So what we are discussing today is part of 2019's measures, which are part of the countermeasures that you will see in 2019, 2020, 2021 and 2022. The first amendment is to reduce the tax rates for legal persons - as you know, the Prime Minister announced in Thessaloniki. - where it will go to 28% in 2019, 27% in 2020, 26% in 2021 and 25% in 2022. When it reaches 25%, it will be a little higher than the average in the European Union, which is about 24%, 24.2% or 24.3%, if I remember correctly. I want to mention two things about this measure. It's something that's gonna help businesses. Do not forget, however, that there are very small businesses in Greece that will be helped by this. So it's not just the big business they're going to win. The second is that although there is a pressure internationally in the era of globalisation for low rates of taxation, the most important thing we have understood - and the Ministers for Economy and Development of SYRIZA can confirm it, but also previous ministers - is that the system is stable, that investors know how long it will be and that it will be with some duration. So now that's what we're trying to do, that's what investors know about the rules of the game. Thirdly, I do not even know the views of the opposition parties. The position that the Greek Government supports in Europe is that the profit tax is at European level and that there is a factor, namely Greece, Germany, Ireland, so that there is no competition between the states that 'I reduce it to have more investment than you'. This is an issue which we may perhaps have to discuss if we all support it, namely that there is no tax competition at this level, because that is something that leads us to a downward struggle and is reduced after the social state because there is not enough tax revenue. I'm going quickly to the reduction of HISFIA, which was announced by the Prime Minister in Thessaloniki. In the regulation we have, ENVY is reduced by 30% for property of natural persons with an objective value of up to EUR 60,000. When the total value of the property exceeds EUR 60,000, the discount of 30% is reduced by 70 minutes per 1,000 euros, with a maximum discount of EUR 100. I will give you some examples of what this means: a total of 5.9 million owners, three and a half million - that is 60% of the owners - will have a 30% reduction, another one million - 70% of the owners - will have a 20% reduction and another half million will have a 10% reduction. In other words, five of the 5.9 million owners - 87% of the owners - will have a reduction of 10%. We see, then, that we have to cut HOPH 10% mid-stage. However, for a very important part of the citizens, the reduction is greater. And this part is part of the folk layers, but also a vastly large part of the middle class. These were our promises in Thessaloniki. These are the things we do. I am sure that the whole House prefers a policy that we have permanent measures in advance rather than a retrospective dividend, and that is why I expect there to be universal support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, too. Mrs Gerovalis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, there are three amendments to the bill being discussed, which I want to develop. One amendment deals with issues relating to successful and successful prior ranking contests in the Fire Corps. We are all aware of the problems of staffing the Fire Corps, which are years old and need immediate resolution. You also know that the Memorandum Restrictions have not allowed us in these years to be able to have human resources from the existing tables of earlier fire brigades in the House. In particular, we have not so far been able to make use of tables of contingent on the one hand for permanent general duty firefighters, the last competition in 2011, but also for five years of obligation of the same 2011 competition. Operational needs make the extension of these tables imperative. The proposed amendment therefore establishes the possibility of direct recruitment of staff, both in five-year-old firefighters and in permanent firefighters. The new notice, as you can see, would not be able to solve these needs immediately, given the experience of the previous period. We are all aware of the urgent intake from these tables. The extension of validity is until 31 December 2019 and for the five-year obligation of seasonal fire extinguishers, who are experienced personnel, and today may also be appropriately exploited for pedigree firefighters since the last competition in 2011. That is the amendment under general number 1810. Amendment No 1808 deals with issues relating to the health service of the Firehouse, namely the relocation of this House's health service to the structures of the General Aviation Hospital, for the benefit of both operators and the savings of resources. It is also foreseen that those who go to the hospital, if they have not acquired medical expertise, will be able to continue in the hospital and acquire the expertise. The third amendment, with the general number 1809, regulates some technical issues relating to the NRA. It defines paradoxically for participation in the procedures for the appointment and recruitment of staff in the NRA and regulates the most effective procedure for the fulfilment of positions of the NRA. In particular, the services are reorganised, the competences of service units are changed, the degrees being defined as a qualification to include the diplomas of the Hellenic Open University, which are already equivalent to the AE degrees envisaged. The participation of the Head of Administrative Support and Human Resources Directorate of the EEAS is also defined in the three-member selection committee to be set up. These are the three amendments. There is also a legislative improvement, which I shall be tabling for the Minutes. I would remind you that there had been a debate on the second subparagraph of Article 9(3) of the bill, which was deleted precisely so that the doubt we had discussed would not arise if the crimes under investigation could be extended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, too. Mr. Famelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will present the amendment on the arrangements for building arrangements for the restoration and renewal of the firefighting area of the Municipalities of Marathon and Rafina - Pickermiou. A week ago, we presented the speeding up of the certification procedures for forests for these areas, and we were committed to completing all the measures needed to restore the region in a week's time. And this will be done by safeguarding the specificity and nature of the region, clearly improving the quality of life, by removing all the burdensome and negative situations that have been created and the factors, which have been unreserved as access to roads and traffic networks, the unequal distribution of the structured stock and construction, the alteration of the areas, particularly the coastal zone. In general, all situations created will be addressed, giving their place to a specific spatial project that will include and incorporate the sustainable development of the region. Thus, the regeneration of the area will be combined with the immediate restoration of the affected buildings and thus satisfying the needs of our citizens. The ultimate objective is to create an anthropogenic environment in the region, which will have a basic criterion for the protection of human life, because this was lacking in the former situation. They are therefore defined in the amendment tabled, the limitations on building and the restoration of the affected buildings, which will enable new buildings to be repaired and built without stopping the design process, but also building the forest infrastructure, which is mainly roads and access to the beach. In particular, the issue of building permits is suspended and construction work is banned in areas critical to spatial planning - those which I have mentioned - are incentives for direct opening up of roads and, at the same time, for the construction of a safe road network, effectively backing the construction of adequate roads to ensure that there is sufficient road width, that buildings located in the areas governed by forest legislation and mainly in the area of the poppa stream are removed and that procedures for completing the road network and for returning to common use of the sections of the coastal front, which will also be indicated by the special spatial plan as a route to the sea, but also as a network of pedestrians. With the introduction of all these provisions, the buildings of the region are restored, there is the choice that gives all citizens the way to restore and continue life in the region with an integrated legal framework. However, the main thing is that the Greek state's chronic pathogens are being removed in dealing with the residential reality and, above all, that the same dead ends will not be repeated and that, unfortunately, the great tragedy and destruction in Matti will not be repeated. In particular, the suspension of the issue of building permits is in areas such as: Zone of specific width from the road axis which are considered critical to the overall design. The width of the suspension is to clarify that it does not constitute the building and rhetorical line. It is the margin that is suspended for the construction to come to the specific spatial plan to determine the rhetorical and building line. The choice of roads has been made so that there are twins of climbing and cathode, that is, a traffic facilitation and, at the same time, there is a connection, if you like, with the wider and adjacent areas, since there was no connection with neighbouring areas. Such suspension shall, of course, be combined with paragraph 2 of Article, where it is possible for buildings with serious damages in the area of suspension, to be compensated as demolitioners and to be constructed in another zone or to retreat or go to another zone. This suspension concerns any construction work and is not repaired and reconstructed mandarins and other surrounding structures, as long as their position is in the suspension zone and within the limits of road construction. At the same time, the suspension within this area also concerns all unstructured plots, the reconstruction of the coastal area and, of course, any building situated in twenty metres from the papa stream zone. However, it is possible to remove these buildings by granting special housing allowances. Excludes from the suspension the restoration of buildings with local damage, i.e. those that want small restorations are excluded. The buildings considered to be repairable and located in all or part in the suspension zone may receive a subsidy of demolitionable and rebuilt outside the zone and may, of course, also be moved to an area outside the suspension zone. With this possibility most buildings that are old and ground-based and have been built with standards - the "standard" is wrong word - holiday homes or lyrics can be rebuilt with modern technical specifications in a position that will not prevent road opening. And since the owners do not make use of this paragraph, they can simply repair the existing building, provided it is not in the suspension zone. As far as the areas in which there is a suspension zone - particularly for the stream of Papa and the area governed by forestry legislation - are concerned, an exceptional social housing allowance is granted for the affected buildings which are mainly and only housed, following a private engineer's report, but also a report on the relocation of the title and thus these buildings will be demolished. Once demolished, the Social Housing Benefit will also be provided. There is no permit for repair in these areas, and of course this subsidy concerns buildings built before the legislation and the time limit of the law on arbitrary settlement, not later than the new arbitrary ones. So we believe that it is also laid down in detail how to identify the area of construction, and also in the implementation of road-modification projects - which is the main issue - the direct construction of road projects and the construction of public areas in the area - and in particular those relating to the coastal, coastal area, so that roads can be rebuilt - the link with neighbouring areas, the restoration of buildings, particularly the main and unique residence, access to traffic, the sea front and the safe operation of the area. Thus, life is immediately restored in the area, real estate is restored and, above all, permanent pathogens of the Greek state are treated in the face of the arbitrary residential reality allowed by the previous governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u8	Thank you. We are now starting with the rapporteurs firstly Mr Ballis, rapporteur of SYRIZA. Here, Mr Ballis, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u9	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that today is a good day for our Parliament. It is a good day, because it includes good news, it has good news in particular for those social groups that have been affected most in recent years and which now see and see that their hope begins and is justified that something will change, when the country with good will be able to fulfil its obligations, its commitments and will also be able to claim and succeed - as it has succeeded - the way out of hard surveillance and from the memoranda. We have heard some of the ministers - Mr Chakaloto above all - describe this good news that I said at the outset. Today is the continuation, because a few days ago we legislated to reduce insurance contributions for young scientists, freelance professionals, self-employed people. We have legislated on subsidising insurance contributions for the young people who will be recruited to help boost employment, especially in younger ages. And today we have the follow-up - with what we have heard, with the amendments which are coming - of a different type of government legislature. It is a legacy that will now finally have our mark, the mark of fairer distribution and burdens and benefits, the mark of our identity after leaving the program, after leaving the memoranda, to return gradually - with careful steps - to those who have lifted most of the weight in previous years some of the benefits that we can now have. Today we have to discuss the draft law incorporating the European Directive on how to transmit and manage nominal passenger data, PNR data. I think, however, that in the minds of all of us this bill will be recorded mainly as the bill which, in its measures, in its regulations, will also include the important, different legislation that changes previous, unfavourable to most of the citizens of the country. It is planned to reduce HPAI by 10% and 30% for those with very low-value real estate and reduce the tax burden on enterprises and legal entities that gain profits from their business. We will gradually reach the European average. We are starting to reduce these charges by 1% per year from time to year. But we must also say a few words to present the bill, the main place we have to discuss today. Ladies and gentlemen, with this bill, as I said before, the directive of both the European Commission and the European Parliament has been incorporated in national legislation since April 2016, as Greece is one of the few - three are all - all European countries that have not yet incorporated this directive into their legislation. This concerns the European Directive on Passenger Name Status, briefly PNR, aimed at preventing, detecting, investigating and prosecuting terrorists, but also many other serious criminal offences. The purpose of the draft law, the purpose of the Directive, is to collect, transmit and process the nominal records of passengers of flights within and outside the European Union. As I said, the aim is to prevent very serious crimes. The timely prediction of these crimes - particularly terrorist acts - was the subject of European and international reflection following the attack of 11 September 2001 in the United States of America, but much more at European level following the terrorist attacks in Paris and Brussels in 2015 and in 2016 respectively. In the shadow of these attacks, the European Parliament had given the green light to develop this system of recording, exchanging and using air passengers' data and personal data. In our country, the adaptation of legislation to this directive, which must be stressed and said to include more extensive provisions for the protection of personal data and rights, is necessary not only for the purposes of preventing serious crimes that I mentioned before, but also for Greece to be able to adapt to the new data that creates ever-changing cross-border crime. It is only natural that we have heard it - some reservations and objections at first instance since the bill also concerns the management of personal data. But let me tell you here that, in the case of the protection of personal data, as regards the protection of rights and human rights, we are not less sensitive than others. I believe that we all have the same sensitivity in dealing with these issues. That is why additional safeguards have been added to ensure the protection of personal data. In any case, the principle of necessity and proportionality applies, and in cases where certain elements of passengers are deemed to need further investigation and evaluation, the principle that the public interest prevails from the point of view of privacy applies. After all, we are talking about the possibility of preventing terrorist and other serious offences. Let us also not miss the fact that airlines are already collecting and transferring to different authorities such personal information from their passengers. The transfer of this information today includes some sixty categories of such data, personal data. With this bill, these categories are limited to eighteen. Is it better - if we think about it - that much more transmitted data moves uncontrolledly to strangers, many times, reception and users and without the slightest assurance and control of confidentiality and protection of sensitive personal data? This is not about collecting and transferring more information than already provided by airlines today. We are talking about less and more safely in their transfer. The data collected are processed only for the purpose of preventing, detecting, investigating and prosecuting the offences I mentioned before and specifically mentioned in the bill. Passenger details to be recorded in the Greek Police file include information, such as the identity details of each passenger, his passport number, the airline he traveled, the agency through which he made his reservation, how to pay the ticket and whether he has travellers and the details of his travellers. For the reception, evaluation and management of this information, PNR data, the National Unit of Passenger Elements is established and operated as an independent department in the Greek Police Management and Analysis Department. Why to an address of the Greek police? Because this address has a policy of security and protection of its facilities and infrastructures, so that it can ensure the protection of personal data against leakage, from uncontrolled use. Let me remind you that this police department is being supervised by a prosecutor and by the Independent Privacy Authority. The Passenger Data Unit operating under this Directorate will also be supervised by the Privacy Authority. How will this be assessed? Criteria to be defined by the Passenger Data Unit in cooperation with the Privacy Authority, which will be reviewed on a regular basis and where necessary, improved, modified. They will be criteria targeted to identify possible suspects, to be proportionate, to be criteria specific to limit the cases of persons to be further considered. After the automated inspection carried out on the basis of these criteria, there will also be non-automated inspection. Not everything will be in the power of a machine, a computer system. There will also be the non-automatic control individually by an authorised unit executive. The information will remain in the police record for a period of five years. Then they'll be destroyed, deleted. The first half will be open to access by the authorities, which will be able to make use of and access to these data. After six months, the data will be depersonalised. They will remain, for five years, without the personal information of the passengers, which will be hidden. The big question, which has been raised in both committees and in the hearing of bodies, is how data protection is ensured. First of all, let me remind you that the purpose of the processing of data is to prevent terrorism - and this is not to forget - but to prevent serious offences such as trafficking in human beings, trafficking in human organs, drug trafficking, trafficking in radioactive or nuclear substances, pornography, corruption and the laundering of black money by political persons, illegal trafficking in cultural goods and many other serious offences which bring serious penalties to Greece and other European countries. They are specifically and restrictive, twenty-seven, the offences mentioned in detail in the bill and which, as I have said, are serious penalties. Access to data will only have the authorised staff of the Passenger Data Unit. The unit manager shall also be responsible for data protection. It will have continued cooperation with the Supervisory Authority for Personal Data Protection. The data will be transferred by airlines in a specific form, with specific encryption and in their electronic transmission only there will be protection against intercepts. From the data transmitted, these data to be sent to the unit by airlines will be necessarily deleted and immediately what is not included in the data to be assessed - those mentioned before - but those that are likely to be deleted and those that fall within specific categories of personal data. Furthermore, the passenger under assessment will have the right to be informed of the content of the data concerning him, to make corrections, to restrict them, and even to delete any of them. It will also have the right to claim legal compensation if it considers it to be affected, as well as to request the intervention of the data protection officer. The bill that we are debating and voting on today has basically in its trunk - the amendments - eighteen articles, which are structured in five chapters, will also be incorporated. The first chapter and the first five articles analyse the definitions contained in the bill, what is restrictive these twenty-seven serious crimes and offences concerning the subject matter of the use of the nominal passenger data, as well as those elements and data of passengers collected and transferred by the air carriers. It's eighteen groups of evidence. That is to say, instead of the sixty - I remind you - that airlines are currently collecting and transferring. The second chapter analyses the arrangements for the establishment and operation of the National Passenger Data Unit. I said the main points of this unit's operation earlier. In Chapter 3, the way data are collected and exchanged is analysed. There is an important point here which says that the principles of evaluation of the data transmitted do not take into account and do not take a decision which will have adverse legal consequences for a particular person, having as its sole criterion automated processing. The non-automatic processing will also be needed. However, racial or ethnic origin will not be taken into account. Political opinions, religious or philosophical beliefs, trade union activities of the passenger concerned, sexual orientation, health status and other sensitive personal data will not be taken into account. The way in which the information is exchanged with the special encryption for protection is also analysed. In the last chapter, in the fifth chapter, in Articles 14 to 17, it is time for data to be kept, the half-yearly data to be made available. After six months they are depersonalized and kept for five years in the archive of EL.AS. The unit's Special Service, so they're then destroyed and erased. There is also the last article on the entry into force of the law. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, too. It was an absolute application of time by you. Ladies and gentlemen, I think you have seen that the system for speakers has been opened for some time now. Now Mr Athanasios Davakis, rapporteur of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are debating is the establishment of a legislative framework for the transmission, storage, processing and use of nominal passenger records for purposes relating to the fight against terrorism and other serious crimes. Every institutional framework, as we have mentioned in the committee that has been drafted by the bill, which concerns the collection of citizens' personal data for law enforcement, is an exercise of balance between the need to safeguard public security and the protection of civil rights. On this basis, this draft law needs to be assessed on the basis of the following five criteria. First criterion: Will the proposed collection of PNR data - Passenger Name Record - contribute to improving the level of security enjoyed by citizens? The answer is that both terrorist organisations and organised crime are basically using international air transport as a means of facilitating the design and execution of terrorist attacks and criminal acts. In the last 15 years there have been many examples of this. It is therefore extremely useful for the prosecution authorities to have a method of collecting and processing PNR data - as abbreviated - in order to distinguish between the tens of thousands of passengers travelling from and to the airports in our country, those persons who are likely to be involved in such illegal activities. Second criterion. Is it ensured that airlines will promote their passengers’ nominal records in a timely and valid manner? Here we are confronted, ladies and gentlemen, with the first major problem of this bill. In particular, Articles 3 and 16 stipulate that the Civil Aviation Authority, which was only created in 2016, will have the possibility to impose fines on air carriers, i.e. companies that are neglected to transmit PNR data. The problem identified in this regulation is the fact that the relevant presidential decree, which provides for the organisation of the Civil Aviation Authority, AAA, was adopted only last August and has not yet been implemented, so that it is not in operation today. The Minister recalls that we have put this in the committee debate and received the answer that the non-operation of the Civil Aviation Authority is not practically a brake on the implementation of the law, and neither is the passenger data unit still in existence. In short, it tells us not to worry about the delay in the implementation of this important part of the architecture of our bill, the tool of our bill, because the rest is not yet ready. This answer raises important questions about how the government understands the relevant timetables and at what stage are we talking about the work of establishing and organising the Passenger Unit. We are coming, as the committee has shown, in a positive spirit to the bill and we agree. However, we must, for our part, identify the weaknesses in the institutional tools that this bill will use in order to implement as a law. That is why I am saying this. In any case, we believe it would be useful to consider introducing a relevant transitional provision covering the situation until the creation and operation of the Civil Aviation Authority has been completed, because you realise that names, records, situations by individuals to a public authority, in a timely context, which we have to ensure, is why we are proposing. Criterion 3. Is the PNR data to be collected and processed in a rapid and effective way? During the meeting of the Committee we asked the Minister to outline the structure of the Passenger Unit, how it operates, the timetable for its establishment. I do not believe that it has been clear, because I understand the difficulties, but in any case the law must be clear and clear about its provisions. Fourth criterion. Is it ensured that PNR data are made available to the judicial, public and security authorities in a rapid and effective manner? Article 8 provides for the cooperation of the unit with other security services with a view to regularly reviewing and updating the criteria on the basis of which passengers are to be assessed. How, then, do we intend to ensure that this channel is operational and efficient? This question arises after the recent statements by a relevant minister in charge of security matters, such as Mr Kammenos, with whom he has made a headway in the operation of the system for coordinating the collection and supply of information at a recent meeting and in the cooperation of the structures of the state with it. When he says he doesn't communicate with the Department of Defense with the U.S. on the level of information, you realize that they put us in serious concern. Furthermore, uncertainty about this is also caused by the fact that the Government systematically avoids giving clear answers to the functioning of already existing structures of cooperation between security services, such as those of the Information Management Coordinating Council and the Information Council. It has been tabled by me for a long time. The known: no answer. Last criterion, on the basis of which this draft law needs to be assessed, is the question, ladies and gentlemen, whether these activities are carried out by methods and practices that ensure the absolute protection of the individual rights of citizens and, in particular, of the passenger public. The bill contains a variety of mechanisms aimed at protecting the citizens' personal data clearly, while our trust is increased by the fact that the Privacy Authority was an active part in the process of building this bill. I must also say and welcome the decision of the Minister a moment ago to eliminate the ambiguity of Article 9 in paragraph 3, which we had in committee is proposing. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is essentially a transposition into national law of a Community directive incorporating good international practices and techniques both in the fight against terrorism and organised crime and in the field of the protection of passengers' personal data. I feel that the government did not address it with due care, despite the positive climate, thus creating the need for significant interventions in many articles with a view to increasing its clarity and functionality. Many of them have been accepted, resulting in today, as I said before, to feel safe and optimistic in the co-formulation, if you like, of these provisions. Some of the changes have already been accepted. And I think that should continue in other bills. The New Democracy, therefore, as an excellence supporting the right of citizens to security, which recognises the need to protect individual rights, and which respects the European acquis in particular, will again vote positively on the principle of the bill. At the same time, it will insist that all changes be accepted, much of which have already been made. I therefore believe that this creates a favourable perspective in terms of air transport safety and overall safety in matters relating to them, which the draft law is working on. In conclusion, I would like to say that the parliamentary representative, Mr Kefaliannis, will be thoroughly referred to in the amendments presented. I won't judge them right now. I believe that the most serious amendments, the most important ones, concern issues which clearly promote, prejudge the election period in which we have come, part of which we welcome again. And I want to believe that the election period, in which we have come, will be much shorter than what we expected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, too. Mr. Carras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u13	Mr President, it seems that the government has not tolerated the temptation and has brought a number of amendments to a formal bill, such as the incorporation of a European directive. However, I must also start because of the short amount of time, from the amendments. There are amendments which could have been incorporated into a uniform tax draft, such as the amendment to the income tax for legal persons, such as the change to HNVIA, in order to enable the House to pass them through the parliamentary committees procedure, to be heard by bodies. We do not know whether the changes made by the government to strengthen the economy can and does so. It reduces 1% the income tax of legal persons and legal entities, i.e. those having a business activity of 1%, for the next four years. We would like to know how it affects the economy, whether the measure is developmental, or whether it is just a charismatic, once again provision, so that with a small piece you give it, there is a good word about the government, which has already exaggerated the world. We expect to see in a tax bill, which should have come, and provisions on income tax for natural persons. Relieve them as well from overtaxation. None of this. The only thing that has been done today was the two amendments. I have to say that I have a reservation, not with the general provision of the Constitution which prohibits the amendments to the main issue of the legislation being discussed in plenary, if the constitutional order in relation to Article 78 of the Constitution is respected, which, at least in its full structure, requires tax drafts on such matters to be self-evident and to be debated at ease and in detail. We, the Group of the Democratic Alliance, have already preceeded the government and have tabled, recall, an integrated relief plan and an integrated economic recovery plan entitled 'First economic recovery and social justice package'. The government is evangelizing the exit from the memoranda. My personal view is that there is no exit because the terms of the memoranda remain in full force for many years to come. To talk about exiting the memoranda we should also have talked about abolishing any memoranda or fulfilling, if you like, the conditions they have imposed. Not only did this happen, but we are still applying the terms of the memorandum for the next few years. Therefore, my assessment is that there is no way out of the memos. The way out of the memoranda would also mean a possibility of economic development in the country. Such an example, we don't have that kind of evidence. All we see is that there is a small return to those overcrowdings, which the government has already purified from the Greek people, and it is trying in the form of relief measures to give something back. Of course, the way it is done is craftless. The way it is done is particularly pro-electionary. A few days before Christmas, we'll give you a dividend. I have not even seen this dividend amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u14	The spirit of Christmas!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u15	Yes, of course, the spirit of Christmas, the spirit of grace, apply, Mr. Comrade, to later fruit the results of the Christmas spirit. But I'll say something and you'll forgive me. Even Scrooge embraced the Christmas spirit at the end. So don't repeat it, because I'll compare you to Scrooge. I don't speak personally. For God's sake.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u16	We're not gypsies.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u17	I am returning to the legislative work. I said, therefore, that we as a parliamentary group have moved forward to a more reciprocating, well-thinking proposals, which now concern global measures, not only the reduction of corporate taxation, but also drastically, from 29% to 20%, and even the same four-year depth. Not only did we propose the three-year income tax exemption for those who start new business. The special solidarity levy should be abolished for natural persons. There should be reduced rates. To avoid boredom, the trade fee should be abolished. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Georgios-Dimitrios Karras, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] All this has been filed in the House. It is now available to Members and the government should take the initiative to introduce our own proposal as a draft law to be discussed. But I'm going a little further, so I don't get too tired. I have to say this: given that the Greek people have been deeply troubled by economic policy, we will vote on these amendments relating to the reduction of income tax, even that minimum, to legal persons and to legal entities. We will also vote for the social dividend, even if we call it too slime compared to those which have been removed from the economy of the poor and not from the wealthy economy. I must say that large sums have been deducted from the economy of the poor. We will also be voting on the amendment on the reduction of HISPIA. In our view, it should be much more drastic, because there is also inconsistencies, if you like. While it budgets huge sums, i.e. 3,300,000, it budgets and registers the Ministry of Finance for HIS, at the end the collection is 2,600,000,000. I do not see the difference here - I have not yet been informed - in relation to the tax revenue from HNVIA, but if it receives 2,600,000 000, horizontal reductions will have to be made, not only those of 30% to the zero value of EUR 60,000. After all, prices are being kept, at least objectively, in the Greek state still high, and there we see that real estate is being exaggerated. I would like to go further, however, because much will be said by speakers, by rapporteurs, on the subject of the amendments. I would like to think about the main bill, which concerns the provision of passenger information from airlines to the competent Greek authority, which is now becoming the gentleman in a way or rather a lady of the game. In committee, I had expressed real reservations, if you like, because the airlines have this data. The airlines have the data, they are available. The public authorities, when the prosecutors, the judicial authorities, the independent anti-corruption authorities, all have access to data. Of course, the European Union has now come and proposed a directive which, if we assess and assess it, is a result of the well-known European compromise between countries. We therefore have a right-wing move towards Europe. Some governments support many political left-wings and especially right-wings, some others try to balance and a directive has come to give the balance. My personal opinion: We do not need to, there is a legal framework, but in any case, if it is here, let us assess it. This directive already reiterates substantial commitments from the country, which existed in the context of cooperation, in the context of judicial assistance, in the context of Europol. There was a little too much. Now, of course, a new data bank is being set up, and we only assign it to the police at the Greek Police Management and Intelligence Department. I like the title, you know, because today has also come an amendment that refers to the NSAs and to a new form of structures and qualifications for those who will serve the NSAs. Speaking of which, I would like to ask: the paradox, Minister, what does it need? What kind of a paradox now, in order to apply to hire, serve a public service? I can hear it kind of, but I don't want to make any more characterization. But let me move on. I said this in parentheses, since we were talking about the NSA before. However, I will return to my concern and insist on it. I have put him in committee on several occasions. It is for the controller of personal data, who is somehow the guardian of the protection of personal data within the police department that collects and processs them. I will repeat and insist: Why should he be a police officer? I'll give you another thought if you want. He answered, and the law includes it that the Privacy Authority is also a supervisory authority of the police service. So I ask, now, very simple, if you want to see those who have experience of public services. Solidarity between colleagues within services. What will the Privacy Authority control? Or a complaint made by a citizen or the report that the person responsible for the protection of personal data will give a police officer. I think that's what has to go, because it's not helping at all. I have no doubt that the police will be working properly, but that we do not allow this to happen, because it has the Home Affairs Service, it will be able to check that complaints are made, but that we do not put on an official footing, because we are ultimately limiting control, and it may be that serious infringements exist which do not reveal why they have been covered within the service. But this is a crusade. There is a conflict between the public interest, which is, of course, the fight against terrorism of organised crime. No one believes in us, but anywhere else - not only in the Chamber but outside of the hall - that crime can be zeroed or that terrorist acts of those who are determined to carry out them may be zeroed. Just limit them. If you wish, the directive is not superstitious as it will work. Repressive will have to help investigate, not prevent. But let's not stay on this. I therefore think that in this conflictual form, which exists between the public interest in crime prevention and the respective public interest in the protection of personal data, this will never be answered. The principle of the necessity and proportionality mentioned in both the explanatory statement to the law and the directive, but also in the text of the law that it will be observed, is impossible to observe, because it is always a green concept, a vague concept, which we can often give it no definition, so it will also be a simple proclamation. I believe that the intentions of the Europeans are good. For the Greek Government, I think it is an obligation. It also had a deadline which it did not respect, but I do not want to forget all this, and I go further. However, since it is a European obligation, it would be an exaggeration on our part from the Democratic Alliance, first of all, to give a negative vote. We will give the vote in principle. For some articles on which I saw some votes, I gave our views, we will not vote in favour. In any case, because we believe that the country should continue to have this European orientation and cooperation that we must have at a high level with the authorities of the European Union and the other member countries, we will, as I have said, give our vote in principle. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] To close - because I see the time has come - I must say this: we should not always be consistent with the decisions of the European Union from now on. We should now be critical in our thinking, and we should definitely put to the test everything that comes to legislation or to comply for this reason: even the directive itself, which we said we would vote in favour at first, is questioned by the European Court of Justice when it was called upon to give its opinion on a similar agreement between the European Union and Canada. You saw - and we are all aware - that the opinion issued by the European Court of Justice was negative not in itself, but in its terms, which confirms our position that certain conditions, as they come at the Government's initiative, should not be exceeded by those which have left discretion in the Member States. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u18	So do we. Mr Germenis, rapporteur for the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u19	Another European directive is to be incorporated into national legislation. This Directive is addressed to Directive 2016/68 on the use of data contained in the nominal passenger records ‘Passenger Name Record’ for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorist and serious crimes. In practice, this is about the institutionalisation of the electronic engraving, not only of Greek citizens, but also of all European citizens. The information collected shall be kept in a database. After a certain period of time PNR data will be anonymised by covering data that can serve as the direct identification of the passenger, for which names, address and contact details are given. The Directive provides that data shall only be transmitted on a case-by-case basis and for specific purposes, such as the prevention, detection and investigation of terrorist and other serious criminal offences and the prosecution of those responsible. Reference to prevention and detection is paving the way for the appropriate use of data by both national and European authorities. Member States should be able to collect and process PNR data by economic operators that are not transporters, such as travel agencies and travel organisers, providing travel related services, including flight bookings. So it's all recorded. Everybody's being watched. Within the directive there are guarantees for the protection of personal data and there is supposed to be an explicit ban on the processing of PNR data, revealing racial or ethnic origin, political opinions, religious or philosophical beliefs, participation in trade unions, health, sexual life or sexual orientation of a person. In fact, there is an explicit ban on processing. This does not, however, mean that these data will not be collected and recorded, as the processing and another collection will be carried out. So everything that is supposed to be protected and for which guarantees are supposed to exist, all passenger data, will be at the disposal of secret services, security authorities and various structures of power. I'll say some thoughts about the articles. We had said a number of things to the committee on Article 6(2), which describes in detail the actions taken by the Passenger Data Unit. This article sets out the obligation of the Ministry of Citizen Protection to provide annual information to the European Committee of Statistics on PNR data, as well as for any modification to the operation of the Passenger Data Unit. This, apparently, is a service obligation. In fact, it is a system of supervision by the Greek authorities, a system of specific control by the authorities of the European Union. Article 7 regulates the assignment to a member of the National Unit of Passenger Elements, which fulfils specific conditions, has specific qualifications and enjoys full independence in the performance of the tasks, the exclusive employment and the competence of the Data Protection Officer to supervise the processing of PNR data and the implementation of the relevant safeguards. The importance and specificity of this position should be underlined here and therefore the personal status of the person to be taken over and similar guarantees for his or her operational independence must be fully guaranteed. But here, a question arises: Who will control him? How far will his responsibilities arrive? Because as it appears that it will in practice be possible to act without any kind of control. Article 8 defines how exactly PNR data is processed. We have raised concerns about the criteria for evaluating the data. Within the directive there are guarantees for the protection of personal data and there is supposed to be an explicit ban on the processing of PNR data revealing a person's racial origin, political opinions, religious or philosophical beliefs, membership of a trade union organisation, health, sexual life or sexual orientation. In fact, there is a reference for expressly speaking for processing. However, it does not mean that these data will not be collected, they will not be recorded, since the processing is not the same as the collection. It is understood that in practice all passenger data will be made available to secret services, security authorities and various structures of power. Article 11 defines the procedure to be followed in the exchange of information between Member States concerning PNR data and the results of processing thereof in the case of identification of persons. In essence, the framework for the movement of information on PNR data between Passenger Units, Member States and other competent authorities is regulated. There is concern here that we have initially put in the pretext of preventing and investigating serious crimes. The way forward for the proper use of data by both national and European authorities, as well as by the authorities of other countries of the European Union, is opening up, and where this ends. Article 15 defines the framework for the protection and respect of personal data in the application of the provisions of the draft law under discussion. This is, in fact, something that is not practically the case. It is almost impossible to guarantee the protection of passengers' personal data, but at the same time, where these data will be circulated and where they will end up. Let's go back in time. Who have basically built Islamic terrorism? Who trained and equipped the Taliban? Who really helped to make the jihadists gigantic? The Americans, when they wanted rebels in Afghanistan or elsewhere to hit the Soviets at that time, gave weapons and know-how to those who used as much as they wanted and when the wider geostrategic data changed, took their own path. All over the world citizens always have a concern about when and where terrorists can be hit by Islamist terrorists. Safety in flights, then, yes, fight against terrorism, yes. But not all of them being suspicious and their data circulate here and there. The secret services know who is involved in terrorist organisations, they know how and where the Islamists, who are hematizing their acts of terrorism all over Europe and not just where they move. Is there a need for all this to be recorded, in spite of all the passengers? Let there be no delusion. In practice it is almost impossible to ensure the protection of passengers' personal data, but at the same time, at the same time, where these data will be released and where they will end up. Unfortunately, we have witnessed many cases that, despite the various protection measures that have been taken at times, civil personal data have resulted online, easily accessible to anyone. The gold incision must be found to ensure anonymity, but at the same time the safety of European citizens must be ensured. There is no reason to exchange the data of citizens who are not concerned with the authorities or who have no convictions against them or are not suspected of terrorist acts. On the contrary, illegal immigrants, Islamists, suspects of terrorist acts or even those who are involved in support networks, the responsible services around the world know them. Let them deal with their own data, let them make use of the databases and the information they have, and let them not deal with how to skate European citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u20	Mr Stavros Tassos, rapporteur of the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, we want to denounce the government which once again brings important amendments at the last minute and in irrelevant bills. Of course, we are not surprised by this practice, because it is a fact that it has been overtaken in this field by its teachers. Ladies and gentlemen, the JRC voted against both the principle and the articles in the committee debate this bill incorporating into national law the European Union Directive 2016/681 on the use of data contained in the nominal passenger records, the PNR, Passenger Name Record, on the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorist and serious crimes, as reported. The reason we did so is because in the name of protection against terrorism, the Government and the parties that voted for it, they accept the generalised record of all those travelling on board an aeroplane, since, as stated in the explanatory statement, the PNR is used to 'evaluate passenger risk and identify unknown persons', i.e. persons for whom there is no suspicion at present but could possibly be of interest to law enforcement authorities. As the representative of the Athens Bar Association, the Deputy Professor of the Law School of Law at the University of Athens Giorgos Giannopoulos, said, we are all considered potential suspects. I, if I travel from Athens to Thessaloniki, consider myself a potential suspect. He later added that the PNR now concerns persons travelling by plane, but later, if that is not enough, it may be for those travelling by boat and later by bus or train etc. Later - I would say - and with their own car, which, of course, is now de facto done by using the GPS, etc. This is basically the aim of this directive and of this bill, to legalise what is de facto done so that the file is fully and legally regulated. It is amazing how he violates the privacy of the citizens, which is supposed to be the alpha and the omega of your urban democracy, when in Article 5 item 16 F, you write: "All information on luggage". This means from what newspaper or magazine we read to what we wear underwear. Do not tell me that this information is not included because 'all' means 'all'. Now comes the open letter sent to all Members by the civil non-profit company ‘HOMO DIGITALIS’, which expresses its grave concern about this bill, which does not guarantee the guarantees that the Court of Justice of the European Union has identified in its opinion No 1/15 of 26 July 2017 on the European Union-Canada passenger data. In particular, six points shall be reported: First, the passenger data unit is the same entity that keeps the data, EL.AS, the Greek Police, and asks for access to the data from its functional division. In other words, he's audited and audited. Secondly, there is a lack of system for recording PNR data, i.e. uncontrolled access to them. I mean, outdated vine, that's! Third, there is a lack of prior judicial review for the provision of PNR data to pre-inquiry and other authorities. In other words, there is access to passenger data from all the national pre-reviews and other authorities provided for. Drunk vine again! Fourthly, the maintenance time of PNR data for five years concerns all passengers and not just those who are judged dangerous. Again undisturbed vine! Fifth, the child PNR transmitted, not clearly and accurately described and cannot be all available information. Mercy! And the kids? Sixth, PNR data, while supposedly forbidden, may indirectly reveal religious beliefs, but also the state of health of the passenger, when the passengers' dietary preferences are mentioned. Challenge meals for Muslims, cossier meals for Jews, diabetic meals, etc. Now, not that if they improve, the substance of the directive, as well as of the bill, will change just this, but others, they show that the government has exceeded every limit to supporting the interests of the dictatorship of the bourgeoisie. Ladies and gentlemen, the individual and group terrorism that you are supposed to be fighting is the result of two factors: firstly, social inequality and social injustice; and secondly, the low level of awareness of the causes and how to deal with the problem by the subjects of social inequalities and social injustice, which leads them to want to become carnivores in the place of the Caliph, to take the position of a few exploiters and not by organized mass struggle finally to abolish the classes and exploitation of human beings. The widening of social inequalities and social injustice, i.e. the rich becoming richer and the poorer are a structural element of the capitalist system. In order for there to be few rich bourgeoismen, who are becoming less and less, there must be the many poor workers producing wealth and becoming more and more, otherwise the system is no longer capitalism, that is to say, exploitation of human beings. At the same time, the bourgeoisie to maintain, but also to broaden its power to exercise state terrorism to bring the people into line with the dominant political choices by threatening and using the state of law and its mechanisms, state and often state-run. At the same time, at international level, the right of NATO, the European Union, the United States and other powerful capitalist countries to intervene in other sovereign states is the modern international imperialist terrorism which the peoples of our region are tragically experiencing and not only. In this context, the unconsciousness of the causes of the problem and of the way it is dealt with, key elements of which are micro- and unintentional impatientness of the subjects of injustice, leads them to solutions of individual and group terrorism, solutions to which secret services are actively involved, whether they organise or use mechanisms and persons for terrorist activity, often with religious, racial, or national cloak. After all, it is well known that Islamic terrorism in all the manifestations - Taliban, Al-Qaeda, ISIS - has excavated it, financed, equipped and continues to do so, when it serves their interests, the US, NATO, the European Union, which is of course your allies. The secret services, of course, do not do so intently, but by serving the interests of the bourgeoisie, which exploits terrorist acts as a pretext for limiting individual and collective rights, as well as for dealing with popular movements at national and international level. On the other hand, we have the massive, revolutionary violence or the violence of social liberation and other popular movements. People's movements are of a peaceful nature, stemming from their fair goals. At the same time, as history showed, they resorted to using and using popular violence when the opponent threatened with extinction or when trying to bend the resistance of a small minority - notable - he uses all means to stand in power. Examples include the American Revolution in 1775, the French Revolution in 1789, the Greek Revolution in 1821, Paris Communa in 1871 and the October Revolution in 1917. Ladies and gentlemen, for these reasons, we are not only voting against, but we are calling for the immediate withdrawal of this bill. Now on the amendments, from the seven that have been tabled, I will be placed on both sides and on the others, our parliamentary representative will be placed. The Government's Amendment No 1808 concerning the relocation to 251 of the Health Service of the Fire Corps is the second measure on the functioning of the Health Service of the Fire Corps. Initially, the Government granted the ambulances that the Firefighting Officer had in the EAW. These ambulances were intended to deal immediately with fire-fighting personnel during fires. This new merger measure of the Health Service of the Fire Corps with the 251 General Aviation Hospital is part of the Government's general policy on mergers of health units to reduce health costs. This merger, like all previous ones, has shown that the final result for the provision of health services will be negative for nursing and medical staff, as well as for patients as a whole, regarding the medical and nursing services provided. The solution lies in the support of both the 251 General Aviation Hospital and the support with the appropriate personnel of the Health Service of the Fire Corps. We shall vote 'the present' in this amendment. With regard to the amendment to the tables of firemen for the House, first of all, one would expect that from such a catastrophic anti-missile period with nine nine human victims and huge damage to property, infrastructure and natural wealth, the Government would take more drastic measures at the expense of the people's outcry and would not deplete its interventions only in the renewal of the tables of attendants, successful in the tendering of test fire extinguishers and seasonal fire extinguishers for their classification in the category of five-year-old fire extinguishers. Seven years have passed since the test fire extinguishers were classified and those who are still waiting for them to be recruited, even though the needs of the House in human resources are enormous, which the government itself is obliged to admit through the explanatory statement of the amendment itself. The same applies to the overlapping seasonal firefighters, who see the painting renewed for the third time, but this time for a year and not two, a time that goes hand in hand - not at all accidentally, of course - and with the last anti-nuclear period they will be working in the Fire Corps, that is, in 2019. The JRC has intervened on several occasions for both categories on the permanent and final solution to their work hostage. Just a couple of months ago he filed a question about the prominent firefighters and just a month and a half ago about the five-year-old and seasonal firefighters. The amendment tabled by our party last February on the work of restoring all seasonal and five-year-old fire extinguishers to the structures of Civil Protection and the Forest Service is timely as ever with staff needs in the field of the prevention and management of forest ecosystems of anti-nuclear, anti-military and anti-Semitism protection. Although the government brings this amendment to the vote for purely pre-election reasons - that is clear - we will vote for the reason that, with the struggles to be conducted by the two categories involved, there is a hope that the road to their work rehabilitation will be opened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty students and students and three educational attendants from the 4th High Leivadas. Forty lads, then! The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos, rapporteur for the Independent Greeks, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. I think that compliance with this directive is self-evident and I would like to welcome positively the fact that almost most parties - mainly, however, the Officerial Vice-Population Party - will vote in favour of this adjustment, which in our times, with what is happening in the global community, I think is imperative. We too are in favour, and I think I do not have much more to say, because the rapporteurs have analysed them in detail. However, I would like to say a little bit about the two amendments and remind you that there were eleven commitments made by the government in Belgium, which some of them were used. Some people were saying things that I don't want to remember. There are already three legislations, and today two other amendments come in. One is 29% to 25% over four years for large enterprises, and the other is for HIS. Both are very important, they were commitments and they are being legislated today. I would like to make a comment here and say that although we are listening to various opposition krone of the type 'what are you doing'? - I do not want to reproduce them - at the end of these commitments - one by one, I have called it 'the torture of the drop' - they are passed, they become laws of the state. They are therefore not words, they are adaptation to reality and they are tangible proof that they were not just promises, they are actions. I just want to say that it is about middle and low incomes, mainly low incomes. But this is also a practice - let us say - 'I can now do it and I do it'. You're gonna tell me, who has real estate of less than 60,000 euros? There are too many of them! For them it is not 10%, it can rise to 20%, to 30% and to 40%, as well as to a large part of medium income. As far as today's bill and its amendments are concerned. But I cannot resist the temptation to deal with topicality. I think the universe is buzzing around us for too many things, which I think it's worth the effort to get in line. I would like to say anything to remind you that it has not only been for a year and three months in this plenary session when the question of freshmen for Mr Papantoniou was being discussed. One year and three months! It is not 15 years since this story has been delayed to the House. And I listened to the press screams for crafting, criminalizing political life, mud in the fan, and he went out and said. I have them in front of me, because you know the writings stay. But I won't be tempted to say who they were called. And they were not only KINAL MPs, they were also New Democracy MPs. I have their names, I keep them, it's none of my business, but to name names right now. It's just a mentality. When Yannis Papantoniou was convicted, I say again that man has not been tried and I wish him the presumption of innocence in the best possible way - absolute silence! Kich! One of them didn't come out! - by those who said what I say to you, "Do not make a mistake?" Nothing! And when they saw that there was assistance from five countries - for the first time there was assistance from Switzerland -, when the name of Papantoniou was crossed by Boryans - from the Lagard list we learned her name - and then Mrs Tulupaki went to France after thirteen years - and had a fight for people in this Chamber not to take over - why is that? - Mrs Tulupaki, the prosecutor of corruption - silence after the detention of Mr. Papantoniou. In fact, Mr Papantoniou is good when he put us in EMU and we call on him, but we do not know him about the freshmen case! A proverb in the villages says: At the hanged man's house they don't talk about rope. Why am I saying it? Some KINAAL MPs have recently gone to the Areo Ice and "realed" the issue - in the last three, four days is first - the C4I. Oh, of the miracle, then, the C4I theme has been raised! In fact, they said there was a distraction for the Prime Minister then and that these things were not allowed. In fact, they gave the public access to an act which does not incriminate any of the three, the current President of the Republic, etc. Then, of course, they took it back. They understood their mistake, but it was too late. As for Byron, Polydora and Marcoyannakis, I don't need to tell you much. Even the hardest opponents of Vyron Polydora in the hardest corners of the Greek Parliament never questioned his spirit. Marcoyannakis himself, however, who has no reason to defend him, asks himself to investigate this case. And it has nothing to do with it. Of course, it has nothing to do with it. They're the ones who received it. What happened before, I think it's worth it to see now. And when I say "now", I mean by evidence. The interrogator, Mr. Orphanides, who I would like to believe is doing his job very well, has raised this issue in a way that I think there is no question that those who are confusing in this story certainly are not the ones who wanted the five, six KINAL MPs to target. And I can only explain with details: On 5 November 2018 the former Secretary-General of Armaments, Mr Vassilikos, who, in passing, remained a secretary after the New Democracy period, went to the interrogator. So the interrogator asked him specific questions. First of all, I would like to say something about Mr Vassiliou, because they came out yesterday and said that he was indicted, that he was trying to alleviate his position, and so on. Indeed, Mr Vassilikos has a connection with justice. However, I would like to remind the well-meaning Members of KINAL that the biggest scandals in both Italy and America and elsewhere have unfortunately been cleared up by not vague people. Neither Zigras was improper, nor Candace, nor Bartese, to say names revealing the scandals. Therefore, the argument that he too is involved... I, I am not saying, may - and I wish it to this man - be acquitted. But he knew what he was talking about. I consider it naive, therefore, to anyone who considers that political persons have not been financed for any armaments supply. And he says it's a man who was his job. Number: "SAIC", which gave less money to the public, took the job. And he'd get 157 million euros. In other words, the price to be collected by SAIC, the US company, was around 157 million. The remaining 98 million would have been received by SIEMENS. The amount of the compensatory benefits awarded to Siemens was 80 million. In a strange way, there are over 18 million. "My personal appreciation" - says the King - "is that the then Prime Minister knew and knows about illegal payments to supply C4I, particularly to the then Minister of National Defence". I'm not making names intentionally. I don't want to stumble. I don't care about that. It is naive to think that the country's prime ministers do not know whether the defence ministers are being bribed. No one's talking at a cafeteria. There's a man who trusted him with two different governments. And that's in the case-file. Leave the papers. Let's go down. Mr. Orphanides - this year's interrogator - is trying to push and learn. For those of you who do not know - and we are obliged to respond - Peijs was responsible for the marketing of the THALES consortium which did not get the job even though he offered a greater offer. Listen to that, too. He mobilized, though he had a better offer. He asks, then, persistently, that this year's interrogator, Mr. Pezzas, tells him: "Do you know whether the award of the C4I, etc. have been bribed...?’ And he's answering. The witness's answer is monumental: "If this had happened in the United States, the entire Ministries would have entered prison, because it could not be justified because it has done so." It obviously meant giving a job to a company with a worse offer. That's what common sense says. On the basis of common sense and the specific infringements of the procurement legislation, these infringements could not be justified without any other incentive. I'm transferring you exactly the dialogues from the case-file. And then we come to the secretary of Mr. Christoferkos, who you know is being released to Germany. Here it is recalled that Mr Pezas, by letter dated 28 February 2003 to the then Prime Minister in the case-file, incorrectly described the decision of 27 February. This decision, like the relevant recommendation of the Negotiations Committee which seems to be followed by the CSCE, is wrong, says Pezaas, the man representing the company that gave more money and did not get the job. He says: "Incorrectly he did not take into account the critical assessment of economic bidders," by letter he sent to the Prime Minister at the time. But listen a little bit further. English and dozens of questions arise from the ongoing meetings and telephone contacts that Michael Christoforkos had at that time with the tops of the then PASOK government and with the office of the former Prime Minister, in particular the critical period during which the government would end up in the security system. On 14 October 2002, the two joint ventures submitted final tenders, which were closed. In addition to all ethics, however, on the same day Mrs. Tsakalou confirms an appointment of the chief Christoforikos in the Pentagon with Mr. Papantoniou, along with the technical adviser of SAIC, Steven Weles. A few days later, on October 18 and 21, the then powerful man of "SIEMENS" had another meeting, again at the Ministry of National Defence, this time with the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Defence, Mr. Tyrolos. Christoferkos again sees Giannos Papantoniou on October 21st. The tenders finally open on 18 November and are returned by the government at the time. And it is done: On November 5th, there is a call at Christoforkos' office from Papantoniou's office and on November 20th Katerina Tsakalou, by order from Christoforikos, communicates with Michael Chrysochoidis' particularity to set up a meeting as soon as possible. On November 20, Christofer has lunch with Welles, and a meeting is arranged with the Secretary-General of Arms. There was a call at Mr. Papantoniou's office for a new date and he went out and said. A lot of Christmas meetings with Yannos. And Tsukatos has infinite tets - a - with the fugitive, now, a powerful man of "SIEMENS". I am making a clarification here: Mr Tsukatos was a man of the Prime Minister at the time, he was not a man of Mr Papantoniou, for those who at least know the story. Listen to this: As Mrs Tsakalou said, it is not only with the PASOK's first-classists, but also with the office of the Prime Minister at the time. Deposits are in the case-file, which is 20 thousand pages. To be educated! On 6 November Mr Christoforkos received a call from the office of the then Prime Minister, unknown why and what content. The frequent and close contacts of Christopher and Tsukatos cause dizziness. For example, according to Mrs Tsakalou's statement on 3 February, a Tsukatos call to Christoforikos is being made. On 11 February a Christmas Directive was recorded to be called Tsukatos. A Christmas Directive was recorded on 12 February to call again Tsukatos. And the same day he receives a call from Tsukato. On the 14th, on February 17th, 18th, there is a Christmas directive for Tsukatos to be called again. Let's hear one more thing. It's interesting from now on. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I need a minute, Mr President. Do I have it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u24	Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u25	It's just not about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u26	It's got a lot to do with it. He's on the news. It may be none of your business directly, but it's news and plays from morning to night. Listen, is there any involvement of the Prime Minister then? I have to admit that the answers from the witnesses are unclear. The Special Investigator identified in the diaries produced by the secretary of the former strong man, Ms. Tsakalou, a strange meeting, in a village, by the former Prime Minister. That is why he asked her in a supplementary statement he gave on November 14, 2017, a year ago. Your name Vassilis Kanellepoulou is known? He was a helicopter driver and may have had something to do with Korakhori, where he was the villa of the then Prime Minister. Mrs Tsakalou said, 'yes', 'I remember'. It did not respond clearly, I have to admit it. I mean, and I'm ending this: did he have to be investigated or not? This is all because the Prime Minister at the time was ordered to open accounts. I'm the last person to frame someone when I don't have any evidence. Was he supposed to be after all this? Dizziness caused the Christmas date with Tsukato. Those who knew the anthropogeography of PASOK at that time, Tsukatos was a man of the Prime Minister, was not of the Papantonius. And the noun was! In conclusion, I would like to remind you of something else - and I am ending, Mr President, I have misused your kindness - because some minds are getting air from something "prestitious" polls that give ten units, eleven units, fifteen, I don't know, etc. I would remind you: 'METRON ANALYSIS' in the referendum. In the easiest poll on the planet - it was a "yes" and a "no" - the twenty-two differentities were seen by METRON ANALYSIS, in a mandate from "NEA", at the limits of the statistical error of 46% -49%. Second survey of "PUBLIC ISSUE" on the referendum: The twenty-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two. As far as the credibility of recent polls is concerned, some people think that the polls have already cleaned up. And to say something else, especially about the "PRODUCT" because I'm in the health examination. He was getting money from the CDC. And no one ever explained why this offer stopped after 2015. Even half of the euro has never been accepted - in a journalist, a media, a newspaper or a channel - by the CEDEFOP. Thank you and thank you for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u27	Thank you. The rapporteur for the River, Mr Psarian, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u28	Thank you very much, Mr President. The debate here in this House is always very interesting, because we always talk 'to the point', which we say in Kosani. I like the fact that we are having various press conferences - Parliamentary press - 'what it looks like' and we are analyzing various issues. I'm going to continue with sports news. [[Laughers from the New Republic ward]] Here we are incorporating into the national legislation of this directive the use of data contained in the nominal passenger records to prevent, detect, investigate and prosecute terrorist and serious crimes. This law, combined with the incorporation of the European Network and Information Security Directive submitted to Parliament and the relatively recently adopted General Data Protection Regulation, combine a package of reform of the Data Protection Legislation in Greece and the European Union as a whole, while the Data Processing Directive is also expected by the authorities. The provisions of the new law shall apply to the transmission by air carriers of the data provided in the nominal passenger records of flights within or outside the European Union. Here is an issue if a flight from Kosani to Athens, one that I mentioned before in Kosani, or from Rethymnon or from Heraklion to Alexandroupolis - if there are such flights - is within the European Union. I think it is and we should see it as a whole in any movement within the European Union, regardless of whether flights are within the country itself, because there are problems there too. There are problems with travel to Greece, and not only with air transport, that is, not only through air travel. As pointed out in the text of the directive, objectives are, inter alia, the safety, the protection of the life and safety of persons and the creation of the legal framework for data protection when treated by the competent authorities. The new one in relation to the processing of other categories of personal data is that the assessment allows for the identification of persons who have no suspicions of involvement in a terrorist act or of a serious crime prior to the assessment and must therefore be further examined by the competent authorities. Undoubtedly, the serious and organised crime that is escalating everywhere and at all times - in all countries and within Europe, in particular terrorism at international level - is now a global threat, is constantly growing in complexity and is evolving technologically. It may also be in front of the methods of dealing with it. We trust that the rules and the functioning of the European Union and, thankfully, that we belong to it. Many people would like us to leave the European Union or not to have the European Union. Many are trying to dismantle the euro area and the European Union. We are in the completely opposite direction, and we have said it five hundred thousand times. Fortunately Greece is a member of the European Union and indeed of its hard core. We'll tell you every chance. We therefore trust that the rules for the functioning of the European Union are respected, and we believe that the controls, the processing of data and their transfer will be carried out with absolute respect to the citizens, and we do not have any phenomena and situations which may be from very long anticipation, to very great suffering and serious errors and omissions or misuse of the directives and methods of dealing with such phenomena that violate human rights with personal data, etc. What surprises us once again is that SYRIZA brings such a bill integrating a European directive, SYRIZA, who, in any such case, was legislating similar laws in the past, was tearing up his clothes and tearing out his hair - massively, indeed - by "Not on cameras", "All is a breach of personal data", "It is a violation of human freedoms and human rights". Under no circumstances has he ever agreed. He did so on the occasion of events - and I told the committee - sporting nature, such as violence on the stadiums. Many years ago, I was here in the House we were discussing in committee and in plenary about the placement of security cameras on the stadiums to record incidents of violence and events other than athletics and activity. We also had such phenomena yesterday that are creepy, tragic and unacceptable. SYRIZA has always opposed such methods. He has never voted for anything like that, like many other things he has never voted for, which is now very easily, because some of them are submitted by him from abroad, some blackmailers, loan sharks and their local lacquers, of course the German-Christian dolls here. Let us point out here that serious risks of committing terrorist attacks and crimes exist not only by transporting passengers through flights, as we have said, but also by all the possible ways in Greece, particularly by sea, but also by land everywhere. Restriction of legislation on air transport only faces a fragmented and in part a major problem in every type of movement. Restriction on air transport alone - I say again - is a small part of the problem. Article 6 of the draft law, which concerns the establishment and operation of the National Passenger Elements Unit, already provides for the possibility of staffing the service established by port diversions so that we can also discuss the extension of the scope of the law and flights to the waterways when they are finally implemented. We are positive towards the draft law, while maintaining some reservations. We hope to remain in these directives and not to start doing so, as we usually do, a'small arrangement' of these directives. We also hope to stop at some point, at some point, from teasing unrelated legislation on unrelated issues within unrelated bills, for which SYRIZA in the past won the "Samarovenezes" and other sold donors, who actually brought seventy amendments to a bill, while now we bring only seven hundred to every bill. There is a clear progress! Two of the today's amendments are very important, that of HISPIA and that of business taxation. We have made concrete proposals on the drastic reduction of corporate taxation, to motivate new businesses to be set up rather than to be ravaged to close the old ones and to squeeze them out in order to appoint and fund our 'clients'. The Greek economy, the private sector, produces wealth. The only area that produces wealth is this. The state is not a business. Never entrepreneurially has any state been justified and has not been able to do important things. Very small are the exceptions. Again, the wealth-generating sector is the private sector, it is business, it is the free professionals, it is the people who work outside of the state who really work, because it is being evaluated and if at some point scratched, they go home. In the public sector, however, scratchers affect the functioning of the public sector and their slashing colleagues. Because there are also the civil servants who are torn apart and who are decent and who are slaves and who are consistent. So those who really offend those who work cannot assess them why we forbid it. And why are we forbidden? Because we want to pluck public with customers, with modesty and with people who can do nothing else in their lives than lick plucked aprons to get into the public eye. The amendment to reduce HISPIA and the amendment to reduce corporate taxation are very important. And we would vote for them if we discussed them in a specific bill and through a specific procedure. Because they're much more serious than the bill, in which we bring porn. And why are we bringing them porn? In order not to have much debate, which says, for example, that for the reduction of corporate taxation it was planned that 29% would go directly to 26% or 25%. But in order to get rid of the pension cut, we have done this and the unit - by 2022, instead of making a drastic reduction in corporate taxation in order to stimulate the development of businesses - which produce wealth - from which we can appoint and pay public workers, to the public bodies, to the services, but we deserve to work and be paid, deserve to be tested and appointed to serve the state and hold three and four degrees, but we do not give them the opportunity by means of ASEAN or other procedures to claim their entry into public service, except for those who are tempted as customers because they cannot do anything else in their lives and because it is useful to steal a few bits. Other colleagues have done that in the past. But this first-time government, Panos Kammenos and Terrence Quick, I expected to do other things. We've been waiting. People generally expected to do other things. Some of these had clearly described in the past, opposing the previous ones, which forty years the average citizen gave 45% to one and 45% to the other. Those two with the forty-fives muddled the country. SYRIZA has corrected all these bad texts that existed. In fact, some citizens who were constantly voting for them, in turn perhaps, or firmly, gave forty - fives to each one of these two pillars of the dual-party operation, now those who voted for them fifteen, sixteen, eighteen times each want to be sent to prison. And hang them now, tonight, and without trial, possibly. Because they screwed up the country. They stole. Two, three, five, ten people. They brought the country to ruin. The rest of you are not to blame. And we have cultivated to the average citizen just this thing of anthropophagia and the extermination of political opponents, because they have muddled the country, and we have now thrown it lifesaving. And we are lowering ENPIA just before the elections, and we are reducing business tax with its suffering. We will not vote on any of the amendments, fair and unfair, right and wrong. We shall vote'representations' in the amendments. It is in our programme and the reduction of corporate taxation and the drastic reduction in ENPIA, which the left-wing government of Panos Kammenos would abolish. I do not know if the average voter of this left-wing government of the left-wings remembers it. We will support the European directive which will be incorporated into Greek legislation because it needs to be done and because it is good to keep in mind who is going, where it goes and what it is carrying with him. They have weeped manoeuvres and we have lamented victims in too many countries and within Europe, hundreds of victims, because there was no prevention and there was no process of protecting the democratic culture. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over, Mr Nikolaos BOUTSIS]] Democracy is not the best city in the world. He's got very big defects, but it's the best thing that man's invented. Until we find something better, democracy must protect itself and give it this ability and opportunity to protect itself without exercising preventive repression, without exerting repression and human rights violations, without exercising all these distortions of government that we have experienced in totalitarian regimes, left and right, in all the black and red juntas around the globe. We have seen them, we know them very well, and we must be against them, although some of us love such totalitarian regimes and some others also love totalitarian methods and regimes as they do. But democracy must protect itself. It's over and out. We will vote on the incorporation of the European directive and we will vote 'at present' for the reasons I have explained in all the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u29	Thank you. Please, Mr Saridis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u30	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President-in-Office, Mr Chakaloto, we are pleased to see you in the Chamber today. But it would be nice to see you a Monday, Mr Minister, in the timely questions. We haven't seen you Monday around six months. We'll be done in a little while. Mondays will be over. Let Mr. Chakalotos answer. Ladies and gentlemen, there is one question whose answer does not concern us as much as we should. On the contrary, we all behave in this Chamber as if the question should not be heard, despite the fact that some of us here haunts us and doesn't let us sleep at night. This is a question that journalists do not ask politicians at the panels and that pollers do not include in their polls. They don't ask her, because they just don't know how to manage the answer they'll get. This is a question as simple as it is difficult. A question which should normally be asked by those who should be employed every day is all of us three hundred in this Chamber. This is the question that I am asked by the citizens of my city of Thessaloniki when I go to the cafes to meet them, to discuss. They're just people, you know. Tired people. Poor, frustrated, but decent. Human pensioners, people unemployed, people of all ages growing children. Which their dreams have been demolished in these eight years by the memorials that our country has been through and experienced by this people. Ladies and gentlemen, it is these people who are not part of our democracy who are absent. They are these people who, without knowing, in their abstention, define the election result. "We have a democracy, Mr. Saridis?" They're asking me. "How much democracy do you think we have, Mr. Saridis? Is the level - you are a representative in there - of the democracy that we have, Mr Saridis?' Ladies and gentlemen, do we have democracy in this country, yes or no? Do we dare ask the Greeks what they think? If they ask, do we have what to answer? Instead of looking for enemies of Greek democracy in the pirates' party, instead of chasing Thanasis the Gounaris and Lafazani, because they set up an anti-Austrian anti-Austria anti-Austria anti-Austria, should we seek ways to overthrow this negative situation and rebuild the confidence of Greek citizens in Greek democracy? We have a democracy, ladies and gentlemen. It may not be what we want, but we have and we can make it better, as long as we want and know how we do it better. Instead of chasing the pirates' party, they were calling us to tell us the opinion of today's bill, too? Did we hear the citizens? We asked them to give us their opinion on today's bill? We are being called here today in the name of cybersecurity, in the name of protecting ourselves against terrorism, against organised crime, to draw a line between our freedom and our security. How much of our freedom do we have to surrender to feel safe? Can anyone really be free if he feels safe? As far as the draft law is concerned, there is no need to guarantee the protection of the individual rights and personal data of the citizens, and there is a doubt as to whether the principle of proportionality is respected with regard to the restriction of rights to the protection of personal data for reasons of public security, prevention and detection of crime. We also have reservations about the compliance with the principle of data minimisation, as well as the principle of pseudonymisation and anonymisation, which is one of the basic principles of personal data protection law. State services acquire a full profile of justice and injustice. They are smuggling suspects or non-sensitives and there is, in our opinion, insufficient safeguarding the prohibition of further processing purposes, as well as further processing operations. The purpose is excellent for security reasons, but ultimately in the name of a false security is sacrificed without democratic dialogue, without consulting individual freedoms, and this security on its own, neither is it ultimately guaranteed. What are we legislating here today? We asked the citizens? Do they know? So, because we have a European orientation for most parties in this House, we are taking a directive, we are not working on it as this directive should be, and we are presenting it to the Greeks? The directive, Minister, leaves a great deal of discretion to the Member States and the Greek Government has not made proper use of this discretion, nor has it received the necessary legislative provisions to increase the level of protection of personal and personal rights, as allowed by the European legislature. Give an example, to understand it. Although the European directive does not require it, the Greek draft law extends the monitoring net to internal flights and not only flights to and from the European Union. It does this by adding two innocent dictionaries to Article 2, 'flights within or outside the European Union'. This means, therefore, that apart from the passenger of Riyadh - Athens, the passenger of Athens - Rhodes will also be recorded. In other words, the number of enclaved Greeks, European or non-citizens, is growing geometrically, without even the symphony leaf of jihadists coming from the Middle East. I want to make two brief comments on the amendments. The general number 1808 and special 1 concerning the operation of the Health Service of the Fire Corps, as well as the 1810 that regulates issues of the five-year obligation fire extinguishers, are in agreement with and we will vote in favour of them. But, Minister, I have three questions to ask. When will you get the eighty-four firefighters, since with the extension you are taking, do you guarantee the budget credit? The list expires on December 12th. The extension is for a whole year. Will you get them in 2018 or in 2019? You made a commitment within the month, Minister, that you would do twenty-four hours a thousand seven hundred fifty remaining five-four. The cost, however, is estimated at about 8 to 8.5 million. Did the financial burden come out? The Ministry of Finance, Mr. Chakalotos, approved it? Will it come out in 2018, in 2019? When's he coming out? Why do we promise if the funds are not put out first, the appropriations? If we wait for the presidential decree, you'll see me and I'm slipped! What about the remaining people, Minister, the thousands of two hundred and fifty who were not qualified to enter the lists of people involved? What about these people? Are they going home? We shall, of course, also be voting in favour of the amendments, ladies and gentlemen, which concern ENPI and the business tax, in the view that they are moving in a very good direction. However, because, in fact, this is a prerogative, I have some comments to make, which may explain to us and why you legislate exactly the way you legislate. You are calling on us to give precedence to economic aspects of the future, in other words, things that no one can guarantee at all, no matter how good it is, whoever it is. The markets are not controlled by the states, but unfortunately in some cases, like the one we experienced and we continue to experience, the markets control the states. We are doing on tax issues what we should do in areas such as education, health, national defence, i.e. to legislate by looking at us over time, with our design over time, and the explanation is very simple. You have believed, ladies and gentlemen of the government, which has been said a long time ago, that two kinds of votes exist: the vote on revenge or complaint and the vote on anticipation or anticipation. There is no vote of gratitude or thanksgiving. You are counting on what Greek citizens will expect from you in a long time. You're counting on what you promise you to do. So the question is how people believe you, how citizens believe you. Soon we'll see, not more than nine months. SYRIZA's very big bet, perhaps the nightmare of the New Democracy, is the question: “How much do you think of the world?” We'll see. We shall vote'residents' on the draft and on the whole. In the amendments, just as I have been in the articles, the vote is taking place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u31	Thank you. I call on the Prime Minister and President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Mr Alexis Tsipras.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. I see, Mr. Chiara, that you are sitting in the seat of your Chief. I guess he's not coming today.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u33	You didn't warn us, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u34	I hope she hasn't chosen to go to any neighborhood in Athens again and give us fragile moments. But it makes sense not to come today, because it is another day that in the Greek Parliament, in observing my commitments to the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki, we are bringing positive measures to the vote, measures to alleviate the Greek people and, above all, to those many categories of citizens, the middle and lower strata, which have seen huge burdens in the Memorandum Years, especially in the early years. I will not, of course, have the luck of accepting a question in the next few days on safety and lawlessness issues, because we have also had considerable successes in the last days of the Greek Police. I am saying these introductory words because I am sure that we will not see these successes in the news releases at night. We see other issues on flea jumping, perhaps, that become huge issues and take too many minutes of publicity - Prime time - which they say. However, yesterday we had two major successes, due to the fact that there has been a new design from the Ministry's political leadership, with regard to the pedestrian patrols and the project "PERSCEAS". We had the captive arrest of offenders in a supermarket in Brissia the day before yesterday. So we had this success, but so was yesterday at a ELTA store in Bilia, Attica. And today, we have had an even more important success, the dismantling of a network, a criminal organisation. We already have fifty-nine cuffed and, of course, brain. And that's very important, because, you know, usually for criminals with "white collars" they don't work much neither the media nor your rhetoric. I am referring to a network of pawns throughout Greece, the well-known 'RICHARDOS' network, which had unravelled during the first years of the crisis, especially tens of thousands, would be said by our fellow citizens, who have seen their incomes collapsed overnight, who have been unemployed, who have been in poverty, despair. And in their desperation, many of them tried to find the possibility of either temporary aid - not income, but of aid - selling their price for 'price of opportunity'. So these are the successes of the last few days. So I will not have the honour, at least soon, to compare with your Chief, because he will not ask me, at least soon, a question about lawlessness and crime. Before I refer to the two main measures which we are now calling on Parliament to vote on and which concern my announcements at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition, I would like to refer to two more important speeches - amendments which we have to vote on today. One is, in my view, extremely important, as the conditions for the recovery of wounds are laid down in the Attica Eye. Yesterday I was in the area, talking to the people, with their co-ordination. I would therefore like to take two minutes of my time to inform Parliament. People there give a daily battle to heal their wounds, a difficult battle, but at the same time worthwhile. I would like to say that despite the great difficulties we face and even bureaucratic difficulties, we have achieved very much. I am not saying that we are perfect at all, but to a very large extent we have managed to stand by them, to deal with complex issues many times, because when you intervene and legislate, it cannot be easy to target the last exception. But we're there, we hear them, we fight together, we fight. We have, I believe, four months later, several things. Five thousand two hundred sixty-two initial autopsies have been carried out by the tracous eighty-five engineers and a thousand seventy-two re-checkers. I would particularly like to thank the staff of the Ministry of Infrastructure and all the engineers who have given a very important race these four months in the region. After these autopsies, we have five hundred sixty-five buildings, which have been demolished, namely'red' for use, we have a thousand five hundred forty-five buildings which have been temporarily declared unfit for use, the so-called 'yellow' and two thousand, sixty-sixty-three suitable for use. Up to now they have received the compensation we have decided here in the House, the EUR 5 000 for each household and the EUR 8 000 for each affected company, together with three hundred sixty-five households and eighty-five businesses. A total of EUR 16 543 000 have been disbursed. Of course, the EUR 1 200 allowance has also been paid to each affected household for its telecommunications needs. Also, the Ministry of Infrastructure has signed control and removal contracts for asbestos from the buildings with four specialised companies, which are already entrusted with the removal of asbestos from 193 buildings at the consent of the owners. In the first phase, the asbestos is removed from the demolished buildings and then collected in repairs. At the same time, the acceptance of donations for demolition by three technical companies has been advanced. I would also like to thank them publicly for their contribution. Fifty-five buildings have been demolished and will be demolished in the next 50 days, and the process of logging is progressing quickly with the mining companies, where there is also a significant sponsorship from a business group, which we thank him. With today's amendment, therefore, we are able to move forward in the next stage, in the issue of licences and in the restoration of damage, in the overall reconstruction of the'red' buildings, but in terms that will not repeat the mistakes of the past. So we have a suspension of permits and a ban on building in critical areas, for the uninterrupted design of the Special Spatial Plan, which we are working on and for specific sub-regions, that is, within the streams or in front of the coastal zone. We have put in place incentives for the immediate opening of roads that determine the design of a safe road network, by going back directly to buildings that have serious damage or destroyed, removal of buildings from or located in areas governed by forest law, and by providing, however, for the owners to be compensated, in particular by income criteria, having already established, for Mandra's case, the so-called 'extensive housing allowance for social reasons'. Of course we also have the establishment of all these necessary legal frameworks for speeding up procedures for completing the road network, for the common use of the sections of the coastal front, which will be indicated by the Special Spatial Plan as passages to the maritime front of the pedestrian traffic network. I would also like to thank the President of the Republic of Cyprus, Mr Anastasiades, who just yesterday sent me a letter informing me that my relevant suggestion is accepted so that the Republic of Cyprus can contribute to the building of a public hospital in the affected area, a public hospital in eastern Attica, which needs both the affected area and the wider areas. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And of course, the Ministry of Health will be in consultation with the Republic of Cyprus in order to make the planning framework, planning and timetables for the project clear. I now come to the question of the economy. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving, as you are aware, and people are beginning to understand, with rapid steps in the implementation of a project which has safely brought us to the position that we are currently in place, namely the exit from the memoranda and a secure financial margin, while at the same time catching the objectives of the programme, which some have doubted that we could ever get. Not only do we implement them, but we also have a secure budgetary margin in order to plan a policy of relief for the medium and low levels, both for the next year and for 2018. We have already restored, by voting here in this House, a great injustice concerning the rapid and sharp reduction of pay reductions in so-called special wages - in uniforms, universities, doctors - and the next period - from next week to mid-December - the corresponding amounts will have been disbursed. But today we are tabling an amendment that will be familiar with you, since it is actually a copy of last year's amendment on social dividends. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] It is the third consecutive year that we have the budgetary capacity to give the weakest, with income, assets and family criteria. So today we are tabling the provision, just as it has been last year, from overcompensation of the economy and overcompensation of the objectives. And this year, we have the possibility of giving it the equivalent of last year's figure. Initially, the amount of EUR 710 million and of course, depending on the adjustments, can also be increased, as was the case last year, provided for in the relevant provision. The exact level, depending on the income scale, will be determined by a joint ministerial decision, which we hope will have come out of it by Monday next Monday, so that, next Tuesday, the relevant electronic platform can be opened and all interested parties can make their applications, so that on 14 December - that is our objective - to be disbursed, paid to the beneficiaries of the social dividend. Our assessment is that it will also be a relatively expanded part of the weakest of Greek society this year and, in particular, we estimate that it will be about three hundred thousand with one million four hundred thousand households, about three and a half million beneficiaries. So today we are going on, beyond the vote on the social dividend provision and on the vote on provisions relating to the reduction of HPAI for 2018, but also the reduction of one unit of corporate taxation, just as I announced in the Thessaloniki International Exhibition, with the aim of gradually reaching five points by 2022, that is, 29%, which is now to reach 25% in 2022. It is a reduction in taxation rates for legal persons, which is also part of it - it is not arbitrary - in a more general plan to strengthen production activity in our country, a plan which contains the reduction of tax burdens on the one hand, while on the other is our overall plan for restoring working normality. We are therefore giving a clear signal to businesses to make use of this relief by moving on to new investments, moving on to new recruitment of workers with decent wages and with full employment and insurance rights. The second measure of relief, in which I will be allowed to stand a little further, which the House is asked to vote on today, is the one concerning the most famous ENPIA, a tax, which was a flagrant tax, one that was a component of the Memorandum. And I want, before entering into the substance of the regulation, to say this: for three and a half years we have been constantly listening to the accusation from the standpoint of counter-population that we are inconsistent because we have not abolished the ENPY. Does anyone remember who was the one who introduced this tax into the Greek economy and the Greek society? Does anyone remember that? You invented this tax, you are his main inspirings, and you dare talk and complain to us that we are the ones who have the evil and the ideological disobedience to the middle-class, when you have brought this tax, which has led hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens to the hands of vicious criminal organisations, such as the one which has been dismantled today, with the pawns, because you have led hundreds of thousands of citizens to tolerance and indulgence. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] So we, ladies and gentlemen, who dare to shake our fingers, have been able to reshape this tax today, which we are given financial capacity and budgetary margin, and we have a plan and we are going to reduce by 10%, 30% for public households this year, and we have also secured the corresponding financial space for reduction - targeted and this - by 20% of the time in the middle of 2020, so that public households can reach 50% of the reduction in HUNP in 2020. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] But that's not all. I have also talked about the changes we have made to the structure of this tax. I would also like to say that it adapts to the real values of real estate this year. On the basis of this adjustment, while almost EUR 2.6 billion - if I am not mistaken - of adjusting property prices to real values this year, if we did not proceed with this intervention, from EUR 2.6 billion to EUR 2.9 billion, i.e. we would have a burden on citizens of about 10%. We cover this 10% charge and give an additional 10% discount. So what we are voting on today is because we have the budgetary capacity to do so thanks to the successful course of public finances and to the development that has returned to the place and, of course, thanks to the sacrifices made by the Greek people, which we must never forget. We have the opportunity today to have a 10% medium-calculation instead of a 10% median increase. So, in total, we have a relief from what would be coming to the citizens, if we did not, 20% in mid-stage. With the proposed regulation, the citizens of low and medium-sized property will see the next year a substantial reduction in the burden. Of the five million eight hundred thousands of taxpayers with property, who are charged via HISBIA, will see a reduction of over five and a half million taxpayers, close to 90% of taxpayers. In particular, for property up to EUR 60,000, the reduction will be at 30%. Some of you will rush to mock that 60,000 euros are too low, that the amount is low, but that is about three and a half million of our fellow citizens, that is, most of the taxpayers. For properties of EUR 60,000 to EUR 100,000, the reduction will be up to 21% and it concerns one million of our fellow citizens. And of course, for properties of EUR 100,000 to EUR 150,000, the reduction will be close to 10%. This charge is about six hundred thousand of our fellow citizens. I would repeat some examples that I said at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition and the next day you said that the government is not going to implement what Tsipras said at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition. And today you are in front of your greatest nightmare, to come and implement them even one by one, and to vote 'yes' at all. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Owner, then, of sixty square meters worth 60,000 euros in Keracini will pay 157 euros this year instead of 224 euros, that is, 67 euros less. Owner of eighty-square meters in Neapolis, Thessaloniki, will pay 162 euros this year instead of 232, that is, 70 euros less. Owner of a hundred square meters worth EUR 90,000 in Peristeri will pay EUR 211 this year instead of EUR 290, or EUR 79 less. So, ladies and gentlemen, we are moving forward with a clear class orientation for many. This class monologue refers to many. You are accusing us of being one-sided, but this is about five million fellow citizens. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Your monologue refers to an elite of few, chosen and heirs. We are therefore moving towards reducing the burden on the people's housing and the people's regions. In the above, however, I urge you to add the 20% reductions, which we have also planned and safely, I would say, ensure in the financial area, which is provided for in the medium-term for 2020. So, in about a year and a half from now, when our fellow citizens will see the early cleansing of 2020, about three and a half million of our fellow citizens, who have a fortune of up to 60,000 euros, they will see half of the sum in the cleansing of HNPH, those who have a fortune of up to 100,000 euros, and so on. You will ask me, however, today some of you: 'Why do you not bring to the vote today and to reduce the extra 20% by 2020? The answer I am going to give you is very simple, is honest and clear, ladies and gentlemen. We, in the Greek people last September, at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition, said a few things and grapes, and we implement them one by one. In fact, we've had a little bit more of it. When one has Tsakalotus and Juliarakis next to him, that usually happens. Because the design is housewives. We've been over it a little bit longer than we've finally managed. We talked about 700 million and not about 910 million, which is provided for in the budget that we will vote at the end of the year for 2019. We did not say, in September at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition, inconsistent with HISFIA, which is in complete contrast with the country's own Constitution. I see that you are now moving to the debate on the constitutional revision so that what you have said to the IGC will become constitutional after two, three years, of course. They will not be, because your proposals will not go through at least. What you said about ENPIA in Thessaloniki, besides being unconstitutional, will completely dismantle self-government. What we've said is counted, it's fair and it's done, it's done now. The same applies to what we have said about 2020, 2021 and 2022, because we have, from now on, planned to do these in the next few years in the financial margins, which are now foreseen, due to the fact that we have managed to get the country and the economy out of the memoranda and the crisis. The country will continue safely, with a plan, with a lot of work coming out of the crisis, the economy will continue to recover and society will breathe. All this, however, ladies and gentlemen, on one condition that Greece will not come back. It will not go back to enlarged corruption, it will not go back to the fragmentation and dispersal of public money, it will not go back to the age of deficits, it will not go back to the opaque management of public finances. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And it will not, I would say, come back to the neoliberal ideas which the International Monetary Fund has imposed for eight years. But now Mr Mitsotakis is willing to propose them for them if he is elected Prime Minister. That's not gonna happen. But I am referring to the proposals made by the Chief of Officerial Reconciliation - which is missing today - for the so-called 'insurance Pinochets', which will fail our insurance system, which we have very often rebuilt and will fly to the streets hundreds of thousands of people insured. I am referring to the thoughts and plans for the dissolution of labour relations, as you consider the left's idealism to be the work legitimation that we are bringing back to the place. I am referring to the plans - secretly and clearly - for redundancies in the public and private sectors, but also, of course, to your overall strategic account, which is no more than a record and a plan of excessive tax reduction for the rich, the owners and the owners, the elite, but for the medium and low stratification of the maintenance of tax burdens or an increase in tax burdens. Why is HISBIA in the municipalities - and without central control - what does it mean? It means lower taxes in the wealthy municipalities that can go through with lower taxation, in Katali and in Kavouri, but higher HNVIA in the municipalities of the working class, in Perama, Nice and Peristeri. This is the policy of the New Democracy! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, what a greatest gift you could make to me, in my Government, than to present your programme, which is obvious - the secret - does not matter, the people understand it - a programme, these thoughts and ideas, for the 'insurance Pinochet', for the redundancies in the public sector, for the ENPI in the municipalities. Say them openly and present them. The Finance Minister spoke yesterday of a NBA player who gave many "asist". I don't know if you're giving assist. What I know is that you are the best donors of our effort, which will be successful, as you present your programme, to re-elect with the vote of the Greek people and to proceed with this great effort to rebuild society, with society standing up. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] That is, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, why I and the government's financial staff have decided not to vote today to reduce the additional 20% reduction in HPAI for 2020. In October 2019, before 2020, which is a post-election year, the Greek people will be invited to decide and must be evident to the Greek people among what versions they will have to decide. On the one hand this effort, which has been studied, targeted, housed, and the budget area which is not huge, but is the one that gives alleviates to the social categories that have been affected and, on the other, the New Democracy project, which only concerns elite. For every citizen to know, and in particular the low and medium-sized sections, workers, workers, the unemployed, the small and medium-sized ones, that what we have secured with trouble and, in particular, the financial area that we have secured and everything that is going on so far and we legislate and vote was not a legal area for it to happen. Nor will the 20% reduction of the ENPI - for the popular layers reach 50% - be a prefecture in 2020. This financial space will happen and will be exploited for the poor and the medium-sized ones, and it will not become smoke and luxury for the elite, only if the people themselves are prevented by the vote and by the order of his rectification of the regime that has thrown us on the rocks of bankruptcy if the people themselves prevent the restoration of the memorial nightmare that our country has experienced. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I'm sure this will happen, but don't rush. And next year, this time - life to have - here we will be. We will legislate with fresh people's mandate and with the further reduction of HISPIA for people's households, but also with further relief measures for many. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by telling you this: on August 21st, we announced, without much drumcrashing, but because, in our assessment, it was a historic event, the country's exit after eight years from the memoranda that shrunk the economy, dismantled the Greek society and not just, one would say, as the political system was reshaped. When I presented the exit from Ithaca, the Chief of Anti-Population from his office, not from Kipseli or from another neighborhood, will go these days every time we talk about the economy here - he questioned that we have an exit from the memorandum and spoke again about the fourth memorandum. I'm not gonna make the same fun I did in my previous speeches, because what I'm going to say is important. As long as I remember myself, every government used to make an account in the first hundred days. We in the first hundred days of our lives are closed tomorrow when we close a hundred days from the country's exit from the memoirs. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] So, if you'd like, let's do a little account of what happened these hundred days that you questioned would change anything in the life and daily lives of the citizens. In these first hundred days, then, we have legislated on restoring injustice by rendering retrospectives to officials and civil servants, we have made progress in reducing the insurance contributions for freelance professionals and young scientists, and we are legislating for more than five million fellow citizens who have low or medium-sized assets, we are going to reduce corporate tax rates, we are tabling and we are soon distributing social dividends for 1.4 million households and we are continuing with the abolition of the measure to reduce pensions. We continue with measures to support poor households, middle stratification. We continue until the great majority of the Greek people are able to feel their way out of this nightmare eight-year period in their lives and everyday life. [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] The first 100 days to be completed tomorrow, the first 100 days of Greece outside the memorials, our first 100 days to know that it will only be the beginning. The restoration of injustices and social and economic reconstruction will continue with even faster and decisive steps and with the will of the people and after October 2019, having signed with him our Memorandum, the Memorandum to support society, support the low strata for the definitive exit of the country and the economy from the crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, forty students and students and three educational sessions from the 4th High School of Livadia (second section). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I would ask the Vice President, Mr. Kremastino, to come over to take over the Chair. Now only the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Kefaloyannis, will speak, and then we will proceed to the procedure for the waiver of immunities. Immediately afterwards, we'll continue with the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u36	Mr President, please, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u37	Mr. Theoharopoulos, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u38	Mr President, it was a whole thing last time!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u39	It's time, we interrupted directly for...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u40	Mr President, this is not a game for two of us. Last time, it had become a whole thing. Do you remember that? Don't be the same conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u41	Please, Mr. Theocharopoulos! Excuse me, but Members have been called, and they must all be for the waiver of immunity, because for speeches, whether of parliamentarians or of others, they are in or out of parliamentarians and they also meet committees. The timetable must be respected. Mr. Kefaliannis had asked for the floor in advance and it is time. I think it is reasonable and politically right to lead and speak now. I have no special friendship or privileges with Mr. Kefaliannis. To God! Excuse me, Mr. Kefaliannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u42	I, too, hereby certify that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u43	Here, Mr. Kefaliannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. I will start with a comment, because I heard the Prime Minister a little while ago using basketball terms. You know, in basketball beyond "asist" there are also the holes and this government has eaten so many holes that, literally, it has lost the ball. We heard a Prime Minister earlier talking about a programme that is constantly changing it. He spoke, for example, of what he announced in Thessaloniki and in fact changes the same thing he said two years ago and again changes what he had changed three years ago. However, since the Prime Minister is missing and has not had the pleasure of hearing the answer to what he said, I would like to highlight a few points. There is a parliamentary practice, ladies and gentlemen, when the Prime Minister speaks, at least the Civilian Opposition is reasonably informed over a period of time, so that the President of the Civilian Operations is actually present, something which has not been done. That, Mr President, is the only reason why Mr Mitsotakis is absent from the Chamber today. So there are no fireworks here on the part of the government, or verbalism or jokes, or things can be said and impressed. I listened very carefully to the Prime Minister talking about security and I was really happy to hear it. He, of course, baptised as self-evident successes by the police, namely the dismantling of criminal organisations and the prevention of robbery, which is self-evident for us. We have confidence in the Greek police. After all, they were on the side of SYRIZA, when they were in opposition, that sort of incidents not only condemned but often closed eyes. On the other hand, I have heard a Prime Minister speak so much about security, but at the same time also bring liberal measures, which I really wonder if he thinks about his accession to the centre-right! After being moved from the European Left to the police occupation, I really am thinking about whether, at the same time, talking about security and liberal measures, such as what he has presented to us, he is thinking of joining even centre-right. It is no accident, of course, that in recent years Mr Tsipras has been present in Europe as a kind of broker between the disobedient governments - see Italy - and the European institutions. In other words, he who intervenes in the disobedient governments is present and says: 'Look at see, you must follow the European norms, or you will be destroyed', obviously following his own example. Of course, he should have been here to hear something else his associates might not take it from him. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about a ten-page bill and the government has brought seven amendments. If anyone adds up the number of pages, they'll see it's a hundred seven. In other words, the amendments are eleven times greater than the draft legislation under discussion. In other words, a permanently poor legislation has been made on SYRIZA, and, unfortunately, no-one in this Parliament's misdemeanorism, by my fellow Members - and, of course, Mr President, the Bureau, too, has not opposed it. Unfortunately, we see, respectively, that it is adopted and no one has an opposite view on this. But let's actually go. I have listened very carefully to the Minister for Finance, for the first time by a left Minister for Finance, to speak with very positive words about the reduction of taxation, that is to say, a liberal policy, or that is what SYRIZA likes to say 'neo-liberal', and that is something that I am delighted with. However, I would like to make a more general comment on Amendments Nos 18.11 and 18.12, respectively, concerning the reduction of profits tax by business and the mid-term reduction in HPAI, as the Minister admitted, not by 30% but by 10%. And, of course, since the Prime Minister also likes it because he spoke about copying, I will tell you that obviously these two amendments are a fragmentary copy of the New Democracy programme, which, of course, happened last week with the draft law on the reduction of insurance contributions, for which the government was celebrating. And as with cynicity last week, Mr. Tsipras tried to partially correct a measure imposed by himself and his Government, as cynically confessed to the huge success of the Katorugalos Act and admitted ideological obsessions that were harmed by the whole of them, both the free professional and the businessman, so with absolute cynicity, ladies and gentlemen, he actually justified the New Democracy's positions on the negative effects of the Catrugalo Act. So today the government has come, supposedly, to create a philosophical profile, while maintaining twenty - nine new taxes, to tell us that it corrects some of the injustices it imposed. And, of course, Mr Tsipras should explain to the Greeks that the philosophical measures, which he is supposed to bring to Parliament today, are entering a first - according to his own assessment - a memorandum budget, but which includes two billion extra taxes. And I say this, ladies and gentlemen, to know where these tax reliefs come from. Neither come from the growth of the Greek economy nor from the growth of jobs nor from the growth and attraction of new investments. They come from the towel of the Public Investment Programme, whose expenditure is less than EUR 1.3 billion. They come from tax refunds, which are less than EUR 770 million and, of course, from primary expenditure, which is less than EUR 720 million, commonly from the private payment stop. Indeed, if we were here in some other, unrelenting times, Mr Tsipras himself would say that the bloody surplus, which allows him today to give back one of the ten that he has taken from the citizens, is what allows him to do a social policy. But of course, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the government, even EUROSTAT, is going to disprove you in this area. In 2017, the government's absolute insufficiency, even in this supposed sector, was shown to be privileged for you. Watch out, please. Social transfers on average to the Member States of the European Union led to a 1/3 reduction, namely 32.4% of people living on the poverty line, while in Greece this rate was only half, 15.8%, with the result that our country, Greece, is currently in - according to EUROSTAT - in the last place. It is therefore clear that overcrowding money is paid back to the citizens as social benefits, but that they do not serve at all the purpose for which they were supposed to have been established. Also, I'm going to file some data from the International Labour Office. In 2017, wages fell by 3.5%, where this was the largest reduction throughout Europe. In fact, they reached the wage level back in 2017 in 2014, so five lost years for labour relations, for which you are so much cut. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Kefaloyannis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Moreover, according to the OECD report, only in 2019 will the level of households, as far as their income is concerned, reach the levels of 2014. Do you know what it means, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple? Five lost years because of the rule of the "first time left". According to the Ministry of Finance, in 2018 the GDP debt will be 183,1 % instead of 144,6 % that would be in line with the 2014 forecast by the European Commission itself. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Kefaloyannis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Do you know what that means, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple? It means 70 billion lost GDP because of the rule of SYRIZA and ANEL, 38.5% lost GDP due to the rule of SYRIZA and Independent Greeks. All this because of your own governance. So coming here and swinging our fingers that the Greek economy was supposed to return to growth, and four years now you've practically established it, it's at least hypocritical. In any case, we as a New Democracy have proved our responsible attitude. We have said that we are voting positively. We shall therefore vote on these amendments. But if you want to see the big picture, unfortunately you were a disaster for the Greek economy and it proves the same numbers, which I mentioned earlier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to stop legislative work for a while, so that we can move on to immunity for Members of Parliament and then come back.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION Requests for waiver of immunity: debate and decision, in accordance with Rule 62 of the Constitution and Rule 83 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, on applications for waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament, etc. Eleni Zaroulia and Eleftherios Aygeakis. The relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics announced the report of 23 November 2018 that the members of the Committee proposed by a majority that Mrs Helen Zaroulia's immunity should not be lifted. The relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics announced the report of 23 November 2018 that the members of the Committee proposed by a majority that the immunity of Mr Eleftherios Augenakis should not be waived. In accordance with Rule 83(7) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, the Parliament shall also decide, by raising the hands or making the request of the public prosecutor in accordance with the procedure referred to in the second subparagraph of Article 108(1). The floor shall always be given, on request, to the Member to whom the request relates and to the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups or their alternates. I would like to remind you that, in accordance with the decision of the Conference of Presidents at the meeting on 7 March 2018, the new electronic roll-call system has been activated. So since the debate on the cases of today's special agenda is closed, we will proceed to a roll-call electronic vote, as I said before. The first case, therefore, concerns Mrs Helen Zaroulia. The second case concerns Mr Eleftherios Ayggenakis. Is there any colleague requesting the floor under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure? There's no colleague. Is the second request a colleague requesting the floor under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure? There is also no colleague. We would like to point out that the vote includes two different cases of the waiver of immunity from Members. Every time on the screen a case appears to be voted on. To show the next or the previous one, press the arrow on the right or left side of the screen respectively. Please make sure that you've voted for all cases of waiver of immunity. After registering your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. For any question, please, please, to the Bureau, so that the officials concerned can assist you. I would ask you to open the electronic voting system and the Members to vote on applications for waiver of immunity.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that letters and faxes (fax) by colleagues have been sent to the Bureau, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure of the House, to which they give their votes. These votes will be taken into account in the count, which will be followed and recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u48	Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of an electronic roll-call vote on applications for waiver of immunity from Members. A total of 169 Members voted on the first case by Mrs Helen Zaroulia. In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 44 Members voted. On the question of immunity, 70 Members voted against the motion for a resolution, i.e. 'NOVO'. 'PARON' were voted 55 MPs. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore rejected. A total of 164 Members voted on the second case by Mr Eleftherios Auganos. In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 19 Members voted. On the other hand, I would like to point out that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to biological agents at work "PARON" 4 MPs voted. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore rejected. The result of the roll-call vote is recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, twenty-eight students and students and three teachers from the 3rd High School of Thessaloniki. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] You see that a vote was taken on the waiver of immunity from Members, which was completed, the result was announced and we are on the agenda here. The speaker of SYRIZA, Mr. Beyalas, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u51	Thank you very much, Mr President. Sure, I think...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u52	Here we go. We hear you. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u53	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. I know that you always take care of my positions and that you are taking very seriously and my scientific content - financial - into account. And it will be good to explore them and some of them if you adopt them, it will not be bad, because it will help you to understand the new things, in a mixed economy, which has characteristics that bears weight in social protection and not just in a pure and highly liberal system, which is unaltered towards the citizens. After the Prime Minister's position, which clearly gave all the answers, I took the floor, to highlight two - three things, and I believe that even seven minutes will not be needed, although many times this is difficult. For this draft law, I would like to say that I think it is in a positive direction and we agree on it. There are no particular arguments. The main thing, of course, is that the amendments, which have clear references, with social substance and which give what they started with previous bills, with previous regulations, that is, they give the people the idea that from now on they may hope every day to improve their everyday life, to reduce their burdens, these burdens and this difficulty brought by the memoirs, the bankruptcy of the country, which took place in 2010 and the memos that came after that. Today, of course, it is the amendment to the Eye, which, as has been said, is one day after the Prime Minister's visit to this area, which was made without cameras, without fanatics, but within a framework of contacts that the Prime Minister has every month, every little and little to go to these people who were affected by this fire, to find solutions to problems. I saw this today on some electronic newspaper site in our country. While it was when it went back to previous times, journalists knew and followed by the Prime Minister, they said it was for show, for cameras, and not for substance. Yesterday he went without the cameras, what did they say? They wrote: “He went in secret, so the questions would not be asked.” Ultimately, tell your friends there, journalists and propagandas, either in the bag or in the bag, because as you do, you don't even fit in the bag and you do in the bag. The second important amendment, which is, I think, a restoration of some injustices, refers to the lists of people in the firehouse - both for the five-year and for those who were involved in 2011. I think that with the extension given to the validity of these people's tables we are thus restoring injustice. It is a small number of people, especially those who were the leaders of 2011, and rightly so, Minister, you have taken the initiative to eliminate this injustice, since in the next few years, the recruitment of firefighters is carried out through the computer system. It is also a reduction in the tax rates for legal persons, as the Prime Minister said, within a specific plan, in the next four years, every year by 1%. Let some people not be so cut off, the opposition, who wants to tell us that it is the ones who have reduced taxation on businesses. We are not forgetting Law 4172/2013, where from the first euro all duty-free was abolished and 26% was set for everyone without exception. For small and medium-sized enterprises - and of course it is how each one of them defines the small and medium-sized enterprises - up to EUR 20,000, in any case, in individual companies tax from 26%, with the law we voted on last year, went to 22% for those who have 20,000 net taxable. So anyway, there was. For legal persons and entities, which went from 26% to 29%, it is falling, since the budgetary things of our country allow us to do so every year by 1%. As far as ENPIA is concerned, we must make it clear that this is where the diversity of our decisions and the paths we choose. We have been told by the Civic Opposition and its Chief that it proposes 30% reduction of HNVIA over a period of four years - five years, but horizontally. It is a completely different matter, however, ladies and gentlemen, with the EUR 100, with the reduction we are voting on today in Parliament, which saves a small owner, a man who has very little fortune, who, of the EUR 300, will save 100 and is a completely different sum for one who owes a million to save. That is the point, which we say, yes, there is indeed a bias from our Government, class-shaped, but in favour of the weak. Why making 30% reductions to someone, who has a huge fortune and pays 1 million euros and giving him 300,000 euros, is not the same thing as the hundredth that will reduce the burden of a poor Greek citizen. Of course, and the proposal to transfer the ENPI to municipalities, I think that for people who have been involved in local government for several years - as I have done - it ended up as a joke. And, of course, it's not the self-government either. So clearly we are going to a relief for people with the social dividend, which comes for the third time. We have heard that it is being re-elected, just before the celebrations. All right, so you told us in 2016, and so in 2017, you tell us and in 2018, so will you tell us next year, in 2019. Irrespective of whether after the election, the government will again be SYRIZA, regardless of whether the next elections will be in 2023, you will again use that excuse. However, what I would like to point out about social dividends and the Minister responsible takes into account is that people with a disability rate of more than 67% are increasing the income criterion, but there should also be a corresponding increase in the property criterion. I conclude, Mr President, by the following: by the end of the year we will also have the provision for the distribution of the remaining amount of social benefits. The heating oil should be seen very seriously in the first zone. I think it is necessary, since there is a budget space, that the 25 minutes should be 40 minutes. For with about EUR 1.15 per litre, which is currently sold for heating oil in the cities of northern Greece, in the cities of Macedonia, but also in the mountain regions, it cannot cover this increase because of the commercial price. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, too. Mr Theocharopoulos, Parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u55	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all - the debate on the bill has gone for a walk. The bill you have brought today, Mrs Gerovali, under the responsibility of the government - as you understand - and the President of this House has also not dealt with it. This process has been taking place since this morning, it is unacceptable. The central committee of SYRIZA is not the central committee of any party, Mr Voutsi. It is not possible for ministers to come and present amendments before the draft law is debated. It is not then possible to debate and to speak - after three, four Ministers, the Prime Minister and the Minister responsible for finance - only to the representative of the New Democracy and to stop the process. The House is not a game for a sterile new partition. This procedure is unacceptable and the President of Parliament, Mr Butsi, has personal responsibilities. We talked about it here last time, as a Democratic Alliance, when the leaders of the other parties were not given the floor, beyond the New Democracy. Unfortunately, this situation is still widening. Finally, this problem must be debated seriously and solved. The Communist Party of Greece also played a protest this time on this subject, as did the Democratic Partnership and many other parties. It is not possible to degrade the functioning of the House in this way. And I now come to this matter after the positions of the relevant Minister for Finance and the Prime Minister. You continue to reason with which you are, in essence, trying to say that you are giving the citizens, while taking ten of them and giving one back. Look what you're doing. You have as the sole objective of fiscal policy the existence of excessive primary surpluses and you are struggling, not only now, to achieve the objectives but to achieve the over-efficiency of the objectives. These are very large percentages, which in no economy can be achieved except by 'drug' the real economy, with a tax policy that drains everyone. And after you do that, give back one of ten. We still tell you that the one you give, we vote on it. That's what we did last year, that's what we did last year, that's what we're doing this year. We do not follow a sterile opposition. But I say: if that is what you consider to be an effective economic policy, you are deeply at night! I will now come to specific questions in relation to the amendments you have tabled. First of all, you seem to have read the motion for a law of the Democratic Incorporation tabled to the House last week. He hasn't come to talk. It's an integrated law proposal. It seems, however, that you have read it, because some of the issues you are bringing it into. But you didn't read it well. We are talking, for example, about a gradual reduction in the corporate tax rate from 29% to 20% to be effective in some years, with 3% reduction in the first year. Of course, as far as ENPI is concerned, the reduction we are proposing - 30% - and the way we propose it can be done, it can be effective and people understand it. Because in the way you do, virtually few citizens in very few areas will understand it. You say, however, that you are pursuing a policy which is in favour of weak social strata. Let's see, is that right? How will you get the ten to give back one? First of all, I shall refer to the specific amendments, both to HISPIA and to the issue of corporate taxation. It is true that both amendments in the special report are mentioned: the first is that the losses resulting from the budget will be replaced by other sources of budgetary revenue - I will tell you briefly what the other sources of revenue are - and, secondly, that everything that is planned is done on condition that it is not deviated from the budgetary objectives, that is to say from the objective of primary surpluses of 3.5%, which we will see how you achieve this, so that you can give this one of the ten you are taking back. In your amendment you say that the distribution of the social dividend will take place on the basis of strict and well-targeted income criteria. This, I imagine, is a self-critic about how you gave it two years ago, your government. You remember that they had taken it back a number of charges that you shouldn't have. I've heard the Prime Minister say that on Monday they'll specialize. We are not given information on the criteria for income, property, accommodation, categories of beneficiaries, how to calculate, the exact amount per category... and so on. So the Prime Minister said that all this would be done by ministerial decision on Monday. Prime Minister and Minister, since we are voting here on most of the democratic arch forces, and we are positive, are you not telling us and what do you intend to testify at Monday? Why do you keep the charges of the beneficiaries secret? Is that an incident? It is a very serious question of how these 710 million are to be allocated. I heard the Prime Minister say that on Monday the government is ready to testify. Why didn't he tell us here how he intends to testify? As far as the budget is concerned, let us see how classic the budget is, how you get ten. Indirect and direct taxes: Mr Chakatou, you have taken out the budgetary report for the first time the ratio of indirect - direct taxes. You can't make fun of citizens like that. The ratio for 2019 is the worst of all recent years. 60% are now indirect taxes, i.e. for every 1 euros that people will pay out of their pocket for a direct income tax, EUR 1.5 will take it from them by means of indirect taxes. It is the highest proportion in favour of indirect taxes. The left has always said that the proportion of indirect taxes to direct taxes should be reduced. This is exactly the opposite. Secondly, the current government debt increased from EUR 73 billion in 2014 to EUR 102 billion in August 2018. Why did it grow? Because when you get EUR 1 in one pocket for direct taxes and 1.5 on the other hand from indirect taxes, citizens cannot handle it. I am continuing: Late debt to the insurance funds has tripled since 2014 in terms of the social budget, pension expenditure is budgeted by EUR 275 million less, while unemployment benefits are also expected to be reduced. The financing of hospitals is less than EUR 79 million. Development budget? Oh, no! The Public Investment Programme is also less than EUR 550 million from the medium-term forecast and investment and taxes. What else can I tell you? Of all this, you get to come here today and say that you give back one in ten. This is not an effective economic policy. This is a dead-end economic policy with a billion more taxes, a 800 million lid on social benefits and 500 million on the reduction of public investment. Today the report of the ILO's International Labour Office is being made public. If I am not mistaken, the Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras, has mentioned many times in recent years how he expects the ILO reports, that what he says is the ally of our country in terms of labour relations. I mean, contrary to the International Monetary Fund, it has a policy that is closer to the workers. So what does ILO say today? The highest wage reduction across Europe since 2016 in 2017 is focused on Greece. The reduction amounts to 3.5%, compared to 2016, in salaries, which is the largest from 2013 for our country and the largest for 2016-2017 in the European Union. What for? Because they dominate, as ILO says, the elastic forms of work. Other evidence? You are reducing the subsidy for insurance contributions, for young workers from the preliminary draft budget, to what was submitted from EUR 103 million to EUR 51 million. This is a class policy, indeed, which is toward workers. As much as we want to baptize her otherwise, the substance of the matter does not change. And because you have also referred to investment, I have heard you say about the fixed tax system, look, it needs a stable tax system. It is not possible to reduce a percentage point and to think that investment will come to our country. Public investment is falling, foreign investment is not coming because, among other things, there is no stable tax system. The main problem with this policy, however, is that you are pursuing a policy of tactics on critical issues, with a pre-election target clearly and with a show. I hear the Prime Minister say that he will come to Parliament every week to present his successes one. Do you think this can be a debate? This is how we can discuss which categories should be reduced? Where should the money go right now, if there's a savings? Can there be a debate in the committees? Can we hear the agencies? Can we hear society? Can a debate be held this way, which the Prime Minister will suddenly come, will announce something, just to make a show, or will it convince some citizens that the policy of deep dogmatic austerity has changed? Unfortunately, for you citizens now understand. This is where he needs a brave change of policy. Which way? Firstly, at work, where we can achieve genuinely sustainable jobs. We cannot speak today with a terminology that we are simply interested in finding some EUR 200 and EUR 300 jobs and then, of course, show that we are reducing unemployment rates. I don't think that's the target for our country. I heard, of course, the Prime Minister mentioning both the first hundred days and at the moment I was confused when I heard him. I thought he meant the first hundred days since 2015, which put us in a third memorial unbearable and painful indeed. Then I realized that he was talking about the first hundred days today, when for three years he tried to get the country out of the memorandum he put it himself in August 2015. He referred to these first hundred days, with these indirect taxes, with these financial results, to give the signal of a better economic situation, because, he said, he gives some money back, than he gets during the same year. This is not a serious policy unless we speak frankly to the Greek people. The government must say why it has committed itself for the years to come with so many measures for the Greek economy. We say that the next government must have an initial goal in negotiating, reducing the primary surpluses from 3.5% to 2% of the targets for the coming years. What else we are discussing today will not be able to achieve if we have such a tax policy to find money to serve only such a high primary surplus. The first objective, then, is that and then, together with a reconstruction plan for the country and the economy, that investment can come, that there should be a tax reform, a stable tax system, with social justice, so that we can really overcome and overcome the crisis. Because today, with your policy, we are not going to go beyond the crisis, ladies and gentlemen. We are going deeper into it and, simply while this dogmatic austerity policy is being followed, we are then running to share some allowances or some reductions from all that we get during the year. A progressive policy can only focus on the fields of education and health, give money to rebuild these social areas of policy, and create a framework for entrepreneurship and the private economy that can next day get us out of the crisis. Madam Minister, I had too much to say about your bill. I was prepared to raise several issues about how the protection of rights should be combined with safety and so on. There has also been discussion in committees. I think that as the debate has evolved, unfortunately from your government, we cannot discuss bills. There is a fragmentary debate on the amendments, rather than an integrated debate on these economic policy issues too. But it is only your government and the President of Parliament, Mr Butsi, who is responsible for this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u56	Mr Charakopoulos, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, last week the Prime Minister told us that Athens is not Gotham City, the city of Batman. Today he presented a series of thefts to banks, post offices, supermarkets and the successes, of course, of the Greek Police men. We never doubted the adequacy and professionalism of the police. What we have been asking and asking for is for you to remove the institutional and objective obstacles to its work. So don't hide behind the successes of ELAS. Ladies and gentlemen, with the amendments that overshadow the bill under discussion, the government has come to the satisfaction of continuing its election campaign. He was assigned to the Chamber and the Prime Minister. After four catastrophic years, the dissolution of the middle class, the deep stagnation of the economy, the persecution of young people, the desperation you caused in healthy productive powers, you are now supposed to share gifts, can you convince any of SYRIZA's elegant voter to change his mind. You expect them to forget that you won their vote not far-off 2015, demanding them that you abolish and not that you will correct the EVO, because you had the magic wand to smash memorials, to expel the lenders and to restore the years of prosperity. The only thing you have done, of course, was to experiment for a period of six months with Giannis Varoufakis, who now wants to become a Member of the European Parliament outside Greece, without being conscious of the evil he caused in the country with your tolerance and sympathy. Of course you did the grand vase, which became an international term as a douchebag, which, if we believe the Italian press publications, Mr Tsipras also recommended to the people of Italy, a piece of shit, which was paid by the Greek people by means of new tough measures, which were unnecessarily hard until you took the power, as well as by heavy taxation that blew the middle-class, business and productive forces of the country. You now come in a hypocritical way, after you make some discounts for the eyes of the world in HNBIA that you would abolish - the Prime Minister forgot that -, to reduce 1% the business tax for 2019 and wickedly thinking, you put the reduction away until 2022. You put 1% a year to reach 25%. Ask me May to eat a clover, as if you'd be a government in 2022. Do you really think that even a businessman, a man with nails and teeth survived the crisis, will be convinced of this measure? Of course not and you know that, as you know, this de-escalation of the saliva is not going to create investment or create the right environment that will bring growth. But it's none of your business. Your concern is to close the eye to your potential voters, to order appointments to the public, knowing that the fragile economy can't take it. Just legislate to create impressions, blur the waters, so that the desperate moves you make do not completely appear to save your percentages. But you can't do it because society has known you, and recently he saw you with the fiasco of the deal with the Church, when you rushed to get the clergy out of public payroll, to promise ten thousand new assignments. All of this proves that not only are you not the solution to exit the crisis, but you represent all that has led us to the crisis. That is why you will soon be a past for the country. Ladies and gentlemen, let me now say a few words about the incorporation of the European directive that we are discussing in our national law. It is particularly important and not unimportant. This is because it is moving on the really sensitive limit between the right to security and human rights, the protection of personal data. There is no doubt that the European area is affected, as is the whole planet, by phenomena such as the spread of terrorism - particularly Islamic networks - and also by criminal groups operating in the climate of globalisation, which benefit from the progress of communications and transport. Recently we also had in our country the revival of the ghost of terrorism with the attempted terrorist strike in the home of Vice-President Isidor Doyaku. It seems that those who claim that the unbattles and the asylums are being unfolded into incubators of terrorism. The reappearance of this phenomenon requires that the directive be vigilant and taken and, even late, the directive is incorporated. Unfortunately, the many terrorist attacks which have occurred in many European countries with a hundred victims and the trafficking of extremists or criminals require measures to be taken throughout the Member States. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] For Greece, in fact, at the forefront of receiving such data, vigilance and similar measures are more than required, and most importantly, poor choices and incomplete management in this area in the previous period have undermined the country's prestige abroad. On the other hand, legislation that strengthens the common internal security must not weaken the freedom of citizens and the guaranteed rights of Europeans. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. This directive seems to me to be a great success for the golden section, since the air travellers' personal rights provided for will only be useful in identifying safety-related activities. In conclusion, I am pleased that most of the remarks tabled by our rapporteur, the experienced parliamentarian, Mr Davas, have taken the form of legislative improvements have been accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u58	Thank you to Mr Maximos Charakopoulos, Member of the New Democracy. This is followed by MP Yiannis Koutsoukos from the Democratic Alliance. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. Today we have lived another episode of the serial 'Here is the good memorandum', as I said in my position on the amendment of the retrospectives, because the government, by circumventing both Parliament's Rules of Procedure and the parliamentary procedure, has chosen, in the form of an amendment, to bring these tax arrangements, because it cannot stand up to parliamentary debate. Because while he has announced tax relief, he should bring in a tax bill, call on the operators here, to tell us their opinion. I would remind you that when you became a government, Minister, in 2015, in the first bill to deal with the humanitarian crisis, as you said, you have been employed a week by parliament with fifty bodies here calling you 'bravo'. So why didn't you bring GSEVE, the SEE, the Owners' Association, all those who are interested in the issues you celebrate today? Obviously why you fear their criticism, because other things you were telling them and others did. In addition to the policy of manipulation, however, what matters is how the Bureau of Parliament consents to a systemic violation of the Rules of Procedure, in order to give this performance, which, in other words, also sets out the Change Movement. When our parliamentary representative asked you to speak after New Democracy, you interrupted to vote on waivers of immunity. Keep in mind that these do not save you and after the performance is over, the Ministers and Members of SYRIZA have left. You know, he's got a strike today. I imagine they've gone to the protest to pick up that banner! Or did you forget, Minister? In any case, let's get to the bottom of it. Ladies and gentlemen, we have said - and we repeat this all tons - that this government takes ten and gives one. I would say that it is lenient to think that in the years that are running, it has had a surplus of EUR 58 billion compared with EUR 37 billion in GDP and that it has imposed, as a sum of the third and fourth memorandum, measures of EUR 20 billion. And don't tell me that there is no fourth Memorandum, because Law 4472, which you voted on with your hands, had EUR 1.8 billion pension cuts, EUR 1.8 billion for taxfree and EUR 1.3 billion for social expenditure. So we hear that you're bringing some lazy ones here in relation to your old announcements and suggestions. We want to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that in this 2018 budget, which will make EUR 7.3 billion surplus, increased, that is, far more than prediction, all these burdensome measures have been incorporated. In addition to your intervention today, you do not face any of the problems that you have created with the twenty - nine taxes that you have imposed in the five years that you have been ruling. If you really want to deal with the overtaxation that you have accumulated in the Greek economy to boost growth, most of all, here is the proposal for a law that we have tabled as a Movement of Change. It has forty articles, which are intended on the one hand to alleviate tax burdens to the limits of the medium term and, on the other, to social justice. We are referring to Article 1, a reduction in corporate taxation from 29% to 20% in four years. In Article 2, transferring the focus to the low rate, as was the abolition of the tax on wine, beer and residence tax. In Article 3, exemption from new professionals for five years. In Article 4, we are talking about the contribution of solidarity. What are you really going to do about the solidarity levy? Is that how you're gonna let her go? Article 5 applies to trade tax. You denounced him. You're gonna leave him, too? In Article 6, we are talking about a 30% reduction in the EMS in three years, without the 60,000 cap. I'm addressing you so-called left-wing. The additional tax was at 300 000 and you took it down to 200 000 to pay the poorest. And, of course, you must apologise to these good little people of the northern suburbs who have voted for you because they have believed that you will abolish the ENPI and bring a well-balanced arrangement that the maximum of benefit is at 100 euros. Madam Minister, you are from a rural area. The additional tax on the parcels will be abolished? You're postponing him from time to time. Do farmers know that you have put the parcels in the additional tax and when the tiles come to their head, you will not know where to hide? Are you going to introduce the irresponsible account? Not to say tomorrow, when you confiscate the benefits you grant, that there was a failure between DU and the Ministry of Finance. In any case, there are other issues that do not cost anything. The second opportunity, the hundred and twenty instalments, the protection of the first home, the collective negotiations on which the entire trade union movement and so on were today working. These are the issues and if you want, bring them with a law proposal to the House and vote for our proposals, so that you can be okay with yourself. And to make a reference to what Mr. Tsipras said this morning when he referred to a success of the police at a well-known pawnshop and accused us of sending people to the pawnshop, seeing who sent people to the pawnshop. Time is 103 billion, that is 29 billion more than you govern. To social security institutions, the due date is 33.9 billion, i.e. 22.4 billion more than you govern. One million and forty-three thousand of our fellow men are under the tampering break of the measures to remove funds from the accounts and forced measures, five hundred thousand more than when you are ruling. Four and a half million VAT is red compared with the DUs and the insurance funds. They're the ones you sent to the pawn shops and then you blame the others. You are therefore the sponsor of the New Democracy, Madam Minister and colleagues of SYRIZA, no matter how much you want to admit it. I will finish my position on another matter, and I would ask you, Mr President, to understand it. The representative of the six hybrid and sykophant, Mr. Kammenos, spent six minutes more than his time presenting here, from this Step, a thousand played best seller or the "Christopher's Calendar". I'll tell you that the attempt to slash the former Prime Minister is not going to work. He made a statement today, saying 'they don't touch me'. But since I am an old Member, I would like to tell you that in 2010 Mr Vassilakos had come to the committee of inquiry at the request of Mr Kammenos. When he asked, then, a Member of Parliament - rather than a majority that we were at the time - whether he has read the file, his answer was 'no I had no opportunity to study the dossier, but my briefing was that there were many problems'. It is what Mr Vassilakos said, which you discovered the day before yesterday, on 5 November, as a witness, 'I heard something, I suppose'. The same time that he had them fresh, he didn't know or heard. That's for there to be an answer to what was said by this Step and a political argument that this Scandalology is not going to save you. The people are asking us to make politics and solve the problems, they are not asking us to produce mud and go back. Thank you, Mr President, for the slightest tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr. Koutsuko. Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn Mr Panagiotis Ilioopoulos has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u61	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is good what the Prime Minister said, these amendments are good. Anything you give is good, but why do you do it now a few months before the elections? Where have you been all these years? Five years, SYRIZA has ruled. Where was it when the Greek people are in this terrible situation? Of course, SYRIZA has fully continued the policies of the previous governments. It has not changed in agreements with lenders - I don't know what you tell them, we tell them loan sharks, people tell them - nothing. The situation has barely deteriorated. Obviously, you of SYRIZA, because you do not have much opportunity to go out, because from what we see, where you go, do not welcome you in the best way, so you do not have the opportunity to listen to the Greek society. You do not have the opportunity to hear the problems of the Greeks, who are in a really bad situation and you come to give them crumbs. As far as Matty is concerned, where the Prime Minister went yesterday, people laugh. Someone told SYRIZA that he's going all the time and seeing people. Of course he's never set foot. Twice he has gone and when he says he did it without the channels, he meant he went with his own staff to take the photos he wanted - he always goes - hidden in a cafeteria with his own people, who are not even from the area, and does a communication show, however he wants to reject this designation. I would like to make another complaint because tomorrow is an important day for the Greek youth, which is awakening. I would like to make a public complaint, because for what happens tomorrow, SYRIZA and the JRC will have sole responsibility. Some students, therefore, throughout Greece, decided undividedly, without being ordered from anyone. I would slowly like to submit here to the ladies and gentlemen of the Minutes a number of issues. He says, "Gavroglou - the main "principal" in introductorys - here: "Should the nationalistic poison of chrysalis be isolated from the schools". No announcement, no support for the Golden Dawn and yet everywhere golden is seen by the Left. He puts in and Pavlos Bridge to make the soup and the bald one better. It calls, of course, on the students to react. I'll submit it to the Minutes. Today on your page, your party body, at avgi.gr, you have built a school coordination and students in Athens and invite students to prevent the occupations tomorrow and talk about extreme right, fascist groups, etc. I read from "AGEY", your institution: "If they think they can make fascist nationalist marches in Greece's neighborhoods and cities, they are deeply miserable." Call the students to raise their heads on the street, etc. I will also testify to this, because I would like to know this: one of the prosecutors in Greece following how many publications in your party paper will intervene to prevent anything from happening tomorrow. Yesterday the front page of "AGEY" had a swastika and said no to fascism. Who talked about fascism? Along with the front page of "AGEY" I will deposit three photos of schools, which are only hung on Greek flags. I call on the para-state symbols to bring a photo not second - you, Mrs Vaki, bring it here when you speak a photo - from a school with a fascist, as you say, or a party symbol. We've been receiving the last ten hours of phone calls. I have another front page here - 'Great climate' - which I would like to present, because tomorrow there may be many things that you will be fully responsible for and that is why I would like to catch up with you today. That's what the JRC's unscrupulous people are about. Non-governmental organizations - and I stress - share brochures and they are so unscrupulous that if we claim what we claim for Macedonia, we will have war on even Serbia. That's all you left of all the ribbons in your greedy mind. I would therefore like to see, because this man, the leader of the third party, has no other step than the Step of the House, because we are excluded, to read out the statement by Mr Michalliakos as an answer, because when Mr Gavroglou makes a statement and talks about golden people, it is played by all the channels, it is played by all the sites. Mr.Michalokos has no further step, so I will read it from here to video: "The Minister of Education of the Nationalist SYRIZA who sold out our Macedonia with the Prespecies Agreement refuses the right to Greek students to protest, having the highest level of Galiano for our Macedonia. Unlike those who burn the Greek flag, the protected criminals who unpunishedly destroy every one of Athens, Gabroglou and the Bolsheviks who rule the country, they have no problem. The Golden Dawn - notice - "hails the Greek students, who are today the national leadership in the fight against ethnicity and xenophobia. Red para-state bullies won't pass! Red terrorism won't go to school! Today schools and tomorrow universities will be the stronghold of a national counter-attack against those who hate Greece and its history. Nikolaos G. Michaeliakos, Secretary General of the People's League - Golden Dawn. I'm going to put this in the Minutes too. Also keep for the minutes another post from an announcement by the 1st ELME, which invites students to kick. Teachers are calling to kick their students. See what is happening today in Greece, in 2018. And all this, why is it happening? Because you're short-circuited. You saw that Greek youth doesn't sting at polytechnic fairy tales and the others that you've been sowing them in the brains so many years. It wakes up on a national theme. And that's not just short-circuited you, but it's brought you into a bad position. He's brought you to panic. You don't know what you're doing. Teachers are trying to mess with students. That's never happened before. For teachers, it's okay for students to smoke chaos in high school! It's all right! You're not bored, brother! Burning the Greek flag is no big deal. Participate in the "gay pride", great honor! According to SYRIZA, they can make a gender change at fifteen! But there's one thing they can't do. They can't hold the Greek flag in their hands - and that's why I brought the evidence, because only the Greek flag holds in their hands - and they protest for the self-evident. We are a country that claims self-evidently, what the whole world knows. The whole planet has known for thousands of years that Macedonia is one and it is Greek. As much as this hurts you, it is not Slavic, it does not belong to Bulgaria or Skopje, it belongs to Greece. As much as it hurts you - I repeat - this is what students demonstrate and have every right to do so. And, of course, you have no right to stop them. You have no right to blackmail them. You have no right to punish them, as we have seen happening to the Older and other schools in Macedonia. You are forbidden to terrorize Greek youth. The Greek youth has become a river. She's awake. He says no to all these fairy tales that the post-political system has supported for so many years in Damanakis, the "Laliottes". It says no to those who cashed - if they were inside the Polytechnic, I say 'if' - every second that was in the Polytechnic with millions. Look where Damanaki is! Look at the "Saliots"! Look at all those who are here today. I address to you Greek youths. I am not saying this for the Greek Parliament, because they have sent them here. All these years they sent the polytechnic generation to represent us everywhere and, of course, to lift their pockets! But it's okay. We also have to wish Mr Gavroglou and all the unwilling ones, whether they are right or neoliberal - who do not even support these mobilisations, only party to party seeing it - and all to the left. We wish them a lot of vinegar. The Greek youth is waking up. Let's not see it. Greek youth will be a pioneer in the struggle for a free Greek Macedonia, for a free Greek Northern Epirus. I give you the above-mentioned documents.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u62	We're on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u63	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u64	Of course, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. After this delusional, fascist speech within the Greek Parliament, I would like to address all the forces of the democratic arch in order to stand against it and against the efforts of the Golden Dawn to sow the nationalist fascist poison to school pupils. All parties must face this new danger together and the effort being made towards young children who may be drawn from what is called love at home to see it in a distorted way. I'll beg you to place yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u66	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u67	Mr President, just for a second...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u68	No, no. You don't have a second. You don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u69	It's okay. I'll say it. For the Minister, then, "Macedonia is Greek" is fascism.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u70	Well, you didn't just say that. You said a lot more. That's another matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u71	Congratulations! We have also learned your views on Macedonia. We knew them, of course. You didn't have to.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u72	We shall proceed with Mrs Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou, Member of the New Democracy. Here, my colleague, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u73	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, today we are discussing a Community directive, which is part of the three-fold legislative framework of the European Union on the protection of personal data. I will not go into details, firstly because the honourable Member and rapporteur of the New Democracy have covered it completely, but also because the legislative improvements I have proposed have been incorporated and accepted - rightly so - by the Minister. Of course, the government is not at all interested at the moment in general in the protection of personal data. If she were interested in it, she would have brought the law of the Ministry of Justice to discuss it here, because that is the essence of the matter. What is happening today is that we are coming here to discuss the amendments, because these amendments, as Mr Tsakalots said here, are serving the record of Mr Tsipras. And they serve it consistently. I will admit that, because one is Mr Tsipras' record and we have heard this once again here in the House. You're making fun of people to steal their vote. That's the account. You once made fun of the world in the elections with the programme of Thessaloniki. Then it was not Minister Tsakalotos, who is called the Prime Minister today. It was then Mr Varoufakis, who called him "asset" for the government. We've reached the edge of the cliff. The Prime Minister admitted his delusion. We have internationally established the term 'assomba'. And while the world was still in shock that the banks were closed up and that a split referendum had led us to the edge of the cliff and even before it felt in its pocket, in fact, huge account brought by your irresponsible behaviour in the Greek economy, you fooled the world second time and poured out, you stole his vote. And then you were completely handed over to strangers, where Mr. Tsipras today is the one they are using to sample the 'bad' children of Europe who do not obey, such as Italy and you looted Greece. You've unleashed a robbery tax raid targeting the middle class. Mr. Chakalotos admitted it cynically. You robbed the freelance professionals and businessmen with insurance contributions. You robbed the pensioners by cutting off the ESS with twenty new and unnecessary cuts in their pensions. You robbed the workers. You made the generation of 360 euros. There is a record of part-time work, and today ILO goes out and tells us that we have had the highest wage reduction throughout Europe, that is, 3.5% in 2017, while in the mid-crisis Samaras in 2014 we had a 1.9% increase. You robbed the state. 'Whack' cash in the Ministries, the municipalities. You broke AKAE's pigeon. You robbed the public property of Greece and promised it for a hundred years. And we're looking to find the archaeological sites. And then you tied the country with high primary surpluses and put it in a enhanced surveillance regime for years. And you have unleashed a rabies mud attack to sneeze anyone who dares to resist you. Now if you robbed anything else there with the immigration or if anything happened at 'Eleftherios Venizelos', etc., you will consider this House, in which there will be a different majority and justice in the future. I remain in the fact that you robbed the real economy through overtaxation through the cut-off of the Public Investment Programme, through the internal payment stop, in order to build the surplus that, with British accent and humor, the Minister said to us, is 'kavanja'. All this, therefore, to have an unnecessary 'kavanja', which is made up of thirteen. And Mr. Tsipras came here today to tell us that he brings the stolen goods back to the people. Do you understand now? Robbery with 100 billion euros 'fesi', twenty-nine tax increases, 9.5 billion euros, and now share the surplus, the surplus that you used when Mr Samaras had brought it. And you now share it on the basis of one by ten with the sole criterion of voting. How do you do that? You are a fragmented copy and a huge delay in the announcement of the President of the New Democracy and Chief of the Cyriakos Mitsotakis Police, without a plan, without a strategy, without a program, with nothing. And you've been fighting four years later, half the years, you've been ruling memoirs, getting to 2014. You progressively announce a 30% reduction in HPAI in specific groups, when Mr Samaras had announced a reduction horizontally in 2014. You don't like that. And we're fighting to reach 2021 to have a tax at 26%, which is where you found him. That is the record, Mr President. I didn't even have to take my time to describe the account. You're making fun of the world. And you keep mocking him. But it is the swan narrative of the talented Mr. Tsipras, a last and hopeless attempt that he is making by sharing, feeding, dividing to steal the votes of the Greek people and limiting - he thinks - his election crash. Can I tell you something? We say, "One of the thieves, two of the thieves, three and his bad day." And you do well, Mr. Tsipras, and you count days, even a hundred days. Take a 180-degree turn and count backwards, because the election day is coming. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u74	Mr President, I would like to speak for a moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u75	Yes, Mr. Theocharopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u76	Mr President, we have had a fascist delicacy just now by the representative of the Golden Dawn, which we want to condemn very clearly. The Democratic Independence condemns it very clearly. Everything he has said, everything that the extreme-right speakers keep saying in our country, everything that they say in relation to the Polytechnics, while at that time some people have honoured and tried to defend democracy in our country and their likes, the Golden Dawn people in here wanted the dictatorship in our country. And, of course, stay away from the far right, stay the nostalgic fascist regimes from school. Stay away! Students know very well to fight for their real problems, but to stay away, because all these slogans we see, for example, that 'democracy has sold Macedonia' are the exact opposite. The Golden Dawn likes sold democracy. That's the reality, that's what's actually happening. One more thing, Minister, because I think that we have all agreed on this, at least the democratic forces in the country - I hope - finally to conclude - to your government, I mean - as far as institutional functions and institutions can be helped to speed up the procedures to complete the trial of the Golden Dawn. It is accused of being criminal, to be completed so that there can finally be justice in our country. We cannot have spent so many years and still be in the situation that we are in today and wait for the outcome of the trial. And from the Greek justice and from the Greek Government in any institutional way, we are asking for those diagrams to be created, so that we can speed up the administration of justice, so that we can finish with these phenomena.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u77	Thank you for your intervention, Mr Theocharopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u78	Mr President, I would like to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u79	Here you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a teacher's worst nightmare is to enter his school and see the slogan: 'Democracy' - democracy, be careful! - 'He betrayed Macedonia'. We must not - and it is our historic duty - leave fascism, intolerance, racism and nationalist hatred to enter our schools. We must not let all these hate sermons poison students, our children. Nationalism doesn't have a place in schools. And I call in my turn all the forces of the constitutional arch and the Civic Opposition, for that disgrace and the delicacy that we lived before. Look, the Greek Parliament has recently been brutally abused by neonazi structures, which make use of the rights of democracy, in order to devour it daily. Let us not allow them to be brutally abused and our schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Vaki. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, thirty-seven students and students and two educational attendants from the 3rd High School of Thessaloniki. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Tell the students attending the Parliament’s meeting that you are attending the meeting of a bill, which is being discussed in the House, is voted at the end and becomes a law of the state. As you know, Parliament has two main functions. One is to legislate, such as this procedure, which you are monitoring today, and the other is what is called parliamentary scrutiny, namely a government's control by Members of all the parties, by means of a certain procedure, where the government, the ministers, are obliged to come to Parliament and to give an answer to a dialogue between the Members of Parliament, who are also controlling the government, which explains its position. Let's move on with Mr Mavroudi Voridis, Member of the New Democracy. Mr. Voridis, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, if you have not understood this, it has also been revealed today. A hundred days is running by Mr. Tsipras! It started recently. Of course, his government is not responsible. They were others. Looking for who? To find out who they were who increased the tax to legal persons when they found him with the Antony Samaras Government at 26% and took him to 29%. Who did this? Tsipras didn't do it, he's been here a hundred days, it's for the reduction. Let's see who he is, who made the VAT increase. Not Tsipras, someone else would be! Who is he who has taxed wine, who has recommended the famous Katorugalou law with insurance contributions? He wasn't Tsipra's Minister, Karugalos. I stress, Tsipras has been a hundred days since he accepts no other responsibility. Of course, the Law of Friday for the releases did not make him by the Tsipras Government. Not even the abolition of press releases for Moria and her indulgence, it's not the Tsipra government's fault. It's someone else's fault, we're going to be looking for responsibilities. Where do you say that? Who listens to this and doesn't laugh? Who are you trying to convince with these absurdities? Don't you take responsibility for four years of governance and you've started to rule, bare and white virgins now? Now is the start? And let's see why we need to cheer you. Mr. Prime Minister came here, very happy. He says something about his account. What's his record exactly? It says: 'We will reduce from now on'. A drop - drop - brings us this, it's painful. We have nothing to say. He's left us speechless, and he's subjected us to this torture. What's the torture? That we handed him the legal person tax to 26%, that he took the legal person tax to 29% and now he starts reducing it for the next four years to reach 2021 to 26%. Congratulations! Well done! Bravo! In 2021, if you stay in the government, you will have reached the tax where Samaras had it when you took the government. Now, let's congratulate you on that, are you serious? ENVIRONMENT. He insulted us. It says 'Who are you?' In other words, the infamousness of the man I think will remain a proverb in Greek history. He has insulted us, ladies and gentlemen. He said: "Who are you, who dare to talk about ENPIA?" Who's giving up on us? The one who was elected with agendas to abolish HISPIA. And since he is not going to be abolished until today, he is going to make a 30% reduction to up to EUR 60,000, that is, marginal and insignificant relief, of course, he is not going to be abolished even today, but it is also much less than what we are saying. We call a horizontal 30% reduction for all. And he's coming today and he's swinging our fingers. The one who has ensnared the economy, the one responsible for the lowest rate of growth in Europe, the one who, after five years of his government, has retained the highest rate of unemployment, the one who has devoured us to the ladders of competitiveness in the economy, is here and you are applauding over. What do you applaud exactly? Why are you happy after a four-year disaster? Why are you happy? Instead of coming up humilityly and reluctantly to say that you had an opposition to you that didn't have your own mess, who didn't deprive you of everything, who didn't blame you for being traitors and donors, but we sat responsibly - not for you, for our homeland, obviously, and for the citizens - to make creative opposition to a zero government and instead of recognising that, you also shake the finger from above! Watch out, and here's the first part. I heard this amazing, sensational, too. For the first time in my life - I have been in this Chamber for twelve years - I hear the Prime Minister coming, Mr Davaki - listen, our rapporteur - and say: 'Synthetic successes, you can no longer speak of lawlessness. We've caught some supermarket robbers." The Prime Minister said so. Supermarket robbers, police! Congratulations! Congratulations, for it is true that it is a great success, because in his mind the usual thing is not to arrest the robbers of the supermarkets. So, if they're arrested, he comes and announces it as a success of the police force in the House. No Greek police spokesman, Prime Minister! For the white collar now. I don't know if you understand, but those forensic professors who wrote about the "white collar" in their minds had "Richard". This is the standardization of the white collar criminal! Take note, however, of this, because in the way we are discussing it, a bill is of course wrong, which is important to deal with international terrorism. But where can we now talk about international terrorism, but also about government delays in this matter? He is late to incorporate the PNR directive, he is, of course, delaying, because there are still two presidential decrees left and to see when they will be issued, he has not bought the software, the implementation and the interconnection to deal with international terrorism, for which we are internationally controlled, he will last five years. Okay, sometime it would have brought in the directive. Incorporating the directive, however, is obviously a very small first step, so that you can have an effective data collection that leads to an effective response to terrorism. [[At the point, the end of the speaker's speaking time is ringing.]] Do I have your permission, Mr. President, for a while?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u83	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u84	Thank you very much. At the same time, however, other enthusiastic ones are coming. For example, the question of fire extinguishers comes. Yes, sir. The extension is given in order to be able to fill in gaps from those who are implicated. But they, if I remember correctly, are eighty-five. With the remaining five hundred fifty what are you going to do? Fifty-five is part of a thousand two hundred fifty contractors, for whom there has been a legislative provision since our day, which you are constantly postponing, that this issue is going to be settled. What are you going to do with them? In the end, you have recently gone and promised them that there will be uniform application, that is to say that the question of their working hours will be settled. That is what has been done in November at a meeting, that is to say now you have done it. What have you planned for this? When will you apply it? When do you intend to resolve this issue, which you have committed yourself to? But he's also bringing the provisions for the Eye. I have heard, once again here, what he has told us here as major successes for Matti, which you know are systematically announced to the inhabitants, already in the summer, and we have November. The asbestos is still supposed to be collected and we have certain contractors - did Mr. Tsipras not say here? - Yes, this story about the asbestos the residents in Matty are listening to from the end of August, early September. So what's going to happen? The asbestos waits and you think the cancer waits when the contracts will finally be activated? But here too - Mr Famelos has come - we need clarification. I'm sorry about how to develop matters. We should have more time to really be able to deepen up, but unfortunately, the body of issues, concentrated in too short a time, does not give this opportunity. For example, there is a procedure for the affected buildings, for which housing aid must be granted. But there is a time limit. What? The definition of a building line and a rhetoric line. That's a question for Mr. Femello. It must be clarified in order to make it clear and not to raise concerns. After defining the building and sewerage line, what is to be done? Is that a matter? There is also a second issue, which has to do with paragraph 1. A suspension is arranged in the issue of building permits. That's right. However, it is also stipulated that road distances may be altered by a joint decision of the Ministers, road sections added, suspension. But does this not, after all, create a huge insecurity as to what is going to happen with the reconstruction and reconstruction conditions of the region? Ladies and gentlemen, I close by saying this. It is obvious here that the anguish of a SYRIZA Falling is to convince us that it suddenly has no responsibility and that we hear the shocking time begins to count in the last 100 days! But in the end, things are data. You have done four years and we have also done so and comparisons are inevitable. Our people remember that our homeland came out of the crisis when you decided to interrupt the work of the Antonis Samaras government to immerse us in a prolonged crisis, from which we have not yet come out!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u85	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u86	Wait a minute, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Do you want to have the floor as a parliamentary representative or to make a comment?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u87	As a parliamentary representative, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u88	Would you mind making a comment on what Mr. Dannelis has heard since the Golden Dawn so that I won't interrupt you later?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u89	Not at all, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u90	Mr. Danielle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u91	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank the colleague. Perhaps, knowing that 'Klazmeni Klazmeni', one might not comment on the well-known omissions of the Golden Dawn, but here we have something extremely dangerous, Mr President, that has been evolving over the last few days. Because the mistress of society, but also of the constitutional arch, is dangerous for democracy, and here we are dealing with the invasion of the Golden Dawn in schools. That is why I would like to say that the apologies of Nazism and fascism are not entitled to speak of homeland and patriotism. And because it is a new case, that is, their invasion of the school, and that is an exceptional risk for the incubation of the snake's egg for tomorrow, which comes tomorrow, because today's pupils are tomorrow's citizens, which is why the Republic must protect itself. For this reason too, because we must not leave mithridism, I think we should put a brake on this immunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr. Dannelly. You know, of all that has been heard, most important, in my view, is the motto: 'Democracy has sold Macedonia'. In other words, we are not defending Macedonia, but we are directly changing against democracy, that is, nostalgics of diversion, have come here to teach Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u93	They have nothing to do with homeland and genuine patriotism, and let everyone understand that!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u94	Mr President, may I have the floor to answer some questions?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u95	Yes, Mr. Karathanasopoulos is just waiting for the Communist Party of Greece to take the floor and say what he wants on it and what he wants.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u96	After Mr. Karathanasopoulos, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u97	Yes, Minister. The Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Karathanasopoulos has the floor for 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u98	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, they are the very ancestors of Golden Dawn, who delivered Macedonia to the Bulgarian conquerors and cooperated with the Germans and Italian fascists and Nazis, to take the Greek people down, leading him to poverty and impoverishment. So today the fascists of the Golden Dawn preach nationalism and hatred among the peoples, because they hate every people, every people. With these actions, with nationalism, they do nothing but facilitate imperialist designs, which make use of nationalism, hatred among the peoples, to strengthen their position in order to change the borders, to create states, bases and protectors. Of course, not all of these who today are in a position to face up to fascism with the plans of the Americans and NATO in the region, and especially this government, which is also the signifier of the American imperialists. From this point of view, therefore, I do not know why the Minister addressed the JRC and, of course, did so within the framework of all the other parties - when it is known that the JRC, i.e. the Communists and the Red Army, were the ones who historically crushed Naziism and fascism, and today we want to break the offspring, that is to say we throw them away from the schools, from the neighborhoods, factories and forefathers. By the way, we would like the government to see concrete measures to speed up and complete this trial, because the way it goes is never going to end. In this case, the Government must assume its responsibilities for the completion of the proceedings. I'll have a word about the bill. Our rapporteur has been mentioned in detail, but the question is not about the JRC's position, because the JRC is voting against this directive. We have clearly been placed because with this new enclosure system, namely the records of air passengers inside and outside the European Union, a network of repression is being established in the European Union and in civil governments at the expense of the people. Passenger details, including nineteen categories of data, will be maintained and exchanged between the secret services of the Member States and third countries for at least five years. On this basis, passengers will be categorised accordingly. Therefore, the objective of this particular directive and of all the repressive mechanisms is to limit the popular freedoms and rights which monopolies, the European Union and governments are at risk. However, the question - and this is why we are voting against it - is that the current government is proposing this directive when its MEPs on 14 April 2016 had hypocritically voted against this directive in the European Parliament. That is a question that SYRIZA, of course, will have to answer. I now come to the subject where the biggest debate has taken place. And today we have nothing but a bombing of amendments to build your account. What's that? The next day, capitalist development, capitalist development, which is taking place on the ruins of the rights and living standards of the people, which the current government has created, by taking over from the governments of the New Democracy and the PASOK. Do you really think this bombing of amendments is abducting the class character of your policy? Of course, I'll agree with the Prime Minister. You have a clear class character, but not in favour of workers and poor people's strata. You have a clear class character in favour of large capital, in favour of business groups, in favour of monopolies. The planning of the urban order is also being implemented in our country. Where does that come from? Let's get some examples, Minister. Firstly, not only have you maintained the anti-Semitism of the New Democracy and PASOK, but you have taken it one step further. You've banged labour rights, you're forming working jungle conditions. How is that confirmed? Just evidence. What did the International Labour Office report say? Greece in 2017 decreased the private sector wage by 3.5%, the real wage. Is that not the result of the anti-corruption measures, which the current government has maintained after the previous governments? What's going on and saying? Not only that, but it says in the decade from 2008 to 2017 on an annual basis, the real wage in the private sector was reduced by 3.3% and in the PASOK Governments and the New Democracy Governments and SYRIZA - ANEL Governments. So no new era came, no new day. Second evidence revealing why you have a class policy in favour of capital: 25% of private sector workers are paid less than EUR 500, up to EUR 500. Is this a result of your own policy? Of course, it is a result of your own policy. Thirdly, new jobs, which are shaped, flexible, part-time and rotating jobs. Shall we go to insurance? But, the core of the insurance system, the Pinochet system, which was in previous insurance laws of the New Democracy and PASOK, you took him a step further. On the substance, what did you say? That insurance is an individual case and that the state only guarantees EUR 360, at present, the national pension. Nothing else can guarantee from there. If the worker wants to do so, he can make individual insurance either with the professional funds or with insurance companies. The Pinochet system is projected by the Katrugalu law and is the quintussy of the Pinochet system. And all this, why are you doing it on the labour market, breaking the workers' working and insurance rights? Because you want to shield the competitiveness and profitability of business groups. And don't tell us that's gonna change since 2019, because we've been in a memorial period, because you're owning the Brutsi Act. The Brutsi Act has now become the Brutsi - Ahcioglu Law, which the wages and changes in their employment relationships integrates into the name of the competitiveness and profitability of business groups. If these are questioned, then there is no change, no improvement. On the contrary, in this way, what you want to shield is competitiveness and capitalist profitability. And not only theoretically, we see this from the state budget, which you tabled for 2019, which is cruel, barbaric and classic. What are you doing? A billion extra taxes will be called on to pay the labour market households for 2019. Not a tax relief, but a tax burden is this one additional billion euros. What are you doing? You reduce the benefits for workers by 530 million compared to 2018. You are reducing the pension by EUR 300 million. New reductions in pensions. We have a reduction in funding in hospitals, which are ready to collapse. You reduce funding in 2019. You reduce funding to local authorities, municipalities, by 750 million to put new taxes, new charges. You are reducing state funding to insurance funds by EUR 935 million, to transfer these to the insured's pockets, to pay more for their medicine and health. You're reducing the unemployment benefit. At the same time, you say and celebrate that you are no longer reducing pensions, when what you have decided - and that is why the Commission's communication states that in exchange for no reduction, no dismantling of personal differences is the freezing of pensions by 2022, which will have the same financial effect. At the same time, you are abolishing the extension of the school meal program, you are abolishing the setting up of nursery and preschool education units, and then you say that children have no place to go to the nursery. You are reducing the rent subsidy and, of course, you are not subsidising the involvement of those insured. So here's what the person of your deep class and anti-popular politics is. However, what is particularly revealing is the attitude you are taking in relation to capital and is the amendment that you have brought here, where you are reducing the tax rate for business groups, monopolies and capital by one unit for 2019 and gradually for five units. So, what are you doing? You have died in taxes and with this bloody surplus that you create, you are giving new tax exemptions for big capital. The people, in other words, raise the burdens of which the large capital is exempted. In fact, in the amendment you have brought, and in 2019, they will also have a benefit of EUR 145 million, which was not provided for in the budget, which you tabled for businesses. And that is not all, but you are preparing to bring, even more scandalously, the reduction in the tax rates of the distributed profits from 15% to 10%. Who are you protecting? You're protecting the elites. You're taxing the people to protect the economic elite. You have created an unfair class tax system for the protection of elite, for the protection of business groups, for the protection of shipowners, industrialists and bankers. This is the tax system of SYRIZA - ANEL, as it was also PASOK - New Democracy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will be done in a minute. From this point of view, you continue - it is not who made him the law - the law on ENPIA, the tax raid on the people's residence with ENPIA. And not only do you abolish him, but the burden that still applies is maintained and you say that you are now reducing for a number of dozens of euros the tax burden which, instead of going ahead, the JV has submitted to the exemption from the first and secondary residence from the HPAI, which covers housing needs and that the large business groups are also taxed on the real estate, to tax the large real estate, which is located on various offshores and does not pay a penny of sack on the substance of the large real estate. From this point of view, of course, and any benefits that will have been put into question - I say to HICPIA - of the case of adjusting the objective values which may be increased. As for the social dividend you give, it is "to burn you, Giannis, to lure you oil". You get 700 billion more, 7 billion more - this is the surplus - for 2018, 7 billion more is being paid by the Greek people to return to 710 million. I mean, you take him ten to get him back one and be happy. It's the joke about Hodja, if you know it. You know that very well. This is precisely nothing but a recycling of poverty. In other words, less poor people pay for the most poor, precisely because your policy and capitalist capitalist capitalism have led to the impoverishment of vastly populous strata. As regards the amendment to the fire-fighting areas there, we shall vote against it, precisely because it does not address the problem of unrealistic construction. There is no integrated spatial planning. These are fragmentary measures. These are semimeters, which do not deal with the problem. Here should have been an integrated spatial plan and town planning, which would make it easier to upgrade the quality of life of the local residents with modern homes, with modern schools, hospitals, with free spaces, with sports and recreational spaces. Such planning, however, does not exist. On the contrary, we are very afraid that under certain provisions something is hidden or can be exploited by certain provisions of this amendment, in order to concentrate the earth on less and less hands. After all, the housing allowance does not solve the housing needs of the people's family in these areas, which are facing serious problems of survival and of meeting their needs. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u99	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u100	Mr. President, excuse me. I shall reply to some questions from the House and Mr Voridis. However, because I do not want to do this many times, if there is a question on the amendment, with your permission, it could be done now and I can answer it all together.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u101	Good. Is there a colleague who wants to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u102	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u103	Here, Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u104	Minister, as you can see, we as a Change Movement have also been placed in the more general debate that has taken place on the occasion of the legislation on Matty and New Buja. The direction is to help to improve the conditions for rehabilitation of the affected. And I think that's a common target. My first question therefore concerns the demarcations and suspension of building permits in relation to road demarcations. Here there is a clear time-limit in the amendment, but at second level it comes to say: "By a joint decision of the Ministers for the Environment, Energy and Infrastructure may change the above distances, add parts of the roads, withdraw the suspension, or extend its duration, according to the traffic study data, as will emerge". On substance, there is no objection, there is a question, because by reading this arrangement, one understands that this can be done during the course of the year. So the question is this: what time limit? Until the completion of urban planning and finalization? Until when can this be done and how many times? One is that. We also consider housing aid to be very important. In the case of housing aid, the amendment tabled states that this can be paid if the properties - as described above - are demolished in their entirety before the construction and reservoir line is fixed. This "prior" when does it mean? What's the definition? The one who is now going to become, or the one who will be finalised by the urban study and the finalisation of the new project? Because if he's the present, you understand there's no time. There are procedures and these are time-consuming. That is the main question. And with regard to the same subject: why, by decision of the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport - in this case, Mr Spirtzi, but of the Minister, whoever it is - must the amount be paid? That's a lot of bureaucracy and it'll be late. There could be a Minister's decision authorizing us to lay down the details, in order to facilitate the process, that is to say, to go faster. I repeat that these are questions and reservations, which concern both efficiency and clearer imprints. Finally, Mr President, thank you for your tolerance - as far as the Social Housing Benefit is concerned, my question is where we have streams or any forest land on which this grant is based. Based on the property title? What exactly is he asking for? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Christophilopoulou. Minister, would you like to answer now or later?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u106	Yeah, I don't think there's another colleague to ask me a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u107	Very good, we're listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr President. It is a fact that it helps - and I think - the people who are listening to us in this debate and I would like to clarify a few things. The first issue was raised by Mrs Christophilopoulou and Mr Vorides, if I have listened well, in his position, and it concerns whether the suspension will be altered because of the traffic study. So we clarify - I said in the initial introduction - but it must be quite clear - that today the issue of building permits is suspended only in the parts described here for the roads of Karpathos, Cyprus, Orbeits, Poseidon, Republic, Asia Minor - eight-and-a-half meters from the axis - and the Cyanos Coast, Achilles and Anonymity, which are the most obvious extension to the Poseidon Road, Evvoikos, Tritonos, Pericles, Argyras Beach, eight metres from the existing axis. That alone is enough and the restoration procedures are being formulated and started. We are not expecting any other suspension and this suspension zone is not amended. With this suspension zone the restoration begins, including demolitions, repairs and regression. It's three different scenarios. Some are repaired on the ground when they do not fall within the suspension zone, some retreat, and some are converted into compensation for demolition, and some are probably demolished when they are in the suspension zone or streams and forests. What does it mean that the ministers are authorized to amend it by means of a new traffic study? It is quite clear that this will only be done in the preparation process of the Special Spatial Plan. That is to say, it refers to the regularity of the urban planning that begins - and only to it - with the traffic study of the Special Spatial Plan - so, once and not in the biennial - and it can be modified, because the Special Spatial Plan can take another road out for it alone. And it's the regularity of the town plan. It's not another - if you want - subjective initiative. It is only the Special Spatial projection, because the area is also in the spatial planning now, so that it is - we have said - completely organized and properly planned. No further eternal amendments to the suspension act. It only connects it to the Special Spatial Plan and environmental legislation. Secondly, which is very important: Article 2, concerning the affected buildings, which fall within the suspension area and the performance, if you wish, of the so-called'standard aid', states the combination with the definition of the building and sewerage line. It says, “...when they are demolished in their entirety before the construction and casting line is fixed.” What we want is for there to be room for the town plan. So we say that until the Special Spatial Plan, which defines the building and sewerage lines, must have been demolished, so that there can be quick intervention in urban planning, that the space available is sufficient. It is not Article 1 definition of a building and sewerage line, that is to say, it is not consistent with the current suspension act, because, moreover, it would not have been possible to demolish anything. So we give time, at the same time as drawing up the Special Spatial Plan, until the building and sewerage lines are fixed, what is in this area and of course have the necessary autopsy protocol for the building to be demolished. So I think that we also have time to do this and that people can be given the subsidy of the demolitioner, but there is also the possibility of rebuilding outside the suspension zone. Obviously, I said this in my suggestion - it will enable many holiday buildings, which are made as sewage or as a clipboard, to meet modern construction rules. Here, indeed, is the decision of the Minister for Infrastructure as to the amount of housing aid. This is an administration's choice of testifying to the people involved. We want, in other words, quickly only by the introduction of a service, which is the Rehabilitation Directorate, with the signature of the Minister, to go to pay and be attributed to the citizens. With regard to the exceptional social housing allowance, I have to agree with you that it is much more special, because it concerns the forest area and the area of the poppa stream. There the allowance is granted, after the buildings have been demolished - it is obviously not allowed to grant licences in these areas - it is only for main and unique residences and dwellings built before the arbitrary time limit, so that we do not have any further arbitrariness and so we are formally applauding them. Because if it is new arbitrariness, clearly it cannot be done. What does he need here? A private engineer study and a lawyer's report on the control of titles is needed. And what's he talking about here? Acknowledgement of their transfer to the mortgage office. You understand that this also confirms the administration that there was ownership or an economic transaction of acquisition of the property and therefore the social housing allowance arises. Otherwise, it may have been a trespass that we cannot accept. This is how it is ensured on the part of the administration that, although it was an infringement of the legislation on land or forests, there was the necessary legal act. At this point, to say that they cannot be settled by the laws on arbitrariness 2013 and 2017, because these laws provided that this arrangement took place outside the area of ramps and forests. Therefore, there is no way that they will have been settled in streams or forests and then come to problems in this process. I think that concludes the answers requested by Mrs Christophilopoulou. I would like to make one final comment. This amendment is a work of both the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport and the Spatial Planning Department and the Environment Department of the Ministry of the Environment. There's a lot of the ministers who sign up to. I hope that I have given an adequate answer because not all the ministers can be present. As regards, of course, what Mr Vorides said - Mr President, I would just like to say a half a minute - the facts of the four-year period, ladies and gentlemen, appear in this Chamber. Who is comfortable with the events of the four-year period is also seen in this Chamber. The Prime Minister came here and presented, not only what we did in the four-year period, but how the trouble and struggle of all Greeks and government brought us today, as we did last week, to reduce insurance contributions, to abolish the trade fee, to reduce taxation, to reduce business tax, and above all, to increase the social dividend. Who doesn't feel comfortable also seems here. And tell Mr. Voridis that my answer is that, if they felt comfortable about their things, and Mr. Samaras and Mr. Mitsotakis, let them be here today to speak. Because what I know was suffered by our country at the end of 2014 was the panic, which happened when they announced that we were coming out on the markets, who were running out of the announcements with the glorious increase in the cost of bonds, as well as how they were leaving as bad students from the fifth evaluation, when they were kicking out the Eurogroup, when they were kicking our homeland, Greece, because they were unable to achieve any of the goals for which they were committed. These are the things of their own four years. And the facts of our four-year-olds are that this country is proud, has a foreign speech, even the political opponents in Europe are applauding it, and it can even give society what you deprived of with your governments. To know who's afraid of their things! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u109	Thank you very much. Mr Konstantinos Katsikis, Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u110	But, Mr President, we had said a Member of Parliament, a parliamentary representative...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u111	Then it's you, Mr. Kegeroglu. [[Noise - protests in the Chamber]] Mr. Katsiki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u112	First of all, I would ask my fellow Members to allow me to speak for two reasons. The first reason is that what you are complaining about is perhaps not the first time. Let me remind you it's happened another time. There are some reasons for this. And the previous time, which one of the two had happened, which, after the first parliament, was speaking, was from PASOK. The second reason is that the parliamentary programme is preoccupied and painful to me. After this I need to speak elsewhere, and time is pushing me. Thank you for your understanding. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, following on from the extensive analyses that have preceded the content of the draft law of the Ministry of Civil Protection, I would like to point out, beyond the contractual obligation, which we have as a Member State of the European Union to implement Directive 2016/681, the need to strengthen our country's legal framework. At the same time, I would like to highlight the important work carried out by the Ministry of Civil Protection and the Greek Police. Perhaps this work is not enough because, unfortunately, there is a tendency to underestimate the efficiency of the task at the time of the task, perhaps because we consider it to be a given task. But every time we underestimate devotion and duty, the exceptions to the rule come to the public, which may, on a timely basis, nullify the presence of the worthy of managers, but at the same time, they remind us of the importance of the work, carried out by those who remain committed to the task which they have undertaken for the protection of the citizen. At this point I believe that the state's debt is to facilitate all these members of the Greek Police, removing the obstacles they face in the performance of their duties. It is a state's debt - I have said so many times - to help this House to make even more effective operational, because I believe that substantial and quiet work is being done by all Greek police officers, from all the neural addresses and services, let alone the ones that are involved in the fight against organised international crime. I am referring to international organised crime because, on the basis of this draft law, the transnational cooperation between the Member States of the European Union is at the forefront of combating it more effectively. With a view to combating international organised crime and terrorism, the functioning of the Greek services is also being reshaped. Therefore, in this draft law, the ELAS Information Management and Analysis Directorate is part of a section entitled ‘ Passenger Data Unit’, which is managed by police personnel. This new section is required to collect and process data transmitted by air carriers in order to assess any signs of passenger involvement in criminal acts and to identify those persons who are investigated by the authorities in cooperation with the European Police Office, namely Europol, for participation in criminal acts. This is, in general, the essence of the draft law, which we are now called upon to incorporate into our national law. I spoke earlier, however, about the silentness of the Greek authorities, the effective and substantial work of the Greek Police. I would like to extend to this area, ladies and gentlemen, because the Greek people are listening to us, and I think it is right that the Greek citizens should know some things that are either not properly communicated or are related to national security issues, which they cannot always make public. The latter, of course, does not mean, in other words, that the success and operational functioning of the police authorities will not mean ineffectiveness in the work carried out by the competent Greek police authorities. Let us not forget that we, as members of the National Representation, may know some things about how to operate and how to view them as data, but this is not the case for the majority of the public, which will be good - to the extent and to the extent, of course - to inform it from this step of the House. I shall, therefore, go to this point, in cases where it relates to the effectiveness of the fight against and repression of criminal acts, as they have been unfolded on Greek territory and which have been dealt with through transnational cooperation. Because we must not forget that, although crime and terrorism are constantly evolving, at the same time the mechanisms for dealing with them are evolving and state and transnational ways of protecting the social whole are constantly being upgraded for the benefit of many. I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to refer to two cases relating to the detection of air traffic crime, where coordinated operations of the Greek authorities were carried out within a structured framework of transnational cooperation, with a happy ending, indeed. I will become more specific: In the summer of 2017 a huge police operation took place on an international scale between sixty-four countries and thirty-three airports, of which thirty-nine airports were Greece. In this transnational operation, which was carried out in cooperation with the European Police Office, Europol, the aim was to identify passengers who are attempting to illegally leave Greece, as according to the competent officials, our country is considered a transitional station, for those people involved in serious organised crime, be they slaves and drug dealers or suspects of terrorist activity. From the Department of Electronic Crime, in cooperation with the Border Protection Directorate and the airport police were identified as a total of sixteen passenger names, which had purchased air tickets with stolen credit card details, while corresponding services throughout the world formed documents for a hundred and fifty-three people. And all this in an operation under the code name "DRAGON", i.e. dragon, an operation that lasted only a few days and was also published in the press. In the autumn of the same year, 2017, the Greek authorities, in cooperation with Europol, in another operation of just two days - the company "TAUROS" this time - dismantled another cycle of trafficking in counterfeit travel documents, which promoted the illegal evasion of people from Greece to England. The Greek authorities, in cooperation with the counterpart authorities of Britain, Germany, Italy, Ireland, Spain, Portugal and Sweden, have successfully carried out a transnational mission aimed at combating organised crime, as treated in the transport sector. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that it is now a joint finding that the smuggling of human beings has emerged as one of the most profitable and widespread activities of organised crime within the European Union. Illegal immigration is now a large, profitable and complex criminal market, comparable to European drug markets. And to prevent, as many voices as are rushing to charge me with a political speech, which is inconsistent with theirs more democratic than my own morality, I will tell you that the evidence I presented just now is from the official Europol press release, as published on the Official website of the European Police Office in November 2017. The European Police Office, ladies and gentlemen, is now talking openly about organised crime, which is related to the illegal trafficking of migrants in Europe. The European Police Office is talking about forgery of legal documents and is characterising this organised criminal activity as a serious threat facing the European Union today. At least that points out - I repeat - by means of an official press release the European Police Office, Europol. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that I have attempted, through the emergence of problems, which concern us, through my reference to criminal acts which have been dealt with within Greek territory, to demonstrate the great need to harmonise our national framework with the European context. And I believe that no one doubts that, at least as far as the country is concerned, it is up to us to work more closely with the other Member States of Europe. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Moreover, the fight against illegal immigration, through air transport, is one of the European Union's main priorities in order to limit organised crime groups active in the United Europe's 'entry gates' and to break the legal channels for immigration. I believe there is another positive step in this direction with the present draft law of the Ministry of Civil Protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u113	Thank you Mr Konstantinos Katsikis, Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks. Mr Vassilis Kegeroglu, Member of the Democratic Alliance, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, we must also observe the rules, because violations of the rules can lead to a greater breach of coke, that is to say, to things that no one wants. I would like to point out that the Rules of Procedure stipulate that, when the rapporteurs start, the positions of the first eight should be completed and then the Minister should be given the floor for a full speech and, hence, the parliamentary representatives, except in cases where the Minister for Small Intervention will ask for the floor, which does not justify the receipt of a speech by the parliamentary representatives. I am sorry that they have taken the floor to put themselves on the challenge, in fact, once again in this Chamber, from the Golden Dawn. It has been rightly pointed out that the best response to the challenge of the Golden Dawn is the democratic armour, but also - finally - to take steps to continue this indistinguishable trial. And the government must assume its responsibilities. From there on, I think that today, on the Prime Minister's initiative, the debate is not about the bill, but about the issues that have to do with the economy and today and tomorrow. And we should point out that the Greek people have paid too much for the 2015 election show by Mr. Tsipras and continue to pay them along with today's show. Today, the Prime Minister came here and confessed that for three years he has exterminated the citizens, with overtaxation, which he imposed on the basis of the third memorandum and, of course, with the maintenance of the ENPIA, which he would abolish. He came here today, but he forgot to tell us both about the abolition of the ESS and about the pensions benefits, issued under the Katrugalos Act from May 2016 onwards. He has fully adopted the agenda of today's social security system, and this is his characteristic that moves him away more and more from any statements of the past on progressiveity. Without shame, he continues to take, even from the weak and the unemployed, ten. Without a trace of self-criticism, he comes here and celebrates the return of one. Of the bloody surpluses he returns 10% and celebrates already. The expressions are Mr Tsipras's own. However, the issue that today is very interesting to highlight is another myth of Mr Tsipras and Mr Tsakalotou who has fallen down. Of course Mr Juliarakis and Mr SYRIZA - ANEL as a whole. We were told that a high tax was imposed deliberately. Unjust bleeding by small and medium-sized enterprises in order to support workers and the weak. Myth! Today, the International Labour Office, ILO, in its publication of its report, demonstrates that a greater reduction in the income of workers took place on SYRIZA. On the so-called progressive. On the so-called left. And not just that. Every day society finds that the abolition of guaranteed social income by converting it through the CRL into a permanent allowance has led the weak to a trap of poverty subsidised. He's cutting them off from work and socially. It has led them to refuse to offer work, to refuse to work - at least legally - and this is the greatest damage that it can cause. We have tabled a comprehensive proposal for a law on economic recovery for social justice, the establishment of a sustainable social state. And because Mr Tsipras asks us many times and tells us that you will vote, of course what comes, lightens and clears up measures by Mr. Tsipras who have borne the Greek people, of course, and we will vote for them. Even a euro relates to these measures. But the question comes and is reversed. Will Mr Tsipras and his parliamentary group accept the proposal for a law of the Change Movement for the economic development of social justice that creates jobs? Where, apart from the substantial reduction in taxation, which will lead to economic recovery, is it also a support for a sustainable social state? In addition to the 29% that we predict to be 20% in four years' time, the abolition of the solidarity tax, the end of the trade, as a whole and not in individual terms, the 30% reduction of the ENPIA, we have a top proposal. It is quite simply said that for each intake of additional workers, the company will be exempted from income or, respectively, will be taken as the cost of all wage costs increased by 50%. For EUR 1,000 wage costs, we will have an exit of EUR 1,500 automatically and it is simply the ultimate incentive to create jobs. Economic recovery, therefore, and job creation. To deal with the poverty trap, we say that the person receiving an allowance will not lose it if he works for six months and receives the social solidarity allowance at the same time. And after re-entered working and re-enter the pace of work, it would be wise to get out of the social benefit system. Second insurance policy on the same subject. If a beneficiary of a social solidarity allowance receives it for a year, without finding a job, the OAED must offer him a job in the private sector, whether in self-government or in the public-private work programme, and the social solidarity allowance supplemented to be converted into a job allowance. And I'm ending up with a third sentence, since we don't have time. It's forty articles. Mr. Koutsoukos said some of them. I will close with the proposal, which includes the draft law on the sustainable settlement of dues. Look, there is a great increase in debt both to the public and to the insurance funds. It has failed the system that was passed through the extrajudicial compromise, because we only have public or insurance debtors. We describe our proposal in three words. In order to be sustainable, it should have no end, but it should be about debts until the date of deposit of the bill, with an advance of 5%, after fines and increases have been removed, other than those concerning smuggling and violations of the Customs Code. With a 5% deposit, then, it can have a hundred and twenty instalments at the same time, if for any reason it loses control, because it will make it pay more than two instalments, it can be reinstated by the 5% advance and at a reasonable interest rate, with a settlement from the first day the arrangement will apply. He's got insurance, and it's the final solution to the problem. So we call on the government, beyond what measures it thinks or thought to take, to see our comprehensive proposal. It is precisely the same cost as what the medium-term programme leaves, that is, it does not go beyond the medium-term limit. Of course, we automatically need to amend the adverse conditions we have as a country, by signing Mr Tsipras, 3.5%, that is, high surpluses and 2.2%. So I close with this question to the government, whether it will accept the proposal for a law put forward by the Change Movement for economic recovery and social justice. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how the House of Greeks organises and operates, forty-seven students and students and four teachers attendances from Havdrup Skole, a school in Denmark. The House welcomes you. Welcome to the Greek Parliament. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We continue with the MP of the New Democracy Mr Christos Boukokoros for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u116	Ladies and gentlemen, while going to the Step of the House today, the Prime Minister said this about HISPIA: "I am accused of not going through the abolition of this tax, but we are not told who has introduced this tax." He asked his question in an inclined mood, almost ironic, gazing at the seat of the New Democracy. Really, does the Prime Minister not know who has introduced this tax? Let me inform him of my humility. Mr. Kourublis, Mrs. Jack, Mr. Bolaris, Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulou and a large number of members of the then government who found a home in the ministries of SYRIZA. Within your government, Prime Minister, there are dozens, hundreds of them perhaps! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] They, Prime Minister, have instituted HISFIA. So don't look at the wrong benches. Addressing the Prime Minister in the people's districts, he did the bills and said that a resident of Kamaterus or Kokkinia, who paid 250 euros, will pay 180 euros this year. So, Prime Minister, what are you saying? That for four years from the inhabitants of Kamateros you have taken 1,000 euros and returned to him this year the 70 euros for HICP and you expect his applause and satisfaction? I would say, friends and friends, that since we have cleared up the matters of origin and also raised up this law - and I say rearing this law, which is not corrected, but is abolished, as someone else has said - I would remind the Prime Minister that the PASOK government, which introduced this law, has implemented it for two years. Subsequent coexistence with Prime Minister Antonis Samaras applied him for two and a half years. Mr. Tsipras himself applied him for four years to ENPIA. So who is - let me express - the real papa of this tax? He's the same person who's healing him down, giving him 20 and 30 and 40 euros. To make things clear, because the recent story, we all remember it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u117	Please, let's have some quiet, if you're kind.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u118	It had also been preceded, of course, by Mr Tsakalotos, the Minister of Finance, saying that he disagreed with the Civic Opposition on the origin of the overcrowd. No, Minister of Finance, we don't disagree, we agree. Does Mr Chakalotos argue that part of the surplus is coming from a reduction in the public investment programme of EUR 1.4 billion? Does Mr Chakalotos argue that 700 million euros of taxes, which had to be repaid to the citizens, were not repaid? Does the Minister for Finance disagree that the timescales to the private sector have increased by EUR 1 billion? If all of this is added to the tsunami of the middle-class overtaxation, which you have exterminated - you have taken up the tax on businesses and professionals from 26% to 29%, and now you promise it will be reduced to 1% every year - the tsunami of seizures of fair and unjust - two million seizures even to undignified benefits - and the raisins that go and come, then the puzzle is completed. The truth is, you're saying the dividend will benefit three and a half million Greeks. To conclude, they will lose the remaining six and a half million Greeks. The truth is, you've taken almost all of them -- and you've got a lot of them -- and you're returning crumbs to the fewer. That's what the numbers say. And this has happened with the whole of Greek society. Today you are giving the dividend in the amendment that we are debating. We agree to give the dividend, but we tell you and we will tell you to all tons that we would prefer it to be a development product. We would prefer it to be the product of growing pie and increasing wealth, not overtaxing and postponing payments. It's so simple. But while you give it to some, you get it from some people. And who are they, Minister? You have fallen under the command of the Security and Armed Forces for three years in retrospectives. You withdrew it. You have also had surpluses in previous years, and you are now giving them to the electorate. Give it a chance, Minister, to tell you you need to see what's going to happen with the low grades, to the extent of the sergeant. Because there's a serious problem there. If there is no amendment or if the joint ministerial decision does not specify it, there will be a risk that the low grades will be forced to repay money. It's a few details, serious about the low grades. They won't get any euros, but there's a risk that they'll get back at least. I know you know that you've been informed. I have tabled a question to the Minister of Finance. They're thousands of these people, and they're the lowest wages. But you also took it from private sector workers. The International Labour Office says that the decrease in private sector wages in 2017 was 3.5%, when the mid-weight reduction in private sector wages over the years of the memorandum was only 3.1%. It was 3.5% in 2017. Who did you get them from? From the Fabrika worker, who works shift shifts, from the construction worker to the food trade, from the multinational and shop worker to the stores.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u119	Did we get these?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u120	The economic environment created by the government's policy has taken it, Minister. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In a minute, Mr President. I do not know whether the left-wing SYRIZA government is satisfied, while a minimum wage of EUR 751 was promised, to see private sector wages cut by 3.5% and to have created the new generation of 'three and sixty's of EUR 360. I don't know what to say. But you also took them from the farmers. Thirty-five thousand farmers did not see the single payment in their accounts, because the government failed what it had voted for. I am referring to the issue of forest maps. While the government itself passed a law and ministerial decisions were adopted, according to which farmers who have a problem with forests can make a claim by 2020 for redemption, without having considered the objection, come and cuts the single aid from 2018 and the ministers are now saying that these aids will be granted at Christmas, i.e. at 45 days' delay. Let's see. But the Greek farmer who did not get the single payment did not want this money to go on holiday, ladies and gentlemen. He wanted that money to grow for the next season. Many farmers did not grow because the government defied what it had voted for. So you took it from too many. You have taken too much, give it to fewer and give it too little. That's the conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr. Bukkaro. Mr. Apostolos Vésiropoulos has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, from yesterday evening to today with the tabling of amendments, we are following the image of a panic government that sees its collapse, not only in the measurements of public opinion, but also in the social sphere. That is why we have seen this rain of amendments. I am starting with the issue of the social dividend, with which you share millions of euros, when you have already taken EUR 9.5 billion from these people with the measures you have taken. Basically you get ten of the citizens and return them one. The social dividend you distribute is not a product of the economic development process, but of overtaxation and of the internal attitude of payments. You have not understood that overtax has already exhausted its limits. When citizens' due tax debts reach 182 billion euros, capital and increases, as long as the country's GDP is concerned, we are not a normal country. Benefits and charity to those of whom you have charged the multiples will not save you from the electoral crash, and you have this surplus because there are still citizens who pay these excessive taxes. He's not like Mr. Tsipras who said he wouldn't pay HISPIA, as he said, and he would have done away with him. We shall now proceed to the amendment to the ENPI, a tax - to correct the main Prime Minister - which was introduced in autumn 2011, the EMCDDA, the Extraordinary Special End of Electroplated Surfaces. This amendment provides that, for 2019, the amount of the final tax that each owner with real estate has to pay up to EUR 60,000 is reduced by 30%. In fact, it is predicted that for those with real estate of more than EUR 60,000, the tax reduction will be limited by EUR 0.7 per 1,000 euros above the 60,000 euro limit. What does all this mean? First, that the discount does not apply to everyone, particularly to the real estate of the middle class. Secondly, that the discount for beneficiaries will be from EUR 40 to EUR 100 per year at best. Third, that applies only to 2019. Fourthly, that there is also the snare of the provision for those with an overall value of more than EUR 60,000, for whom the reduction from ENPI is limited by EUR 0.7 for every 1,000 euros of real estate of more than EUR 60,000. And the examples mentioned by the Prime Minister are wrong. In your first example, Prime Minister, you said about a residence in Keratsini of EUR 60,000, which the owner paid for this year 224 euros and will pay 157 euros in 2019. In other words, it will benefit EUR 67 and a 30% reduction in the tax. That's right. In the second example, however, you mentioned about a property in Thessaloniki of EUR 76,000, the owner of which paid HIS PAY this year EUR 232 and will pay the year, in 2019, EUR 162. It will have a 30% tax reduction and a 70-euro profit. But you have avoided mentioning the cutter, Prime Minister, that is to say limiting the reduction in the EUR 0.7 tax for every EUR 1,000 real estate of more than EUR 60,000. In other words, the benefit will be EUR 59 and not EUR 70, as you said, and a tax of EUR 173 will be paid instead of EUR 162. You are making the same mistake in your third example, Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with the amendment, the supplementary tax exemption for the non-planned parcels and plots is also extended in 2019. Some people consider it an exemption from the HPAI. They are wrong, because, in fact, for the non-planned parcels and plots, Mr. ENVIA is valid and will be paid normally. Ladies and gentlemen, the solution is one and it is the New Democracy's proposal: Horizontal reduction of the ENPI by 30% for all. And this reduction will not only apply for one year, nor will it be limited to a period of time. We will do this immediately after the elections, which you cannot avoid. I come to the amendment to reduce the tax rate on businesses. What does this amendment say? That for the year 2019, i.e. in 2020, the tax rate will be reduced to 28% for enterprises per unit, from 29% in the current year to 28%. And then, with this amendment, the tax rate is gradually reduced to 27% in 2020, 26% in 2021 and 25% for 2022 and for the following years. So, what are you telling us, ladies and gentlemen of the government? That you received the corporate tax rate to 26% in 2015, you increased it to 29%, and now businesses and the real economy will wait in 2022 to tax them with the 26% tax rate charged in 2014. We've been talking for eight years lost. The solution here is one and it is the New Democracy proposal. We have committed ourselves to reducing the tax rate for businesses to 20% immediately and reducing the tax on dividends from 15% currently in force to 5%, because it is the only way to develop the economy. While you are the only way that you know and have proved it, it is to impose taxes. You are the government that imposed twenty-nine new taxes. It brought an improper and painful memorandum with measures of EUR 9.5 billion and dissolved the banking system. You're the government of taxes, confiscations and auctions. Greece, however, deserves better than Mr Tsipras and his Government, which does not hesitate to work on national issues, issues such as immigration, open up for the front of Orthodoxy, and all this to turn them into a huge trading and exchange bazaar, from which the great loser is Greece itself and Hellenism. The country needs another government. The majority of citizens demand elections, so as not to jeopardise the top national interests of this government, but also to implement another policy which will end the current absurdity of overtaxation. This will be the government of the New Democracy and the Lord Mitsotakis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr. Apostolos Vésiropoulos. Mr Adonis Georgiadis, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u124	Thank you very much, Mr President. I shall begin, Minister, with what I have heard from Mr Tsipras, who confesses that every time he succeeds and surprises me further. I take his basic argument that these hundred days we spent since 21 August are the first hundred days of your government and that you should only be judged for these hundred days, because all the previous days were memorial and, therefore, they do not belong to you. That's great! I'm going a little further than that. So all your charges against the Samara - Venizelos government disappear, because the Samara - Venizelos Government didn’t have a hundred days without a memorial. Therefore, in that sense, what you have said against the previous government is, in fact, only a category against the bad foreign lenders who have imposed measures on you, as they have imposed on us. But what does Mr. Tsipras say here? Bad lenders were bad lenders over Tsipras and imposed measures, but they were good lenders over Samaras and they did not impose any measures. I am saying this only to understand the extent of the irrationality that hides this argument, which will allow me to say that it does not convince the members of the Central Political Committee of SYRIZA. Let's go to the second argument: 'Is it possible for you in the New Democracy that we were not dismantled? How dare you?’ And my colleague, Mr. Bukoros, replied very well: "Go, children, the EDPS - because HNPH is the development of the EDPS - Mr. Kourublis voted for it, Mrs. Jack, voted for it, Mrs. So if he wants someone to move his finger, Mr. Tsipras should go to the ministers and his MPs." But I'm going one step further. Mr. Tsipras said something else about HISPIA, which is even more funny. He accused Mr. Mitsotakis that the proposal - he says - that Mitsotakis did at the ICU is unconstitutional...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u125	It is.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u126	...and you can't accept that the Chief of Anti-Population did something with the anti-constitutional. So let's just remember, Mrs. Vaki, Mr. Tsipras, because this is where we forget Greece. When the HCTB first came in - you may not remember, I, unfortunately, have a good memory - Mr. Tsipras turned to the channels and was on the show of my friend, George of Eustria, whom he accused last week - now he doesn't like Eustrias, while he used to like - who said that the HCTB is unconstitutional and, indeed, said: "I will not pay and testify what belongs to me at the HCTB." Then I remember asking the House to see if he had submitted money to the C.E.E.L.E.L.D. Of course she lied to that. A single euro hadn't given the CECE. He had obviously paid the EBRD fine. He went out on another show of Giorgos Evas and said that "I had said it rhetoric, because I had no property, so I didn't have to pay the ERCF, and that's why I didn't give anything to the ERCF, as Georgiadis blames me". But then he came out of his "subjects" and he was fine at home. So he had lied to that, too. We're lying to the cube now. Three lies in a row. But let's go to the best in terms of unconstitutionality. Not only were the EMCDDA unconstitutional and then HICPI, but it has the partner, Panos Kammenos, who, if you remember, Mr. Minister, - of course you remember - had held a press conference at Zappeion along with your other Minister, Terrence Quick, your colleague, and since they explained that HICP is unconstitutional and illegal, the Independent Greeks also provided free legal support to any Greek who did not want to pay the HICP because the terrible lawyers of Terrence Quick and Panos Kammenos would save them from HICP, who was unconstitutional. All of this, of course, was unconstitutional until 2015, because as a magician from 2015 onwards, especially after the famous asshole, which became an international term - Mr. Tsipras' only real offer in modern history is that he delivered another Greek word to the international vocabulary, the asshole - the HISA ceased to be unconstitutional. Then as magically became a constitutional one, because, of course, only as a constitutional tax can it be collected for three years from your Government and only as a constitutional tax can now be reduced, even as you say, falsely, as I will say directly, by 10%. So commonly, cocktails, all Mr. Tsipra's first speech was a lie. He didn't have one truth in it. Let's go to the big one now. What is Mr. Tsipras's major argument? That SYRIZA represents the poor, while Mitsotakis represents the rich. This is the main argument: 'I, gentlemen' - said Mr Tsipras - 'with all the wrongs, with my ass, I fight for the poor, while you, Mr Mitsotakis, are the man of the elites'. Let's go now and see if that's true, first of all in terms of HIS. It decreases - it says - by 10%, 20% and 30% of HISPIA, which is up to 60,000 euros, so it goes and reduces HISPIA to the poor. And it was heard that this could now be 20 euros and some people rightly said that 20 euros are very important for a poor man. And I will say this, that it is all 20 euros important to a poor man. But does it reduce HISBIA to the poor? Answer: No, because in the intervening period it has increased the objective values to the poor. The calculation of the EMI to the poor is now made on the top of objective values. So in the end most of these poor people who wait for the fall will not see it. It's the same thing you did last week with insurance contributions. You have allegedly reduced the insurance contributions on what you have increased for freelance professionals, but at the same time, you have put the insurance contributions of EKKA into income, so you have increased the tax equal or even more. Therefore, obviously, you have not reduced anything for the poor. And how, ladies and gentlemen, could an ally be a government that abolished the EKRD, now abolishes family allowances of EUR 335 million in this year's budget on page 51 and which increased the Value Added Tax from 13% to 24%? But who is the Value Added Tax most harming, ladies and gentlemen? The rich or the poor? So under no circumstances are you government of the poor. You are the government that has tempted the poor to what you have been able to do and to what you have been able to do. As far as the medium-sized strata and business are concerned, I am only tabling what is already in place, just for people to understand it. [[At this point the Member, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Here is the device you bring, which reduces the coefficient gradually to 25% by 2022. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just give me one more minute, Mr President, please. And back is the abolished provision of the previous law. This 2013 law would apply if you did not bring today's law on 1 January 2019. What law? The one you have on the second page - to see the world - that is 26%. Today you are not voting for the 29% reduction to 28%. Today you are voting for an increase of 26% to 28%. That's technically what you did. Don't laugh at all!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u127	We're not laughing!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u128	They are the texts of the Greek Parliament, what your government is tabling. Cologne, Mr. Tsipras came here, said a bunch of lies. He considers that the Greeks suffer from collective amnesia. He forgot what he said in his life over the years and he already demanded that we say - what? - that he should be judged only for the hundred days and only for what he's done since August 21st. This is unbelievable. And I just want to make one final comment on the student occupations and all this phenomenon that we are experiencing. I, ladies and gentlemen, oppose what the Golden Dawn said, was unacceptable and condemned - I am against the occupations. I'm against conquests in general! My view is that the students' job is to go to school, read, get good grades and be ready to be better citizens tomorrow. So I'm starting to say I'm against the conquests. But here, there is a little problem. You have been suffocating us for the neo-liberal movement for decades and how important the occupations are. The prime Prime Minister has advertised himself as the protagonist of conquests in many of his speeches. What happened now? Now we need to make a new distinction. They are the good occupations that you like, that is, the occupations that have left - let us say - a fine, international and a pretext - and in these good left occupations they can say what they want. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] I would like to remind you, for example, of the loss that had happened in Greece, when during the time of the Samaras - Venizelos, a student in a school parade, if you remember, had sneezed in the parade. And when he had been asked whether he should have been expelled from his school because he had pissed off the official, you were all quick to defend the student's right to murmur in the context of the youth movement and the expression of his political opinions. Now I don't understand what moral right you are judging the present occupations. You have told the students of this country that they can take possession! You have told the students of this country that they can blame the political system! You have told the students of this country that they can accuse politicians and have an opinion on all issues, and indeed in a pretextful way! So will you come and blame these particular students just because they say things that you don't like about the press agreement? Well, let's get this straight. I don't give the students the Golden Dawn. Or we all agree that the occupations are a bad thing at school - that is my personal opinion - in general the occupations and ends, or we will agree that if the occupations are a vindicator by students, yes, gentlemen, they can also be taken over that you will not like. But separating the occupations in the good occupations, the left and the bad occupations that you don't like, that's what goes too far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, Mrs Vaki, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u130	Mr President, Mrs Vakis, can I take the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u131	You're welcome, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u132	Here, Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u133	Thank you very much. Mr President, I take the floor because I believe that the National Parliament and the National Representation should be aware of certain things that have a special weight and a particular seriousness with regard to the workers and the prospects they have in our country. A month ago an overwhelming report by EUROSTAT came out, which unfortunately showed that Greece is the last country in Europe to deal with poverty. Yesterday, Minister, another overwhelming report came out, which you did not comment on, on which the Prime Minister avoided placing himself. It's a shameful report. This report, Mr President, has shown - and it is not an accidental report, it is a report by the ILO, the International Labour Organisation, the most reliable Labour Organisation - that our country, our country, Greece, has had the highest wage reduction - minus 3.5% in 2017 - throughout Europe. Conversely in 2014, Minister, who all SYRIZA protested from Syntagma Square and defended, supposedly, the workers' rights were a very significant increase, 1.9%, in employees' wages. I'm sorry about this development. It confirms the deception of the SYRIZA and the use of workers, who are once again the victims of its unresolved policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u134	Mrs Vaki has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u135	Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to begin with what Mr Georgiadis has heard about the occupations and whether we are in favour or against them. Our issue is not whether we are in favour or against the conquests and stop shifting the center of gravity there. Our issue is a single one, whether we are in favour or against the expression of school, whether we are in favour or against nationalist and racist hatred and poison within schools, our students. I call on you to take your position and consider your own responsibilities, as well, for all of this patriotism trade and patriodocaustism, on the basis of your political opportunism for the Macedonian where you have changed four lines.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u136	Mr President, I would like to speak later.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u137	I don't care if you answer me. Sit down and consider our responsibilities and take a position like all the forces of the constitutional arch. We must not allow the school bell to ring in fascism, perfection and dash! I would like to say a few words about the amendments and everything that has been said. A number of ironic comments have been made on these hundred days that the government is ruling and that it did not actually rule before. I'm overdoing it. I'll say a word. Yeah, those are the hundred days after the country's exit from the memoirs. It's the first hundred days of the memorial period and the exit from the memorials, you like it, you don't like it, it's the work of this government. You belong to the achievement of entering this barbarity, of entering the memorial tombs of a country seated, exhausted, bankrupt. I hear you constantly say that we have entered the fourth burdensome memorial and at the same time - an insanity! - to forsake us for compulsion, election promises, appointments, etc. These two together - and fourth memorial and semantics - are not done. I would therefore say to you that we welcome you in a specific memorandum, which disguises the Cassandras who prophesied and prophesied the sufferings and which also circumvented the 'domestic troika', which has occasionally reprimanded various European officials and Moscovisi and Merkel, to give in to the pressures of this government, to resent and mitigate austerity after eight years of barbaric memorials and measures. It is therefore a memorandum of cooperation with society, the restoration of injustices, the healing of injuries. Society still has open issues, it has wounds to heal. We still have a way to go to act on the fruits of prosperity. At least two elements of relief have passed. You've been at risk for three years for the cutter. Every year the Damocles Split of the cutter. Not only did we not see a cutter, but it's the third year the social dividend will be paid. And you are talking about a cut - and that is notable - you who want to base its constitutionalisation. It is you who propose that the budget should be included in the Constitution to ensure an absolute budgetary balance. What's that? Syntaxing the cutter. You're swinging your finger, you're giving us up for the unbearable insurance contributions. Last week we brought the reduction in the insurance contributions of the free traders to 33%. What are your suggestions? Private insurance, capitalisation system with the individual share, 'copy-paste', i.e. the faithful copy of the Pinochet system. I would like to see the least of my time, because the figures and figures are indisputable, no one can question them, to speak with some figures. The budget's coming. Does he have a financial burden? Does it have tax cuts? Is it or is it not the first budget with social costs to exceed EUR 4 billion in family allowances, solidarity benefits, unemployment benefits, housing, nutrition, access to energy? Is it or is it not the first budget, which, after eight years, contains 1 billion tax reductions? The most important of these are the ones that we are voting on today, the reduction of HISPIA, the reduction of insurance contributions that came last week, the reduction of business tax, the grant of social security contributions for young people, the support for special education and care for the elderly. There are seven and a half thousand new recruitments in critical areas, in special education and in the care of the elderly. Because what should we do? Some of us want to set up the social state that was demolished again. In relation to the sustainability of the insurance system, has it closed or not closed in 2018 with a surplus of EUR 1.7 billion and in 2019 will it exceed EUR 1.5 billion? I would like to close with two points. One is a permanent inclination, the issue of investment, and that we are destroying the country, we are not bringing investment, etc. For 2018 were approved by the Ministry of Economy and Development a thousand percent of seventy investment projects in newly created entrepreneurship. In the last two years in tourism direct investment has been more than EUR 3 billion. The broadband networks exceed half a billion. There are, of course, some investments we do not want. We do not want investments with low social recompense. We do not want investment that sucks national or natural wealth and does not ensure respect for social rights in local communities and social infrastructures. And we all know what these investments are, who brought them to the country along with the repression and criminalisation of the social struggles, as happened in the case of the Skouries. I conclude with the social pillar - it is important - because ironic comments on social mobilisation have also been heard, on today's strike mobilisations, with demands that labour be strengthened, that wages increase and that labour rights be strengthened. It's not us. Some others, as I recall, were introducing the disgusting underpaid wage to young people. Some others, if I remember correctly, had abolished collective labour contracts and on one night, by decision of the Ministerial Council, had reduced the minimum wage. At the beginning of 2019, the Government is expected to bring the minimum wage increase. 2019 will be the year of more powerful collective labour agreements. The decline in unemployment is a fact. Young people will be multidimensionally supported at both tax and insurance level.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u138	Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u139	I shall conclude, Mr President. No one claims everything is pomegranate. It's still a long way. However, in the battle of the daily life of the world of work, SYRIZA is next door. And judicial injustices and the defence of the weakest give the present day. On the road to claims, from support for the victims of Manolad to the courtrooms, until the judiciary for the justice of the victims of racism, to the battle for the release of this awkward cleaner - this was done today in Volos - the struggle for the exit of the contractors from the public sector, we were and will continue to be on the front line all these years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u141	Mr President, on personal occasions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u142	Tell me, Mr. Comrade, what you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u143	I would like the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u144	What's the staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u145	He referred to me personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u146	You made a comment on how SYRIZA treats the occupations. Interesting comment. Mrs Vayssade replied that you are not right, because this is a school decision. It's her point of view, too. What do you mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u147	He asked me personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u148	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u149	Dear Mrs Vaaki, so that we do not have any misunderstandings between us, the New Democracy and I personally are extremely against fascism in the schools and we have great grief when we hear students take up against parliamentary democracy and, of course, as to what was heard about incidents in tomorrow's rally. Even worse! What's our argument, though? You as fascism mean only anyone who disagrees with you. When other disciples said it was junk the memorials and the junta, and Samaras smacked the officials, then not only did you support them, Mrs Vakis, but you may have been personally present in the incidents, like many other SYRIZA MPs certainly were. So our great disagreement is that we, from a position of principle, condemn such behaviour. But I'm telling you, I don't give up all these kids on Golden Dawn, just like you're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u150	Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u151	Many children may also be sensitive to the issue of Macedonia, and we must explain to them that they are not defending their homeland when they are in favour of democracy. They defend the country when they protect democracy. That's our big difference.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u152	I'll answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u153	Mrs. Vaki, can such a dialogue continue? Tell me honestly where it's going to lead.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u154	But I have to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u155	You say something, Mr. Georgiadis will answer again. Take the floor for a minute, but please, it doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u156	All I would like to say is that in the time of the disguised theory of both ends, we should be very careful and not give a fig sheet to the far right and the invading orders of the Golden Dawn. Because it is a fig sheet when we have heard - I am not talking about you personally - that the uterus of violence is the extra-parliamentary Left, but about the Golden Dawn. Sheet of figuratives is when your executives have told you at times that you should, if you take the government, institutional or other interventions never allow the Left to rule anymore. Sheet of figs and for the dead of the Polytechnic, which you have also felt in the historical memory of this country. Sheet of figuratives is when at the condolences for Macedonian I did not hear a word about the desecration of the Holocaust, about the arsonisms and slogans that were heard, such as “In the weapons, in the weapons, to take Skopje” and “Mahari in the heart of every ANAV”. Let's be careful. We live in very dangerous times. Don't let the snake egg break.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u157	Mr. Davakis has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister said in his speech "In the present political period, i.e. the period after the end of the memorials", that is, he compared the neoliberal logic of the New Democracy with the philosophical approach of his Government. We believe that none of these two is true. First of all, the period that we are experiencing is not, in fact, memorialism, as this has nothing to do with what the Greek people are experiencing from now on. Nor is this a conflict between a neoliberal with a philosophical approach. In fact, on the one hand, there is the New Democracy approach that it considered and considers as an ideology, as a political philosophy, that the aim of public policy is to create conditions in which the economy can prosper and produce wealth for our citizens, households, our people and, on the other hand, it is your idea that the state's mission is to run out of the supply of benefits, particularly close to holidays and to lift over-taxation measures when it has imposed these measures. I would particularly like to refer to the amendments tabled by the Minister concerning firefighters. I come from a region where the Fire Corps has grieved dead - I believe the same applies to all colleagues in the regions of the Greek region - and has a special relationship with the Fire Corps. I wish to express my regret - not now in the current Minister, but many years or long ago - for the management of the firefighting force and the solutions given by the political leaderships to the firefighting body, these emblematic solutions, which do not solve problems, while I would say that the problems of the Firefighting Body are exacerbating. The Fire Corps is a high-stage and battle-stage body against the fire latitude, but also, more generally, with floods and issues such as the ones in Mandra and many others. I say this because the amendments that we have tabled, which we did not disagree, have the character - what we used to say - of the emblematic form. What do I mean by that? The questions which nonetheless arise are: What about the renewal of the known list of about five hundred people involved? I would like, if the Minister were rough, to have an answer. This list has become a legend, and it must finally be answered. What about the thousand two hundred and fifty conventional firefighters? Is there any new amendment that will bring a solution to this issue? Three years, four or so, the SYRIZA government has not taken one of the participants. Also, as you have said, Minister, you need to see the five-year question about the full-time they request. I am sure there will be some answers. In any case, there must be a comprehensive, clear and concrete draft law, which will regulate the issues of the Fire Corps - like other issues, of the other combat bodies, of the Security Bodies - because all of this compose a climate of fragmentary management, which seems to be tragic when the fire explodes, when there is the flood, when there are the lousy tires of fire-fighting vehicles, for which you know that fire-fighting fire-fighters are returning to private businessmen and all this, which compose an ageing of the fleet of fire-fighting vehicles. That's a little for the fire brigade. Thank you, Mr President, and I look forward to the reply of the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, Mr. Colleague. From the special speakers, who else wants the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u160	I would like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u161	Here, Mr Ballis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u162	Thank you very much, Mr President. It did not seem to me, of course, that the majority of the Members of the Com mittee on Representation have referred to the major amendments that have been tabled today, which show the different climate that is beginning to be created and, above all, the different course that the Government is now showing that it can follow after leaving the memorandum. However, I was surprised that the criticism of the amendments was not so content, but other matters. The government has criticised the fact that it is bringing unreasonable amendments to the bill we were discussing today, but the government has also been criticised because the Minister, Mr Tsakalotos, has gone out and presented these amendments before the Members were placed, when it was a constant request in this Chamber that amendments be presented if possible as soon as possible, so that speakers should be aware of them. Of course, I understand that some of the Vice-Presidents would like these amendments, such amendments, to come up in the dark at midnight, so that they can pass if possible with lights off so that society does not get rid of them. But others were used to this practice, to bring amendments at midnight, holidays and holidays, which were quite rightly described and called 'introductions'. The criticism was also heard to the government that it brought amendments and did not have the opinion of the bodies on their contents. But we have heard society and society's desire in tabling these amendments now, which we have the opportunity and we can do so. In fact, we have heard the criticism in terms of Officerial Response that the amendments in fact relate to measures which are intended to take back some of the burdens that we have brought, with measures that we have introduced when they were unjustified until we become power. In other words, we are told that until 2014 there was no need for measures from 2015 onwards, with the SYRIZA Government, this need was presented. But, if that were the case, the e-mail Hardouvel in 2014 what was it, inviting tea? A binding view and proposal of the then government to take tough measures and a new memorandum was in fact. And of course, Mr Vorides also urged us to speak modestly and humilityly. So, modestly and humblely, we will say that now we can legislate differently and we are doing so. We have different laws. We are doing something not because we are obliged to do it, but because we want and we can do it with this particular content of the amendments. Four years we tried to stay the country upright, so society could have the small, even support it could have, to survive, the economy could not collapse. You want or not, ladies and gentlemen of counter-population, our policy has turned, the economy is changing, the country is changing. The unemployment you mentioned, from around 28% to 18.9% today, will be close to 18% next year. The credibility of the country, the credibility of the Greek economy inside and outside Greece is restored. And really, yeah, we've been doing four years. That's the kind of thing we're betting on. That's what we're projecting and going to show. For these things, we are sure that the citizens will trust us again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, George Carras, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u164	Mr President, I have to add. Thank you. I will just say that, because the amendments are being debated at the moment and in particular the amendments made by the Ministry of Finance, they are being presented as a success of the government, Mr President, the distribution of part of the surplus and questions are now being raised. How did this overcrowd come about? Did he win the Greek state a lottery? Did he win the lotto and can he today distribute or remove resources from both the economy and the households to create the surplus? I must remind you, Mr President, that there is a Memorandum of Understanding of 3.5% of the primary surplus, which will lead to a debt service. So what you are disseminating today - the Prime Minister came to Parliament and spoke and expressed it - has already been removed from both families and from the national economy to a multiple degree. So let us not celebrate successes. Let's be realistic. Let us tell the Greeks, our fellow citizens, that some of the people are being taken back. I would not like to go any further, Mr President, on this point, because the perception is - and the figures say that - 3.5% of primary surplus, which is about 7 billion on reduced GDP of 180 billion, about 0.48% of GDP over the primary surplus, we are giving it today. But why has it been removed? Would it have been multiplier, Mr President, in the economy? These measures are not developmental because they do not lead to productive investments. If, however, they had remained in household income, they would have been released into the economy, at the daily cost of each one, they would have yielded multiple benefits from income tax, VAT, etc. So the government and economic policy here are not a success, and that is what I wanted to note, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Mr. Carras. Mr Stavros Tassos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u166	Mr President, I have nothing to add.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u167	My colleague, Mr Psarian, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u168	Thank you very much, Mr President. Two - three comments as a small secondary one, I would like to say. To stop saying this fairy tale that we came out of the memoirs. The Memorandums came out of those who finance the country and cease to finance it. We continue to have to apply what we are told from outside. The charity we give is because we have evened her with something else that we have cut or with some other commands they gave and we begging them and begging and kneeling "Take that back to give something to our clients". They also agree, since we are doing a very convenient job for what is called for in politics. The Prime Minister told us very strongly: 'You say to us why we do not abolish HISPIA when we make this reduction? See who brought HISPIA." That's not what we asked. He could have been brought by Mussolini, by Juda, by Artaxerxes. We don't care now who brought HICPIA. We care who said he'd erase him and never erase him. That is what we told the Prime Minister and the government. The left government of Panos Kammenos came to power, eradicating HISFIA and abolishing it, because it is an unfair tax, which is not corrected, is simply abolished and abolished. That's what we said! We said it didn't break down, as it promised. We didn't ask him who brought him. He could have been brought by Velegas. That's not what we care about. I would also like to make two comments on the rhetoric and demagogy of fascism, fascism or fascism of both ends or five ends and six seas. Fascism is the enforcement of the opinion of the strong man in the space he can exercise, at any school, university, hospital, in any area, in a courtyard, in a café. Fascism is his boot screaming, the one that breaks, burns and takes over. We've all been through these phases and fascism is just this phase, no matter where it comes from. Here we have to agree that determination is when we cannot make this debate here at the amphitheatre of PAPEE or the Democritus or the University of Crete or the former ASAOE, the Economic University of Athens. There we cannot have this debate, because there is a kind of applied fascism, manifested by conquests, with dances. In Philosophy, let's say, they've occupied the Philosophy office, and it's their office, so the public can find them, the Ruviks and have rebetitious feasts. It can be in another university institution, another fascist group, party with the ape dance and have the same right to party as a dancer, such as these fascising progressive citizens, if they are citizens, and if they are students, because they are not students. It doesn't matter what the demands of the occupation are. It can be fair or unfair. It is important that democracy should be determined when it is imposed in these ways. And since we have all been through this - and not only left-wing - and we have all been through the amphitheatres and universities and high school schools - some of us have been through the sixteen high school schools, we have not seen a high school - we have to know and remember that fascism is to impose on the other your opinion, not to let him speak, to smuggle the officials and to applaud you by the progressive partners, while if she goes now and smacks Mrs Gerovasili, we will fall to eat him. And rightfully we're all going to eat him! But friends and comrades, ex-my and Mrs Gerovasili, when they moaned at the officials and the President of the Republic earlier - five years ago, some fascists - we made the duck and the "Chinese", if we did not encourage and support these practices, which brought us up to power and now do not let us deposit a crown at the Polytechnic. Not me, who was at both Law and the Polytechnic, Flevaris and March and '73 in Law and November '73 at the Polytechnic University, I can't testify to wreath, but neither can the two Nikois who passed through me before me, Manius and Srmalene, who were with me there and couldn't deposit wreath. Ministers, government MPs, couldn't deposit a wreath at the Polytechnic we fought for! Okay? And that's what we've thrown up. You keep nursing it and keeping its rearing alive. You're still investing in her. I hope that at some point we will stop this and decide that there are ways to fight. But to close, fifteen people on the road or to make occupations where we like about the right - for us a request - is not a democratic way. If we do, we'll do it both for the fascists and the neonazis and the chrysayites and the alien psychopaths. That's the way these things are, or we're all gonna do it or nobody. We'll respect the laws of democracy, or let's break it down.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u169	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, fifty students and students and three educational attendants from the 4th High School of Egypt. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Papachristopoulos, would you like to take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u170	No, Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u171	Mr. Saridis, would you like to take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u172	No, Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u173	Madam Minister, you have the floor to close the sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be very brief. Today we have a debate on an important, in my view, bill from the Ministry of Civil Protection, in which the country is shielded, or rather on another instrument for its armoring the issues of terrorism and major crime, and in particular the international activity of large-scale and organised crime, for which a very important debate was held in committees and bodies. In fact, there has been a substantial dialogue and I stress this, because it is not very often done in the Greek Parliament. Here I would like to say that admittedly there has been a very serious dialogue, perhaps exemplary to parliamentaryism, without micro-political purposes and throughout the dialogue and with sincere interest from all sides to address the particularly important issues raised by this law, as well as the delicate point of the balance between security and democracy has been addressed with due seriousness. I have to say this and close without supplementing anything about the bill, given that many of the comments made by colleagues have been adopted and amended and I think we are all in agreement. But, Mr Davaki, I would like to reply to you about the firefighters that you are right, there is the question of extending the five-year time limit, which we estimated to be about 8.7 million euros. I think he treated it positively, too. So it is something that we will be going on in the next few days to join the five-year full-time task, so that we can strengthen human resources. One step is that. The two steps taken by the other amendments and everything that has so far been done as steps, of course, do not entirely address the problem and we know it. However, we consider that, within the framework of the financial possibilities, we are gradually moving forward in order to shield the Fire Corps. The Fire Corps doesn't have any people they need. We are gradually trying to restore this to human resources and infrastructure, which we are constantly doing. But, after the provocative position of the Golden Dawn, I asked the representatives of the democratic arch in the Greek Parliament to reject this effort, this intervention, which is still a dangerous intervention, given that he is preparing the effort to penetrate and alter love for the country that Greek students feel, to poison and convert it into another movement for selfish reasons of the Golden Dawn and ultimately to serve fascism, with Nazi elements, and of course Nazism. But here, although most people understood what I asked at the time, the specific questions raised by this position were two: whether anyone agrees with the supposedly patriotic call of the Golden Dawn in schools for mobilisations, whether these are occupations or any other mobilisation, which does not matter the way, it is the message, but also the most serious one expressed here, that democracy sold Macedonia. Those were the questions. Most of them understood and answered. The New Democracy did not understand, by magic. I really didn't expect that because I think it was easy. In spite of the fact that Mr Voridis and Mr Adoni Georgiadis have been heard here, with indignation, with the appropriate drama of the facts and the desperation caused by the amendments tabled today by the government - which were enriched, of course, by numerical acrobatics, i.e. lies - none of this has been answered at that time against that given. I think everyone's intelligent. And Mr. Georgiadis is intelligent, and Mr. Voridis, who totally avoided it. Mr Georgiadis, however, preferred to turn the conversation, in other words, we should, on others, respond if some forms of mobilisation are useful, such as occupations. This is another debate, for which the Left has an opinion tabled and well-known over time, as for the movement, as well as for ways of demanding and how they may escalate, etc. Our question, however, was not that. Our question was the two previous questions I mentioned a moment ago. So the conversion of the debate, because I think Mr Adoni is also intelligent, I think that it is being made consciously, in order to avoid condemning fascism. The New Democracy must see this because I do not appreciate that the Members of the New Democracy are all expressed in this perception. However, as expressed here and by the spokesman who spoke from the Communist Party and from PASOK and from DMAR and from Potami, everyone understood and answered. It is a special sliding of what happened today and revealed a few more things. I'll say something else, though. Mr. Fisherman, we don't see what the golden people do and do the same. That's a dangerous equation. It's like the woman that's causing us to justify the rapist. I think you didn't want to say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u175	Your example is unfortunate. It has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u176	Golden Dawn doesn't see what we do, doesn't see us, so she does the same. Is Golden Dawn doing the same? Do you have this assessment, or is that an alibi for the action of the fascists? I don't think so. I don't think you wanted to say that. However, because it was heard, I note that. I think we should be much more careful about all this, because the snake egg has been incubated. This is what we all have to deal with together, and I think that in this way some people don't want to get together, some do what they don't understand. Those who pretend they don't understand, are really close to each other, because they understand and flirt. With regard to the criticism of the amendments tabled this morning, I do not want to respond to all one - one, but I would like to say that this is an opposition that is absolutely predictable, totally inappropriate, when it comes into pastology and when it is permeated with catastrophe and risky, and all this becomes a novel. All right, I don't think any of this and any other equations that are being made in here are surprised that anyone who is favoured by the positive measures that are coming, because he's done with the memorandum, is a government client, I think it needs to be further interpreted than those who formulate it. You know, the PASOK, the New Democracy, they put the country in the memoirs. SYRIZA - ANEL government has taken the country out of the memorials. This is the only truth that proves in all the objective ways. As for the subjective, I'm over it. This is the only truth and it is not possible to distort it as much as we change the numbers, as much as we lie, as much from the past if we remember and as much as we destroy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u177	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u178	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u179	Mr. Fisherman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u180	Thank you very much, Mr President. I do not want to conflict with the Minister, nor by definition, and in principle we disagree with the functioning of democracy and I did not make any connection. I said that if my friends understand the high school of Cholargos for their fair demands, the same is true for friends of "Original" to understand the high school or high school of Nea Philadelphia with the request that Constantinople be Greek, because since AEK is of Constantinople, they have every right to cry and understand the high school of Nea Philadelphia, raising two-headed eagles and screaming that "Istanbul is Greek". Is it a harm, psychosis, nationalistic hysteria? Whatever it is, I don't compare. It is not the demand, the way is the functioning of democracy. The request may be fair, may be unfair, may be explained or unexplained. Maybe it's worth it and it's not worth it. The way I said, undermines democracy, and if we left-wings make occupations for our fair demands, so can neonazis and stinky fascists, too, for their unjust, souls. That's what I said. I don't compare anything. And one last. Since the country has come out of the memorials, we can abolish HISPIA. In the amendment you have given us to say and vote on all the wings that HNVIA is being abolished, because the country has come out of the memorials and the SYRIZA - ANEL government will conduct an independent national policy. It's over and over! It's very simple. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u181	Thank you. Madam Minister, you have omitted something, I think, and you want to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u182	I have not said that the amendments are accepted. I haven't said the typical place. That's what I wanted to fill in. The amendments tabled are accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u183	Good. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u184	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u185	Mr. Tassos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u186	We have tabled an amendment to that effect to abolish the ENPI. So I imagine you're voting for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u187	Of course, if it is submitted, if the Minister accepts it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u188	The Minister will tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u189	After we got out of the memorials, we should abolish him.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u190	We said that...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u191	Do I have to answer that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u192	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u193	Look, let's not do what we don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u194	Well, that's exactly what we're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u195	The country stands on its feet again and the Greek Government begins to be able to make its own choices. However, these must go hand in hand with the Fund and within the framework of our possibilities, as we have repeatedly said, with the budgetary margins that are constantly created, we are expanding these policies. That is what the government could do today and does without second thought, this proposal tabled today by the Minister of Finance to the Greek Parliament. Therefore, the fact that we got out of the memorandum does not mean that the funds were filled, as you can see. Is that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u196	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u197	Because in the country, which was bankrupt by PASOK, by the New Democracy, etc. and we have received it minus, for the first time today we are in a position to give positive measures in favour of the people who have been diagnosed over all these years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u198	And dismantle HISBIA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u199	Thank you, Minister. The debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Civil Protection: ‘Airports obligations relating to passenger records - adaptation of legislation to Directive (EU) 2016/681 and other provisions’ is hereby concluded. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, eighteen articles, seven amendments, the farewell article and the whole bill. Each time on the screen up to four articles to be voted on are shown. To vote and the rest you have to "rol" the touch screen. At the top right of the touch screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. Make sure that you have voted for all the articles, amendments, the hotel article and the whole. After registering your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. For any question, please address the Bureau so that the officials concerned can assist you. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u200	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u201	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u202	Consequently, the draft Law of the Ministry of Civil Protection: ‘Airports Obligations on Passenger Records — Adaptation of Legislation to Directive (EU) 2016/681 and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of articles and all and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u203	I would ask the House to empower the Bureau for its ratification of the Minutes in its entirety.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u204	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Transparency, Justice and Human Rights forwarded to Parliament, on 15 June 2018, a criminal case for the Member and Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, Nikolaos Pappas. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-28-S1-commons.u205	(b) legislative work, only discussion and vote on the draft laws of the Ministry of Finance: (a) ‘Resolution of the State's Report, financial year 2016’, (b) ‘Statement of the State's Balance Sheet, financial year 2016’.
