ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-16-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour of announcing to the House the news sheet on Monday 19 March 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1314/13-2018 topical question by MP Laconia of New Democracy Mr Athanasios Davakis to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Suspension of operation of the Transport Supply Training Centre as a Neoslett Training Centre". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No. 1269/6-3-2018 of the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The choice of Mr. Tsakalotou's political existence as a judge of his budget." 3. The question by number 1297-12-2018 of the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Papapas to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Approximately EUR 23,170,067 as compensation for the Bank of Greece S.A.". 4. The question raised by Mr Christos Katsotis, Member of Parliament, with number 1309/13-3-2018, by Mr. Christos Katsotis, Member of Parliament, on the subject: "To be paid to the former employees of ATE everything that is due to them". 5. The question by No. 1310/13-2018 of the Greek Parliamentary Islamist, Mr. Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Who is the exact balance of the bank account of Law No.128/1975?". 6. The question by number 1270/7-3-2018 of the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament and MP of the Athens I of Potamio Mr. Spyridonos Lykoudis to the Minister of Tourism, on the subject: "The Ministry of Tourism is effectively catalysing the EOT". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under number 1315/13-2018, a timely question by MP Fthiotidas of the New Democracy, Christos Stakouras, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: ‘Enlargement and completion of the process of repayment of public debts to private individuals’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: “Dangerous developments regarding the sale of the EUPM “The National”. 3. PASOK - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "What is the fate of the reserves of PATTH S.A.? EUR 65,108,327,16 after the transfer of the majority of the shares to private individuals.’; 4. The question asked by MP Drama of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Has Kefalidou to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject: “Kidal Nikiforos Dramas and their staff: Lie”. 5. The question by No. 1303/13-3-2018 of the Member of Parliament for the Flemish Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Talk for thousands of patients the placing of medicines from the pharmacy of the EEA". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Drama of the New Democracy Mr Dimitrios Kyriazidis to the Minister of Health, dated 3195/5-2-2018, on "Following the General Hospital of Drama with anesthetics and health centers of the Law with medical staff". We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS Today we will discuss two topical questions. We will begin with the second question by No 1268/6-3-2018, the first question by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Migration Policy, on the subject: "Episodes and conflicts in the port of Patras between migrants and Greek authorities". The Minister for Migration Policy will answer Mr. Dimitrios Vitsas. On this occasion, we wish him every success in his new duties and he has all our support. Mr. Papatheodorou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-16-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I wish you good strength after taking up your duties. I shall refer to an issue which concerns the region of Patras and the wider Achaias. I think you know that for two and a half years in the area outside the harbor zone at two abandoned factories, AVEX and LITOPOULOS, an informal camp of anti-immigrant immigrants, gathered at this point, has been created so that they can illegally cross the ships of the connection between Patras and Italy and flee abroad. Minister, I think it is a common place that the presence of these immigrants in this region has also brought many groups of organized Mafia crime, who are also controlling the illegal transit to Italy. I've asked too many questions to the Ministry of Migration Policy, to your predecessor, Mr. Muzala. In the latter she replied that because this is not a hosting centre, she doesn't have competence. Recently, when the so-called development conference was held in Achaea, we noted that government actors had taken care to hide immigrants and then again, again, they began to create incidents. Let me tell you that over the last two and a half years there have been over a hundred incidents of conflict, between immigrants and ports in the zone outside, whether migrants and citizens, or migrants and police officers in the zone, which is outside the port. The residents are worried. We now see that there are also people's initiatives which meet to take measures to protect their property, to protect even their lives and to protect them. The question therefore is whether there is any planning by the Ministry for the immediate evacuation of this specific informal camp, a camp that is an outbreak of crime, but on the other hand I must tell you - for those who have visited this camp - that the situation, the living conditions of immigrants, in addition to the problems of exploitation, crime, are inhumane and this has been denounced by international organisations and doctors, but also by social bodies in Patras. So the question is one: Minister, what do you intend to do so that we do not reach out of the few dozen that were in several hundred years ago? The estimates today say that they are over five hundred people who live in these atypical camps with a view to some of them passing to Italy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-16-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much Mr. Papatheodorou. Here, Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-16-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to say to you, Mr Papatheodorou, that you were rightly answered by Mr Mouszalas in the previous question, but the question is more that we are answering questions of this kind as a government. And I want to start with the second part of the question, as it was in the text. They are approximately five hundred people in the port of Patras, including asylum seekers, who are still pending the administrative procedure, persons whose application for asylum has been rejected to a second degree and hold an official note from the Police Authority attesting the impossibility of deportation. There are a hundred and fifty of them left in the former ‘CARDCYCLES’. They are people from Afghanistan, Pakistan, Syria and Iran primarily, that is, they are immigrants, because the word "persons" is a rather bitter word. In the former "AVEX" there are about three hundred and fifty people and there are ten in the antiques in the old factory of "PIRAIKIS PATRAIKIS". A few days ago - in relation to what you mentioned - a fourth site was also used, for which you need to know that from the 13th of the month has been sealed and no longer used. I am saying this in order to understand that we have an accurate picture of the situation and, in cooperation with the Ministry of Civil Protection and the Ministry of Commercial Shipping and more specifically with the Greek Police, the Port Authority and the Port Authority of Patras, we know the problem and we do not ignore it. Let us not forget that two and a half years ago, we had a situation in the same region with an informal structure of around two thousand people. This means, of course, that it is not enough to recognise the problem, but we also need to resolve it. And we solve it in two directions. One direction concerns the safety of the people of the region - because we are particularly interested - and the tranquilization throughout the region and, of course, in the port. The second is that we are concerned about the situation of immigrants themselves. Let me tell you this. A typical hosting structure is not to be built here, in the sense of camp in the area of Achaea. It is a different thing to houses, houses, apartments and a different thing to create something that typically refers to secondary flows that we do not want and it is certain that we will avoid. More specifically. For the police of the area, a special operational plan has been drawn up by the Greek Police. Continuing police checks are anticipated, avoiding fence overcoming and, of course, avoiding incidents, but avoiding people running the national road at risk for their lives. In particular, we point out that one of these buildings has stagnation problems, to know why we are talking. In this sense it is necessary to remove them. We do not want at this stage to go violently. There are ways and forms. After all, many of these people have positions - and for those who have no positions, there are positions - in hosting structures of mainland Greece. I'm saying that because some people already have positions. In other words, they are known and are either in Scaramaga or in other areas. We can solve this. We're making more checks. I can give you some additional information. Our aim is - by safeguarding these people, in the sense of not finding themselves at risk, but not creating risks for both the Greek authorities and the residents of the region - to transfer everyone to hosting structures throughout the rest of Greece. In my dentistry, I'll give you more information. However, there is a complete plan and there is already what I said to you that on 13 March the one is closed, so it will continue and soon this whole process will be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-16-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Minister. Mr Papatheodorou has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-16-S1-commons.u6	Minister, it is neither appropriate nor useful to disagree whether or not there is competence. Since there is an informal camp, an informal camp, I believe there is a responsibility of the Ministry of Migration Policy. Let's go to what you said. I have the intention of the Ministry to be progressive - because I have not heard of the immediate - relocation to the structures of migrants living in the two factories, because that is where the largest number is. I am also positive that there will be no organised camp in the Achaea region, because it has not even been discussed yet. But what I must tell you is that, on one hand, Minister, there must be control. You said there was three years ago - there were five or six years ago - another camp which ended up with arson and violent transport of migrants outside Achaea. What we are seeking to avoid is the few dozen who have come two and a half years ago and have become five hundred or six hundred today, not to be a thousand or two thousand, which is a completely visible prospect. On the other hand, where the informal camp is located does not only create problems for the inhabitants of the region, in Itaes, in the southern part of Patras. We are being watched, and that is why I say that they are very concerned, because in some areas they cannot be released at night at ease, because there are clashes, conflicts, petty crimes. Above all, however, the continuation of this informal camp is, if you like, a link between a problem of immigration policy and a problem of organised crime. Because you know that in order for an anti-immigrant to come to the port, he will have to pay a few thousand euros to go on the other side, to Italy, it is also known that there are groups that exploit immigrants, and these groups are often either their counterparts or foreigners of different origin. So what I say is that we must not, Minister, leave the problem to these two abandoned factories any more. I'm also saying there's no design. That's what I'm questioning. Here certainly needs a cooperation with your colleague, Mr Toska, so that we have a removal in ways that are not violent - it does not need to be suppressed - but also to a very large extent the influx of new irregular immigrants, whose number in recent years I have to tell you has increased. So, because it is a social problem, because it is a problem of immigration policy and because it is a problem that is very much management of the police at local level, I say that the timetable should be short, and also, structures, existing structures to which these people will be transferred as quickly as possible to the mainland. In any other case, what we are observing is to increase the insecurity and along with the insecurity to increase both the episodes, but also a feeling of xenophobic, which is now particularly found in the popular layers of the region, why? Because they cannot understand that a problem that they have seen happen a few years ago does not see the state today so that it can even face it now, after two and a half years in its origin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-16-S1-commons.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Papatheodorou. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-16-S1-commons.u8	Well, your main question, Mr Papatheodorou is: Is there a design or not there? I answer clearly and unequivocally that there is such a design. What does this design include on loop lines? The removal of asylum seekers and immigrants from the abandoned industrial sites of Ladopoulou, AVEX and PIRAIKIS PATRAIKIS, because they are next to the port and these people on their despair, use them at risk many times during their action of injury, their lives, etc. So, one part is that. In this direction of removal, we will use all the soft means, of the possibilities that we have and have proved to us both in Idomen and in Patras and in Piraeus, as well as the exploitation of associations - bodies that have immigration organisations here in the country, so that these people can be persuaded. That's our basic concept. Until this happens, we won't leave them in a sense in their luck. You know that at Ladopoulou's gone and cleaned, there's help given by the Municipality of Patras to feeding, etc. All this is well known. From there they will be relocated to suitable infrastructure areas. The places are ready and will be hosting places, no booking places. And that's clear, because you know it's not just the Patrians who listen to us. You know that part of my origin is from Patras because of a mother. She's been born there, that is, my mother, and she's lived many years. I know the area very well. Besides, Patras is a beloved city for everyone and we've all gone and we've walked all over it. So that's the process. It is important to be persuaded to comply with the legitimate Greek procedures. It is clear that whoever is in Greece is under Greek laws and the protection of European legislation. This must be done to everyone clean. Another issue that you raise is the issue of crime, which is not about immigrants, but about those who use immigrants. This is another issue that we should see. So we'll do it with the hope that everything will happen without repression, but I'm convinced. He sent me a letter from the mayor of Patras, who I think is in a good direction. So we can work together so that there can also be peace in the region, that peace returns to the souls of these people and find the services they deserve as human entities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-16-S1-commons.u9	Thank you very much to the Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the third, with number 1282/9-3-2018, a top-level question for the first-round J' Vice-President of Parliament and Members of Parliament II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister for Shipping and Island Policy, on the introduction of a thousand tourist boats prepared by the Turks in the Aegean Sea in summer, will not be discussed due to the absence of the Minister responsible Mr. Panagiotis Kourublis abroad. Also, the fifth under number 1266/6-3-2018, a top-level question by the MP of Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaos Igoumenidis to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject of "Financing water networks in Heraklion" will not be discussed due to a blockade by the Member of Parliament in question. Also, the sixth question under number 1230/5-3-2018 of the first cycle of the Athens MP of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject of "The need to regulate housing loans in a Swiss franc" will not be discussed as a result of the intervention of the honourable Member in question. Let us now move on to the debate of the first under number 1313/13-2018, a topical question from the Member of the Republic of Attica, Mr Georgios Vlachos, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The right to subject the arbitrary buildings to indivisible property". Here you go, Mr Vlavo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-16-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, with this question today, I would like to raise a serious issue which exists and which, unfortunately, was not solved by No 4495/2017. These buildings are located on indivisible plots, lands. You know that under previous law, Law No.4315/2014, an effort has been made in Article 34 so that those that were built on fields over four acres can be settled on the basis of the provisions of Law 4178/2013. Unfortunately, you, with Law 4495/2017, have abolished some of the regulations, including Article 34, and so the matter remains open again. Instead of expanding it for fields under four acres, which would be reasonable, we abolished and what was in place. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I must also tell you that this arrangement, even if it was for the top of four acres, gave a solution to over 80% - not to say 90% - of cases. Now we are in a phase where no one knows what's going on. Can someone settle their building if they're on an indivisible plot? That's the first. Secondly, are those who got caught and joined Law 4178/2013 today 'in the air'? Can they continue to regulate as foreseen by the law? I'll tell you one last thing. I also asked you, when voting on the law, not to solve the property with this regulation that you are bringing, but to recognise the owners as alleged owners. You're doing this anyway to Law 4495/2017 in Article 99. You are talking about 'possible owners', but provided that you recognise the self-tradition of the parties concerned and after they have given themselves the fines, they can go to normalisation. That is what I would say it needs to be corrected. We need to recognize as believable owners who have a problem. And I'd say it doesn't scare you. We don't solve property issues here. The alleged owners are getting in as far as normalization is concerned, but the property remains open. We don't take care of it with that law. I wonder why you insist - if you insist and hope you do not insist today - on this ban. There's a huge problem. From the buildings they estimate that over 35% are built on indivisible plots. You know, there are the great popular houses you're talking about. They are the people who didn't have to go to buy a whole plot, selfless plot and went to an indivisible building. Are you going to give them a solution? Will the hostage continue? Do we have something to tell them? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-16-S1-commons.u11	Thank you very much, Mr Vlacho. Minister, you have the floor to give your answer to the prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-16-S1-commons.u12	The New Democracy has had an easy time voting laws that are not compatible with the Constitution and the country's regulatory framework. What did he do in this particular matter? He voted for the 2013 arbitrary law, L.4315, which identifys and settles arbitrary, without any reference to the ownership issue. He went to S.T.E. The law was judged to be constitutional. And at the end of 2014, you had some stress at the end of 2014, probably because there were elections - it brings an amendment to the House or then government. This is the provision which it invokes, and this provision states that 'in cases of immovable property, more than 4,000 square metres, the combined percentage of ownership' - I have, not all -'may be subject to the provisions on arbitrary property without the consent of the other joint owners'. Do we have a constitution in the country where, in paragraph 1 of his article, he speaks of ownership? We can disagree theoretically, ideologically, politically. There is a statute authority. Secondly, property issues are regulated by the Civil Code and other law, which I ignore. There can be no law on town planning - spatial planning to intervene in the matters of property. It's irregular, it's non-legislative. He's going to go down to S.T.E. That is why the present government when it created the arbitrary law did not make any reference to this matter, for the simple reason that the S.H.E. It would cancel the whole of the law. So our legislation is clear. He needs the consent of the joint-owners. I understand that we live in a country where there are several domestic fights, usually brothers, cousins, dad, mom, who are the joint owners. The legislator cannot intervene through town planning, for the law would fall. What do we do with them now? Those who have taken your amendment - which, I repeat, does not stand in any legal system - and have enabled it, if they are trying to integrate, as is the right of all the others who were in the old law - because our economic incentives are on income criteria, social grounds, we make it easier for the poorest strata to settle their arbitrary with less fines - if, then, some were in waiting and entering our own law, those who invoke this amendment are rejected. It's over. Those who have identified with your amendment are 'in the air', not to the public, are 'in the air' to their joint owners. In other words, if a joint owner, for someone who has acted on this amendment, has appealed to the court and said 'yes, that amendment gave them this right, but I disagree', I do not know what the court will judge. So our position is clear. We protect the law. We are protecting the Constitution and the laws of this country. We are not resolving property issues by means of urban legislation. It's clear. We protect the new regulation in the new law on arbitrariness. We are very sorry, but as I said in Heraklion, the law gives very strong incentives for families to regain them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-16-S1-commons.u13	It has social implications, Mr. Vlavo. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-16-S1-commons.u14	It's not a family matter, Minister. And of course, we wish that all the co-owners could agree and settle it. That's why no one has anything to say. Because this is difficult, because this is impossible, so the current situation continues, so the problem continues. That is why I am putting this matter before you today. And, of course, such a procedure must also tell you that it will be quite time-consuming. So if this were to start today, it would obviously not use the really beneficial provisions of Law 4495/2017 for fine reductions, because this will take a year and two years. But I come to the point. You're telling me again about the property. I never raised a property issue. Of course, the problem, which you said, with a co-owner, could happen at any time. We do not guarantee him by this law, we simply give him the opportunity to go and settle. And don't think that someone's going to take care of a building that's in danger of losing from the joint-owners. In addition, I told you that Article 99(a) of Law 4495/2017 introduced the logic of the "portant owner" in the name of - beware - of the contractor or contractor or any arbitrary owner who has been charged with building fines. In other words, if its town planning has charged a fine either to build or to maintain it, it can be incorporated into the law as an alleged owner. And I say: why not do the simple thing, be regarded as "providing owners" and all those who have evidence, namely PPC accounts, accounts...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-16-S1-commons.u15	With a PPC account? The rights will be violated.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-16-S1-commons.u16	Wait a minute. They're not intruding. They're alleged owners, Minister. We don't decide on the property, why do you insist? That's not what we're deciding about. He's a alleged owner! So it produces PPC's accounts, produces water bills, produces payments made to IKA. So this man proves something. And you tell him: "I recognize you as the alleged owner of what you're presenting to me, I can't solve your property. Solve it at any time with the others.’ That's not what you're interfering with. Why is it unconstitutional? We can't solve the property. It enables him to make use of the law, to settle the building. And don't doubt it, logic says that a man who has no evidence will not go to settle any building that can at any time be lost by any joint-owner. It must also have firm elements to make this initiative. At the end of the day, he'll start paying money, and he'll start paying for payments. You imagine anyone's going to pay money for a building that doesn't belong to him? So it's elementary. It doesn't make sense. How do you want to agree? And you're coming back and telling me we're not going to solve things privately. But I didn't ask you to solve this. You can't solve them anyway. Give him the opportunity, as this law would have given him. And you made a mistake saying it had to do with elections. We fought a lot for that law and gave them the opportunity. And, you know, too many people joined then and I'm glad you're saying today that you don't get it back. Those who joined Law 4178/2013 who proceeded with the arrangements, even though this article of the following law was abolished, they will continue to pay as alleged owners. I mean, that's what you're saying. You've got the rest of them in a hostage. Well, that's not the case, Minister! Anyway, it takes a knife to cut a knot. The problems must be solved and not taken further. You want to keep the problem? Keep it. You will have political responsibility. I put it to you as thoroughly and as convincingly as I could. And indeed, whatever initiative you take we are willing to support it, as long as it is in the right direction, to give a solution to this simple world that could not have a plot, if you want, in its name a tiles at its disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-16-S1-commons.u17	Thank you very much, Mr Vlacho. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-16-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. On the fact that the New Democracy passed an illegal law or not, send him to the Council of State, send him for advice. In 99% of all the law in the country the answer will be short.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-16-S1-commons.u19	Is that the law down?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-16-S1-commons.u20	An article that says that someone can, without the consent of the other co-owners, do something...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-16-S1-commons.u21	Improve him.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-16-S1-commons.u22	There's no improvement. You have done these for various reasons, voters or others. That's not what we're concerned with. Well, it's over. There is a real problem that you have raised. What's the problem? I have made an arbitrage against the state, a double one in this respect: I have built an arbitrary building, and I have made arbitrary with my co-owners, because I have not asked them when I built the arbitrary one. The second is that we cannot resolve this. It's unsolved. Our legal system is not allowed. The first is, however, there. Because I give you the right to extend the arbitrary function for thirty years, but I've also put a fine on tax. In other words, there are arbitrary owners who have tax fines, high fines, and if they cannot benefit from the law, there is a problem. For he who owns the arbitrary will appeal to the law. It has a fine - I say symbolically - 100 euros in tax revenue because of the arbitrary nature. He will join the law, pay 20 euros and delete the debt. But he, who has not arranged property, cannot do that. That's a real problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-16-S1-commons.u23	You don't open the door, so open the window. That's what you're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-16-S1-commons.u24	Wait a minute. So since we cannot solve one because, I repeat, the Constitution of this country, etc. - what I read to you, your order, is entirely unconstitutional - we need to see how we regulate this issue. In other words, for fines imposed on arbitrary infringements which have the potential to be incorporated into the law, if they resolve any of these issues, we can see how some arrangements can be made to enable potential beneficiaries to leave this constant threat. But that is a question that we will resolve with the Ministry of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-16-S1-commons.u25	Thank you very much to the Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and toured in the exhibition of the courtroom "ELLEROS VENIZELOS", twenty-nine students and students and two teachers attending from the 65th General School of Athens. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We continue with the announcement of a number of questions that will not be discussed. The question and application under number 1139/92/13-11-2017 by MP II of the PASOK Democratic Assent - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister for Migration Policy, on the subject of "unjustifiable delay in the drafting and publication of the quarterly Reports of the Appeals Authority against the decisions of the Assylum Office", will not be discussed. The seventh question under number 1080/13-2-2018, first question by the Member of Parliament, Achaias, New Democracy, Andreas Katsaniotis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: “Havaluation and effects on coastal areas of Achaia”, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Socrates Famelou, on the grounds of: workload. The fourth question under number 1261/6-3-2018, the first question of the Member of Parliament, Evros, New Democracy, Anastasios Publics, to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "The Viability of the Factory of the Greek Sugar Industry of Orestia" will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development, Alexandros Haritsis, with the cause: unsuccessful obligations. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-16-S1-commons.u26	With the agreement of the House at 10.44 p.m., the sitting for the next Monday, March 19, 2018, at 17.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: (a) legislative work, according to the special agenda distributed and (b) parliamentary scrutiny, is being discussed with topical and urgent questions.
