ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to the Parliament's 30-5-2018 delegation, the minutes of the PKZ meeting, Wednesday 30 May 2018, with regard to the vote on all draft laws:]] 1) 'Following the Agreement between the Education, Scientific and Cultural Organisation of the United Nations (UNESCO) and the Government of the Hellenic Republic on the establishment of the Centre for Integrated and Interdisciplinary Management of Water Resources at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, as Category 2 Centre under the auspices of UNESCO'. 2) "Preparation of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the World Health Organisation, acting through its Regional Office for Europe, amending the Reception Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the World Health Organisation, acting through its Regional Office for Europe, establishing the Support Office for the Prevention and Control of Untransmitted Diseases in Athens, Greece and other provisions". Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent question in the House on Friday 1 June 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under No 1704/25-2018, a topical question by MP II Athens, New Democracy, Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the subject: "Talk and charge for consumers since the delay in the reimbursement of sums paid to ELTAs for the payment of PPC's accounts". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: “Compensatory benefits from the use of the waters of the river Eueus and the river Mornos”. 3. The 1697/24-2018 topical question by MP MEP I of the Central Association Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "About the legality of the Skouria mine." 4. The 1701-25-2018 topical question by Z' Vice-President of the Parliament and MP of the Athens I of Potamios Mr Spyridonos Lykoudis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Organization of speed races in the NATURA area". 5. The question by No 1717/29-5-2018 of the current question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARK KEgeroglou Vassiliou to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "To put a brake on the uncontrolled rise in fuel prices that is burdening the economy." B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1705-25-2018 topical question by MP Drama of New Democracy Mr Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the solution to the association of the TEI with the Central Macedonia TEI and the International University of Thessaloniki. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 1611/7-5-2018 by MP Corinth of New Democracy Mr Christou Dimas to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: ‘Absorbance of EDF resources 2014-2020’. 3. The Question No 1674/21-5-2018 by MP Lassithi of the New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Plakkatakis to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy on the subject: "E. on the supply of new ferry ships from the Hellenic Coast Guard to strengthen surveillance of maritime borders, effective investigation and rescue and the fight against crime at sea." 4. The 1589/3-5-2018 topical question by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Economy and Development, on "Control placement of greenhouses and processing plant for the processing and production of finished medicinal cannabis products". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Question No 1983/11-12-2017 by Mr Dimitrios Kyriazidis, Member of the European Parliament, to the Minister for Migration Policy, on the subject: "With what process did the "KOSMOS" be given to care for refugees from the hosting centre in BIPE Dramas take place?" 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 4297/12-2018 by MP II of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Economy and Development about the intentions of the United States Government. to impose import duties and the effects of the measure on Greek exports. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We begin with the first question with reference to the circle of petitions and questions by MP Rodopi of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Ilhan Ahmet to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'Aid for tobacco growers in Thrace'. The question will be answered by the State Secretary for Rural Development and Food, Mr. Vassilis Kokkalis. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes to develop the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in the Rhodope Prefecture about six thousand eight hundred families live exclusively from the cultivation of tobacco because that is, as you know, a monoculture. If it is not the case that tobacco is grown mostly in horrific and dry soils, it will not be a matter of simply extinction of a crop, but of an entire social group, with all the consequences this might bring to the social equilibrium and well-being of my region. At the same time, tobacco, Minister, is an export product contributing to the extroversion of the Greek economy. Especially bass, cultivated in Thrace, is a variety used in cigarette raisins by the largest companies worldwide. The development of mountainous and disadvantaged rural areas is, in fact, a process of regional development. I will develop the contents of the question in my dentistry. We need to talk about a holistic approach to rural development for the concept of processing, improving quality of life and all of this. Unfortunately, Article 38 on direct aid, Minister, from the list of products eligible for aid, has ruled out tobacco indiscriminate and despite the opposition of the plenary of the European Parliament. Given that tobacco is a product protected by the Treaty of European Union in Annex 1, its arbitrary exclusion from an agricultural policy measure creates reasonable concerns about similar exemptions of product and growers and other policies in the future. In his reply to the question put by Mr Milto Kirco, Commissioner Hogan points out, Minister - and this is important now - that Member States can decide to grant additional aid to farmers whose holdings are in areas with natural handicaps as defined in Chapter 4. Furthermore, Regulation No 1305/2013 on rural development also allows Member States to grant aid to areas facing natural or other specific handicaps. Mr. Apostolos, the Minister, during his recent visit to the Kavala Tobacco Museum, pledged that your objective is in the new CFP to bring back the issue of support for tobacco. After all this, I ask again, Minister, what will you do with the support of tobacco growers in Thrace? What's your vision? What are you thinking so much about the second pillar, but much more about the first pillar, as mentioned in Mr Hogan's answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Papoutsis, indeed tobacco is one of the most important crops, and much more so for the Thrace region. Through the Rural Development Programme, which promotes competitiveness and productivity in the agri-food system, I will mention three measures, very important measures, including tobacco. The Rural Development Programme includes increasing tobacco-related investment both at primary and secondary level, I repeat tobacco-growing and tobacco. Firstly, it is measure 4.1, entitled ‘Investing in agricultural holdings’. Under this sub-measure, which has already been announced, support is given to holdings, including tobacco-producing ones, aimed at quality agricultural products, in order to facilitate their adaptation to market needs and to enhance their competitiveness. The second measure is the 4.2 investment in the processing, marketing and development of agricultural products. Within the framework of this sub-measure, which has already been called for investments of more than EUR 600,000, including the tobacco sector for the production of cigarillos or cigarillo, support is given, among other things, to micro and small enterprises with a view to increasing the added value of their products, making them attractive to consumers and strengthening export orientation. Appropriate investments of less than EUR 600,000 will be launched in the next period through the LEADER programmes. In addition, both tobacco growing and tobacco growers can benefit from measure 13 of the Rural Development Programme "Aid to areas characterised by natural or other specific handicaps" as it is eligible for this measure - and it is very important - all the parcels in which agricultural land is carried out in mountain or disadvantaged areas, while the beneficiaries are natural and legal persons who are active farmers who carry out the agricultural activity within these areas. Therefore, measure 13 ‘aid to areas characterised by natural or other specific handicaps’ also covers tobacco growers. I'll tell the rest of it in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Ahmet, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u6	Minister, you referred first of all to the second pillar and specifically to some actions. But look at what's going on. Measure 4.2.2, to which you referred, first of all, concerns private investment for more than EUR 600,000 on a private initiative. So, these poor people on Thrace, where will they find, Mr. Undersecretary, EUR 600,000 to invest to make cigars and cigarettes? That's what tobacco growers I think sounds funny, not to say ridiculous. The programme may include actions from rural development and amounts of less than EUR 600,000, but they cannot be acted on either. You referred to pillar B, under Rule 48 of the Rules of Procedure, where your Government's compensatory allowances spread them throughout Greece. But do you know that upstairs, people, especially in livestock farming, who took the full balancing now came down to 50%? We do not think that everyone who is entitled to a EUR 90 area-by-per-per-per-per-per-per-per-per-per-per-per-per-per-per-per-per-per-per-per-per-per-per-per-view is not taken into account, but in fact it has been reduced to farmers. For these tobacco growers now, Mr Minister, it is EUR 42. The basic aid at the moment is down to 1 euro for tobacco growers. You know, after a year, the basic aid ends. And when the basic aid ends, how will the Greek tobacco industry be able to stand? How do thousands of people work only at commercial price? He'll be at the mercy of the dealers. We ask you this. From pillar A, Mr. Kokkalis says in his reply, it may exceptionally be possible in mountain and disadvantaged regions only, to create a development policy and even to grant direct aid. In the new CAP, do you intend to include this proposal as Greece in the file? Will you give the battle for direct aid along with other allies especially for the mountains and disadvantaged areas of our region? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u7	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u8	Of course we will give the battle, Your Honor. That's for sure. We support tobacco growing as the Ministry of Rural Development to the maximum extent. I should like to mention Rule 48 of the Rules of Procedure on direct payments. Greece has provided for the granting of aid for areas with natural constraints. It's measure 13, which I mentioned. The aid is granted to all agricultural parcels in mountain or disadvantaged areas, regardless of cultivation, while the natural and legal persons who are active farmers are beneficiaries. Accordingly, tobacco growing and tobacco growers, if they fulfil the above conditions, shall receive that aid. In addition to this aid, however, everyone receives the basic support for the entire area they cultivate and declare. Also, new entrants or young farmers decide to enter tobacco growing - and this is very important - are entitled to request rights from the national reserve and if they fulfil the conditions for accession to receive direct payments. The tobacco growers know that we are next door in all their problems. Recently, in a well-known "standard" that has fallen into the area, which has left many unpaid tobacco producers, the Ministry of Rural Development is fighting, along with the Interprofessional Tobacco to pay these people. The measures which I mentioned are the support of the Greek state and the Ministry of Rural Development in tobacco farming.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Minister. We continue with the third question with No 5196/17-4-2018 question of the circle of petitions and questions by MP Elias of Democratic Association Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport on the subject "It was left and March 12th, the last deadline set by Mr. Spirtzis for the start of the proceedings of the Patras - Tower". The State Secretary for Infrastructure and Transport will answer Mr Nikolaos Mavraganis. Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, I do not want to underestimate the role of Mr Mavragans at all, as a member of the government, nor as a person nor a institution. I would like to inform you, however, that my conclusion is that Mr Spirtz is hiding because this timely question was scheduled for Thursday. Mr Spirtz invoked a workload, but we have all seen here - because we had a vote on it - that he was really involved in the corridors of this House. Evidently, Mr. Spirtzis, who has been arrested on several occasions as he has not complied with any of the timelines he has given, wanted to avoid his presence in the House and the answer. And this timely question arose, as my written question, which told Mr Spirtzi that on 2-8-2018 here in Parliament, he pledged that, after 12 March, the proceedings for the start of the long road Patras - Tower, three years after the cancellation of the competition and its fragmentation, would begin. The deadline has, of course, passed, without any action being taken by the Ministry. We received a written reply from the services in the meantime, in the intervening of the cancellation of the time-limit and today's debate, following the full timetable for the exchange of correspondence between the Ministry and the European Commission, and in the end tells us that a detailed examination of the reasons for the tenders submitted by the respondents to four contractors is under way. Mr. Mavraanis will tell us if he knows. Obviously, he means ‘TOXOTIS S.A.’. However, what Mr Spirtz said here would have sent after 12 March the dossiers with the signed pre-contractual control contracts, obviously not. If there is anything interesting, let Mr Mavraganis tell us, we will hear it and come back to my denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you for the question. The agony of each Member for his region and for such a great work, which is a requirement of Greek society and local society for many decades, is clearly justified. Because, in your question, you raise the key issue of funding, because without money, nothing can be done, and you remind me that such funding was not available for the 350 million project, when on your own days you tried to go ahead with this project without money, but, with a contraction of all seventy-five kilometres with a seventh degree, I would like to inform you both of the whole House, but also of the people of Elijah and Achaea that on 174-2018 the European Commission's final decision was adopted, which approves the EUR 344.776.874 budget for this project. So it's a covert financial project now. Indeed, we have made a political decision. And we didn't just take her for Patras and the Tower and the specific work. We got her in total. Because we all know, and most of all, the European Court of Auditors knows exactly what was happening between public administration, civil authority, not all of them, I have to say it - and some contractors. And it came out with a European Court of Auditors about four months ago and said that in 2013 the material was abbreviated and yet the remuneration was not shortened, but increased by 1,200,000 euros. Moreover, the Greek Competition Commission in 2016 made a pioneering decision and said that it found that from the 1990s until today there was a price agreement between a hundred companies, including, of course, the companies with very large stock of power. As you can see, we were obliged to make a decision on all of this and to take part in it and the large - we will not exclude them - but the smaller ones who had an sixth degree. This is why the Patras to Tower project was partitioned. I think that doesn't bother anyone. From there on, the services must check - and you rightly point it out - on the basis of Article 88 of Law 4412/2016 - our own legislation - the extreme low bids, if any. So when they see an offer, which is about 55% discount, they have to control it. At this stage we are. In the summer or the end of the summer, because as far as I can see from the service document, the deadlines given and the extensions of the guarantee letters have reached a very high point by September 2018, I think that this whole check will be closed. To interfere with the services, Mr Papoutsis, and to say 'close control negatively or positively' is a pointless, immoral and illegal one. I think we should let the services check all offers and files in detail.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. I have the impression that Mr Mavraganis did not understand what I asked or deliberately "flooded the ball on the platform". Mr Mavragani, on these issues you have referred to, we have had endless discussions with Mr Spirtzi here. Each time we reiterated the same, and we insisted that, if you had not canceled the tender, you could have declared the procedure unscrupulous if there were no discounts, i.e. if the national contractors, with whom you are now smiling, did not enter with satisfactory prices, had you repeated it, had you not split the project, had we won three years. And you tell us the same thing. I refer to the repeated statements made by Mr Spirtzi, who disproves himself every time, who sets a timetable. And now I understand why he's hiding. Instead of coming here and apologise for having arrived at a dead end, you and you repeat the known stories. So I say to you the simple things from the Minutes of the House on 8-2-2018: "Right after the services will be called upon to invite the contractors, to bring the guarantee, to go to the Court of Auditors, and then the dates are the law. If a company cannot bring the guarantees, you will go to the second, if the second cannot, you will go to the third and so on." So I ask - and that was my question - why has the process of signing the conventions not proceeded so that they could go to the pre-contractual check. What you don't tell us, we're told by journalists who make the Ministry's report. In other words, we are told that Mr. Kalogritsas, following the audit carried out by the Bank of Greece at the Bank of Attica, cannot claim "male" guarantee that he is down to other projects, that you are looking for salvation to the original contractors, those who spent them. And in any case, do a sincere briefing of the House, ask for an apology, call on the Committee on Production and Trade and bring in another proposal to do the work. The road you have chosen is a deadlock and it is seen from the three-year delay and from the fact that your services, as the document says, two years after the auctions Mr Kalogris has reduced at 60% - 55% -57% and so on - they cannot control the dossiers. Are these serious things now? I will end with this: neither are you from virginity - you are in the Ministry along with Mr Spirtzis for several years now - nor Mr Spirtzis, who has served as Chairman of the Technical Chamber and who has been partitioning in order to get the best known contractors. We've been through this before. I didn't come back for that. I came back for this, where we are today. So I note from your answer that the project is at a great dead end. The project had entered the PPP in 2014 with 450 million, because the discounts had not been calculated - you have now written it with 350 million because you have calculated the discounts from your own documents - and it could have been fine to proceed with the procedure, because, I repeat, you have had the right to declare the prizes atrocious or to do other actions. However, you chose the partition. You did what you did, you justify - unjustified - but in any case, you give an honest answer, at least: will the project begin? And I don't mean for you to start, Mr. Mavragani, from Ahaya to Shanghai, find a third of the eight contractors and do what the project started. I mean that the project is the Patras tower and it means that the eight contractors must be completed, on the basis of the timetable laid down in the original law and which is now long overdue. That is the question, then. To her answer, if you can, and now let them know about the joke "and you torment the blacks."
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u16	I don't know if you understood, Your Honor. In 2014, in fact, you wrote this project, together with thousands of others, in the Public Investment Program and you were roaming papers in your regions and you had done overbooking 250%. You hadn't found any money. Now there is a decision by the European Commission on the money. Let the people of Elijah and the people of Achaia hear it. Secondly, I said before - I do not know if you are not prepared to comment on it - that your testimonies have been found by the European Court of Auditors, with a reduction in the physical scope of the projects. In other words, you have reduced by 50% the work done by contractors, the work that society would benefit, but you did not reduce their wages. You left them in double, and you gave them 1,200,000 more. And Greece has been controlled since 2013 for your practices. I also said that, then, the Committee on Competition in Greece in 2016 found that, for then and up to the 1990s, there was agreement between a hundred companies, including the big companies, with which you imply that we, too, are in agreement. That's what we have to break. What other way, you know, is there any way to break this if you don't increase competition? And competition increases when you give others the opportunity to enter the game, to participate in a tender and to be transparently involved in it, for the benefit of the Greek people and the Greek budget. You realize you can't come and say I'm giving someone a job that's given a bigger offer than the one he's given. Then you'll be unbelievable. Then you're going to be smashed into public money. It's not our money, it's none of yours. It's the Greek people. So when the other one gives a reduced offer and is the shareholder, you have to respect it. From there on, however, I told you in my prototype, we must, as the services do, control them - and you are quite right about that - all of us. You are focused on ‘TOXOTIS S.A.’. It is not only the ‘TOXOTIS S.A.’ that it controls. It also controls "XYTHAKIS", "INFRASTRUTTURE", "PAIOANOU" again "INFRASTRUTTURE". They're eight contractors and they control all eight. In four of them, you are right, it is the 'TOXOTIS'. In the other four, however, it is not the ‘TOXOTIS’. However, they are once again checking and asking for explanations of deductions and they are required to do so by Article 88 of Law 4412/2016. We, who want, quickly, deliberately to create an area in which there are privileges for some, are the ones that break and create greater competition. We're the ones who control those who give big discounts. We are the ones who want to make transparency on the one hand and, on the other, to do the works on the other. That's why we find the money. That is why I told you that on 17-4-2018 the European Commission approved a allocation of EUR 344 million, which was never there until today.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Minister. Here is the second question by number 3810/27-2-2018 of the circle of petitions and questions by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARKKKKOS KEgeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "To conduct the tender in question immediately and to proceed with the construction of the St.Pellagia node". Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the fact is that in the three and a half years that you are a government you have launched too many works, but which have been launched, financed, auctioned and implemented largely by previous governments. Even at the cut of the ribbon, you're doing well. But don't tell us here things that are beyond logic. You carried out this work, which you previously discussed, not to compete, but to get all eight contractors, if possible - the four you managed - the best man. If you wanted competition, you would say that for the eight sub-projects of Patras - Tower you cannot participate in more than one. That would be a rule, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u19	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u20	But what do you think, sir? That the minister's best man is random? But in itself the minister's best man has been incompatible. And it turned out to be a mistake to your policy, because you went to put medium-sized contractors to implement the projects and they have been stuck for four years. So it turned out it was wrong, completely wrong. And the approval you are saying is not additional funding, it is the same funding that existed for this project and simply for that project. You're doing the same on the North Road. Not a project is currently running or a sub-project or part of a project on the North Road on your own initiative, preparation and funding. On the contrary, you suspended all the works. You suspended the Panormos - Exante project, delaying the Agia Pelagia node traits, while you know very well that it is necessary and was integrated from 2014-2015 and should have completed this whole process. You've been committed too many times. At first you told us in 2016, then you told us at the beginning of 2017, then you told us in autumn 2017. Now, last time, you have told us that it will be auctioned in the first half of 2018. And the question is this: are the services finally ready to auction the project and on what specific date? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u21	Mr Nikolaos Mavraganis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u22	Mr Kegeroglu, because you have made a general reference and found that there may have been incomplete support from your colleague, I believe that there has been no incomplete support from your colleague in the previous time question, but it simply does not help him. So let me make a general reference too. You know, Mr. Kegeroglu, the flat-rate works notices without accurate measurements? Have you ever heard of them? So to explain to the people what that means. It means that for the notices you have made on the projects that you say we have cut ribbons and have stopped for three years and we have been in danger of returning to the European Union of 8 billion - so we have cut the ribbons - we have managed not to pay 8 billion. We completed the projects and succeeded in reducing the requirements of the contractors that you had left inconsistent. There, then, in these works you had done something very nice. What was the nice thing you did? You have described the projects in the flat-rate declarations, i.e. in working groups, without measurements. So the one who wanted to participate could not participate and did not know exactly what measures he had to prepare for the project. Who could participate? The one who had helped to draw up the studies on precursors. Who were those in the Patra - Tower project? They were certain companies. I imagine you and Mr. Koutsukos don't talk about them. So I say, Mr Kegeroglu, that this has stopped, that the measurements are specific, that now every contractor who wants to participate there - who is both the sixth and seventh grades, so more and who can give greater discounts - than first and foremost what work he will do, what exactly is there to measure. The flat-rates are over. And we're going to the BOAK. Are you talking about BOAK? Fifty years, fifty miles, a mile a year you did! Great performance! But we're going to this. Achilada node - Agia Pelagia Heraklion. The problem of road safety is indeed seen. When we amended the legislation on the OAS, the Agency for Reconstruction of Crete, I remember that you and the New Democracy were looking at us, because we are removing responsibilities from the OAS and thus, you said, we are weakening the construction site in Crete. Except in the specific work you and others say, the OPC could not complete technical studies. So what did we do for this reason, why did we really want to do the work? First of all, we asked the OAS for information. Oak told us on 15-1-2018 that he's done some things. And did we find out what, Mr. Kegeroglu? We found that he had not even gathered the property declarations on expropriations. He had not made a land register, that is, who will be the owners of the area, and what land will be expropriated, he had not even done a study of wastewaters, he had not even done an environmental impact study at the level of a final study. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] So what did we do? We have taken this responsibility by amending Law 4412/2016 on us - by intervening competence - not exclusively. We gave it to the Directorate for Road Safety and Conservation, and we set it on 15-14-2018 technical consultant. We approved its funding with EUR 144,000 to assist the services, because the Directorate has done some of the work. We gave the authority to our department to complete the work. On 23-05-2018, a technical consultant was appointed to finalise the service assistance, i.e. to finalise these studies. The final timetable is 18 June for the notice - the tender has been postponed - with the expropriations within, with the land register of expropriations in all means. The amount of funding is covered, which is now EUR 5 million. Unhappily, the Ok said he could do it with 2 million euros, because he hadn't even calculated the expropriations. I would like to remind you of something, Mr Kegeroglu, about the many projects you are professing to have entered into budgets, not only you, but also New Democracy. I'll say it all. I remember from Evia the work of bypassing the Vassilikos who signed it in the PPC and had not anticipated expropriations. When you did not want to do the work, write the works and omit the expropriations. And the contractor went to settle and had no land lane to do the work. These, Mr. Kegeroglu, are over. The play will be done. The auction will take place in June 2018, as we have announced, that is, in the first half of 2018.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u23	The rest in your dentistry, Minister. Thank you. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, can you tell us what your Ministry's actions are against national contractors, which you spoke about before, and whom you complained that more money was paid? Can you tell us an energy? And tell us what work you did not then give them from that cause? Many theories and narrations can be developed. But here, it's real. I told you, tell me a project that you have auctioned, financed, planned from the beginning. And now we're talking about BOAK. In three and a half years you suspended all the works, sub-projects, sections that were auctioned and transferred to the ultimate future, after a study that will take place, where the tolls will go, etc. If it's like Egnatia, eight, you made it thirty-eight, we're saved! But you have referred to the previous fifty years. Well, if we put in integration since 1912-1913, we did a hundred yards. That is why, in the forty-five years, half of you have to apologize - your party, I do not know about you personally - from New Democracy, which has been ruling since 1974. I don't understand! Where was Minister Kammenos? The PASOK governments? Really? Are you from virginity? And Mr. Spirtz should apologize himself. So you come now with zero task to blame the previous ones, who have, of course, done little in relation to what is necessary. But you're zero. And can I tell you something? You're accusing the OAS. OADYK, OANAK and OASK have important work in Crete. It's a state organization, it's your ministry. You blame him for doing nothing and it's your ministry's! Of course, Mr Spirtzi's opposition is well known because he did not appoint the administration, Mr Stathakis appointed it, and the opposition is well known. It is the game of non-assistance of the OAS by your Ministry, in particular the previous period, to implement the projects. You got these responsibilities up. OK could've taken the technician with your support. But you did so on purpose only to create a new service for the road system of Crete, which is controlled by the Minister personally and exclusively, in order to make his personal choices. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Look, the government's weaknesses will not be transferred to either the OAS or the citizens. If, therefore, you considered the administration of the OAS inadequate, you had to suspend it for three years, you had to change it in two years. Didn't you do it in two years? In the last few days with the findings you have made. Can they be appointed by you, blame them, and then come and say it's not our fault, is it the ones we appointed? Are these serious things, Minister? Anyway. After that, can you tell me when the work will be auctioned? Because the expropriations you've told us are fumara. In statements by the people who have granted their property, the project will be auctioned, not by consequent expropriations. There's no obstacle from there. The obstacle is you who wanted to deceive the OPC and set up a new agency that comes under the Minister to make the Crete road system, of course, because the budget is huge. This may be justified by the fact that it is in the Ministry and the Minister, but in this case it is a small project. It should have been a long time ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Minister, before I give you the floor, I would like to make a statement to this House. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, thirty-six students and students and two educational attendants from the 9th Elliotre Municipal School of Ilioupoli. The House welcomes you guys. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u26	Mr Papoutsis, I think I am speaking well Greek and my word is clear. So to stay in the matter, I said before the end of June 2018, that is the month in which we enter tomorrow, there will be the tender documents and the work will be auctioned. Secondly, the timetable beyond the tender is as follows: the law says in thirty-five days that tenders will be submitted, then the Office will check and object. We believe that by autumn, we will have a final contractor. I can't prejudge if there's gonna be a judicial involvement. I am a lawyer and I am very well aware that if there is a judicial involvement, I cannot currently commit the Greek Parliament to an answer. But I'm telling you the exact timeframe. From that point on, you have referred to what we have done for big-workers, national contractors, etc. But I told you from the start that we changed all the legislation. We've enabled more people to enter. Could we rule someone out? You said, he says, rule out one and tell him that only one of them can come in. Do you consider the Competition Committee of the European Union? Do you have regard to the European Union Directive 1508/2012 on free competition and transparency? Do you bear in mind that under Article 5 of the Constitution you cannot rule out economic freedom to participate in a competition? But from there on, Mr. Kegeroglu, what do you control? His financial surface, his technical capacity and ability to give these discounts. And that's what we do. I don't know if I'm understood. I'll say it again. For the benefit of the Greek people, we will safeguard public money. And the projects will do, as we do, and the public money will preserve and we will not reduce the natural object by 50%, as you did in 2013, by increasing their wages to double and giving up 1 billion more. That's over. As you also finished the flat-rate auctions, which you said about that is the size of the physical object. The other did not have precise measurements in his hands so that he could participate in a competitive process. And who participated, Mr. Kegeroglu? The person who helped the technical services in the precursors, who had done the studies, participated. Do you know what this is called, Mr. Kegeroglu? Steady game. That's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Minister. Minister, Mr. Metarakis has not yet come whose question is following. He's obviously blocked by the troubles of the day. Can you wait?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u28	I would be happy to wait, Mr President. You'll let me know when Mr. Metarakis comes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u29	Thank you very much, Minister. So the second question under number 1703/25-2018 is the first time before the Greek Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Member of Parliament, Mr Savvas Anastasiades, on the subject: "Reopening and reconstructing the Council by Presidential Hellenism". Will Deputy Foreign Minister Terrence Kuyk answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u30	Mr President, before we start the procedure, I would ask you to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u31	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u32	There is a question, Mr President. It should be made and the acoustics improved in this Chamber. I can assure you that everyone sitting here in the cabinet hears with resonance what is going on in the Chamber. We can't hear it. The voice comes to us for the second time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u33	Minister, you're right. You can see the Bureau how it finds it difficult for it to do so, because the Bureau is not listening. You're right about what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u34	I raise this issue so that I do not eat our speaking time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u35	You're right, Minister. We shall therefore proceed to the question procedure. Mr Anastasiades has the floor for his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, let's go to the pre-historics. In 1995, as you know, the Greek State's presidential decree was founded, in order to provide an advisory and suggestional instrument for the homeland in the matters of homosexuality. This was with the consent of the whole political world and it was a constant request from the Greeks, who took flesh and bone. It is very important, for me at least, that as a permanent seat of the family, of the Greek Democratic Republic, Thessaloniki was then designated. The initial aim of the Board, the legislature, was to address the issues of the Greek diaspora and better communication with the homeland and the ultimate aim of Hellenism gaining even greater power. His mission was to express all the powers of the parable Greeks. In 2006, an effort was made to reconstitute and reconstruct the Council from the Greek Democratic Republic, i.e. the bill, to gain new momentum. The opinion, rapporteur, claiming and supporting role towards the country was then secured and four new regions were added, which I should not mention. After two extensions, because the regular meeting was not held in the light of the re-adjustment of the law in December 2012, the Board ceased to operate. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Then, in December 2012, as State Secretary for Foreign Affairs, Mr. Tsiara took an initiative to reconstitute, to draw up a new draft law for the organization of the Council of De-Democrat Hellenism. There was a great debate, consultation, opinions and proposals which, for example, contained a hundred and thirty-seven comments from a total of seven bodies and twenty-eight persons. In December 2013, I took over as Chairman of the Special Permanent Committee to complete the bill. Our proposal was sent to all regions and in November 2014 was submitted to the relevant Ministry, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Of course, it was never possible to have a debate because the elections were provoked. This bill, as we had prepared and completed, we had delivered it to the first Deputy Minister of the new government, Mr Amanatidis. Since then, the draft law and the CSCE have been pending, and the demand of all the homosexuals is a constant one, which you know very well. So you ask, Mr Minister, where are we, what steps are and when the bill will be completed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President, first of all, for the timely question. Secondly, I would like to assure you that in the new bill, which is being drafted, Thessaloniki will remain the seat of the Greek Eviction Council - this will not change with anything - with all the technical infrastructure that it must have for its various general assemblies. The third is that the EAW - because I read what you submitted in 2014, which you gave for consultation, you gave it to the parties and started by Mr Chiara - has indeed moved in the right direction. In other words, he brought the Council from the Republic of Greece where it should be. I mention: to be self-organised, self-managed and self-financed. And that's where we agreed, if I'm not mistaken, because I heard you and I really agreed with you when this matter was raised in the committee responsible. From there on, we make some necessary technical improvements, because, Mr Papoutsis, they know better than we do how the Council has to operate than the Greek Presidency, but it really works and representatively, as you mentioned in your bill. Representatively for all the Greeks of the family, including the natural persons, who are a key point, because the CSCE, as you know, was working on the substance, representing 4% of the family, leaving behind and a lot of displeasure and a lot of bitterness. Because, where I am talking about a CSCE, other than those who wanted to get a "carte visite" to say that they are in the CSCE presidencies, the others were hearing it rather repellently. They did not want it, because the CSCE as their name was malicious in their ears - and I refer to the visits I have made throughout the world - we think - and that is a proposal that we could talk about - to make it a World Council of Hellenism. We just need to change the name when there's a constitutional change. But that's the lasson. Let's go to the big one. The major thing is that the Council should be reconstituted, yes, but it should be reconstituted on the basis of what the Constitution demands, namely that it be a pool of thought, that it be an advisory body, so that issues relating to the family can be dealt with in order to process them and give us their own advice and opinions. From there on, I would like to tell you that the Greek Council is not just so that we can communicate with them, with a central body. Because, you know, it is also funny to want to promote, from Greece, even issues relating to our national issues, or even issues of everyday life, and to run to the United States, from state to state or run from continent to continent, instead of having a central Council of the Hellenic Republic, to give them the matter, to process it with each other and to send it back to us again. Also, Mr Papoutsis, it is very important, because we have considerable tripartite cooperation, such as with the Israelis or the Egyptians, that these people know where they are going to go. Why, the AJC tells you, do the Israelites, the instrument that is in the United States, say to you, "Who are we going to talk to?" And we don't have who to talk to. So, that is what you put it as a matter and thank you for bringing it, because we consider it very important, yes, we are working on it and yes, we will make provision for the new formation of the Deviated Hellenism Council to be submitted as quickly as possible, which, I repeat, will be self-organised, self-managed and self-financed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u40	Minister, it is a fact that it is well known that the CSCE has not been able to represent all the relatives, nor has it played the essential role it had to play, as it emerged from its founding act. The plan that we have worked out and submitted and completed was based on three axes, those that you said: self-organisation, self-financing and universal representation. We're three years more than that. You've received it almost complete. We have no information about what is going on, who you are consulting. We have no plans to say our proposals. After all, our proposal is submitted and integrated, but it can also be improved. We don't say that's a good thing. What we're talking about. We don't have anything handcuffed. Apart from that, we have statements by members of the government. We have Mr. Amanatidis' statement in December 2015, which said that the bill would have been passed in 2016. We have the statement of the Director of the General Secretariat of the Hellenic Republic Mr. Kokinou, who said on 6 April 2016 that the bill will be completed in 2016, that it will express all Greeks, etc. We also have the statement by Mr Kotzia in July 2016 that the General Secretariat is working on the bill and will come for a vote. We also have the statement by Mr Tambakis, the last president of the SAA in November 2016, who said that Mr Amanatidis, your predecessor, promised him that very soon, in 2017, the bill will be passed. And of course we have your own statements, one November 2016 in America - and that is where you put another dimension, the Church, and I agree with it - and August 2017, that the bill will be completed in 2017. I accept that your intentions are good. I accept that you would like to complete the bill. However, as far as we are concerned, we do not have any indication to date. Personally, three or four times I asked the chairman of the Committee on Disciplinary Hellenism to come to the board to discuss it, as I did when I was president and we discussed it with all the parties to table our proposals, but nothing came. There was no debate and he did not agree to come for a debate. All this makes me some suspicions. Does the government want to bring the bill to a vote or does it not want to? Does it work paradoxically or operate rationally and does it really want to vote on it? You can answer us, so that our compatriots can also know, but we're the ones who drive this thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u42	I would like to assure you, Mr Pérez González, that there is no paradoxical tactic. I can assure you that it is the government's will to make a sound and sound Council from the Greek Presidency, which will not eat, as in the past - and unfortunately I have to put this - a few tens of millions without knowing where they went and how they went. That is why I have carefully read the part you refer to in terms of its self-financing. If you want, I can only disagree with you that we suggest them how to fund themselves, which is what their sources will be. These are what we are trying to do through our bill to remove, precisely so that we are not intervening within the house of the homosexuals, and above all asking for their largest volume in the United States to do, when the bill is submitted, their actions as soon as possible, so that we can form the world council as well. There is, therefore, absolutely no feasibility in delay, Mr Papoutsis. From there on, for us the Council of De-Democrat Hellenism we want it to be a clean body, which - I will repeat what you have said and to which we are already in agreement with the committee where we were found - will unite Hellenism. Because so far, as you know, we have a Hellenism rather alienated and disfellowshipped between them. They may speak, for example, about Americans and Australians on a case-by-case basis for any national anniversary, but they do not have a better cohesion among themselves, even on everyday issues and problems. In this, of course, the CSR did not help when it was operating in the old years either. Because we must not doubt that it was a good idea for Andreas Papandreou to become the Council of Depopulated Hellenism, which has slowly disfellowshipped and which is why we have reached the necessity of 2012, 2013 and 2014 to be able to change its shape, and that is what we are doing now. One last thing that has to do with the second part of your question and I would like to answer is that I wish, Mr Papoutsis, honestly, that we had institutionalised the issue of our communication with democratic Hellenism, that there was a law that says that the Greek state is being imposed by the Minister responsible - today it is me, tomorrow it may be you - to go and see the Greeks. Because having forgotten Greeks, for example in Sub-Saharan Africa, and having countries where no Greek Minister of any ministry has ever gone or that the last minister who went to some of them was forty years ago, I think it is not the best thing for us. I wish, indeed, that we had such institutional safeguards, but I believe that now the necessities, communications and the speeds we have on travel can bring us closer to them. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] In order to close and not to exceed the time available to me, I can assure you, Mr Papoutsis, that there is no paradoxical tactic. It is willing to bring the Council of Depopulation and I am delighted that what I am saying is that, whenever I go to the Greeks, the House's Dissertation Committee is the only committee in Parliament where decisions are normally taken unanimously. We both had a debate today on the people who had to deal with the homogeneity of tons of political ethos. Because before I heard how the timely questions were tabled with high tones, fingers raised and shouted, as if they were fighting us. Thank you so much! This is the spirit that we must have against also the family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Minister. Subsequent to the first under number 1702/25-2018, a topical question for the second cycle of the New Democracy MP Mr. South Mitarakis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: ‘Project and financing of Chios airport projects’. The State Secretary for Infrastructure and Transport will answer Mr Nikolaos Mavraganis. Mr. Metarakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u44	First of all, Mr President, I would like to thank you and the Secretary-General for agreeing to keep the question. I apologise for my little delay this morning because of a television obligation. Minister, this is the third time we have been discussing the question of Chios airport during the last parliamentary term. It is a project that has been decades away and which has been delayed over time, so that Chios Airport currently has a short runway that does not allow it to be exploited by charter flights. And this creates a great problem in the necessary tourist development of the island. It is an island that, as you know, Minister, has been affected by the refugee crisis and the next month will also lose the privilege of insular VAT due to the Memorandum of Obligations. Minister, unfortunately I was in a meeting with your Ministry 15 days ago. And I say 'unfortunately' because, on the one hand, there was a good climate of cooperation between the region, the municipality and the Ministry, from now on, to begin an attempt to achieve the project, but on the other hand, it was evident that three and a half years went completely lost. The competent fund, YMETERA, had foreseen a allocation of EUR 15 million for the expansion of Chios airport and the reconstruction of the building. Unfortunately, it seems that this envelope is at risk of being lost. Also, there is no mature study, neither for extending the runway, nor for the main road project of relocation of the beach, nor is there any study of the reconstruction of the very small building of 1,200 sqm. which has the airport of Chios. I am asking you, therefore, with an agony, Minister: is there any chance in the next 12 months that we can see any work at Chios airport or fall into the next government and this work?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u46	You are right, Mr Papoutsis, that it is a project that has been over decades. If I am not mistaken, from the information I had, the last extension and improvement of the route was about the 1990s. Since then, as the tourist burden on beautiful Chios has gone up, there is a social and practical demand and the social and economic need for further expansion of the airport. The fact is that this project involves both the Greek Ministry of Infrastructure, the Department of Airports on the other hand and the third side, the Region of Northern Aegean and the municipality. Because there are roads that need to be transferred, there must be port projects to protect these roads, and it is not just the aerospace route. By increasing the length of the runway the surrounding area is obviously affected and roads must be shifted. This, then, creates a large number of problems, who will just make the study and to what extent it will reach. At some point there was the opinion of the Civil Aviation Service that it should mature the studies itself, which it did not do. It was previously the North Aegean Region's view that it should do the work itself. Also, there was no maturation. Also, the municipality has the best option to help in any direction. Eventually this was chosen, so that some time we could see this project done: On 12-3-2018 the Ministry of Aviation, the Department of Civil Aviation, transferred the file to the Ministry of Airport Infrastructure. We find that the premeditated study that the services of the Ministry of Infrastructure said they had matured was not mature enough and further work had to be done by the Ministry of Infrastructure. On 2-4-2018 the Ministry of Infrastructure Infrastructure Infrastructures Department makes a final effort and asks the Ministry of Infrastructure, since she claims to be able to mature the studies, to do so. But it is finally recorded in May - May 8 - 20 days later - that the NDP cannot complete these studies and that the Airport Infrastructures Directorate is no longer responsible for making the complete premeditation. On May 18, that is, ten days later, we end up in the best shape, signing a programme contract with all three parties, namely the Infrastructure with the Airport Infrastructure Directorate, with the Northern Aegean Region and the municipality, each to take on its own, so that there are no overlaps, the great cancer of the Greek public administration, and so move on. In particular, the Ministry undertakes the premeditated study to bring it to a final study level and to make the construction of the project, of course, with the relevant tender, the tender, in relation to the route and what exists within the airport. The periphery of making the transfer of the provincial road of Chios-Thymianes, this coastal road, to the side of the sea and the port projects to protect the road, because, once it moves towards the sea, there will definitely be waveforms and waves which will push this road. And the municipality make the connections to the municipal roads and get the traffic burdens that will be in case of being transferred to this road. On the other hand, the duration of the funding - because it is very important, Mr Papoutsis, for the financing of the project, because there is nothing to be done without money - for the specific investment axis, namely axis 7, for the investment of the airport infrastructure from the YMETER, is until 31-12-2023. However, the work, the physical and material object and the economic object of the project must be finished. So we don't have a problem with the budget itself. However, this does not mean that we need to delay further. The programme agreement finally sets out the framework on which these three co-legislative public bodies will be initiated.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Minister. Mr Metatakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u48	Thank you very much. Minister, we agree that we have been late for decades. In the period of the previous government, the necessary expropriations were completed and in December 2014 we handed over - with my responsibility - the report on the extension of the runway to the Civil Aviation Service, which in January 2015 was ready to declare the work of enclosure of the new site. This, unfortunately, has been delayed. But what is more alarming - and I thank you for the honesty of your speech - is that the Civil Aviation Service has not been able to study the extension of a landing route for four hundred metres - three years! - and as a result of this moment in time, the Memorandum of Cooperation you mentioned - which in itself is positive, I do not disagree - is essentially to formalise what we have already known. The region as early as 2017 and Mr. Haritsis had said that he would provide a funding to study the migration of the beach. We celebrated last year. The money hasn't arrived yet. This study has not been carried out. The municipality was known to do the work of using it and I already think that this project has been announced. The crucial thing is to separate the projects, Minister, and move on with the Ministry, the central government, either with the relevant management or with the PSC - this is an internal issue of the organization of the central government - on the one hand, the expansion of the corridor - the area exists, it is clear now, the expropriations have been completed - and, on the other, there is a small extension of the building to the existing building, as there is room for it to have two or three departure gates, and now it has only one. HOME sent a recent letter, in March 2018, to the Civil Aviation Service, saying that while there is the funds, there has been nothing substantial for the studies, and HOMEDA said, therefore, that there is a risk that these resources will be lost. I would like in your dentistry the confirmation that the line will remain specifically for Chios airport, for this project, although we are in the year 2018 and there is still no study. Because there is a risk that the Ministry of Economy will try to increase the absorption of the NRP - I will say that - to transfer this funds to a project that will be more mature and to finally have the study, not to have resources by 2023 and we must wait for the new NRP. Just to conclude by closing that it would be important on the one hand to tell us about the funds, on the other hand, since with this Memorandum of Cooperation the Ministry has undertaken some commitments, to give us a sense of timetable for your own studies: When do you think the study on the extension of the airport will be ready, when do you think the study on the renovation of the building will be ready and when will it be launched so that the contractor enters and starts the project? I don't want exactly dates, but a size class. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u49	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u50	Parliamentarians, as you say, that overlap between public services, whether they are under the same administrative structure or about the same or supervised bodies, as in this case between the Ministry of Transport and the Region of Airport Infrastructure, on the other hand they are the North Aegean Region, or the municipality, always lead to delays. Here in the particular work at least, the responsibility weighs on all sides for all the previous years, and I have the feeling that as long as he was staying without specifying which authority he has to do what, he could easily say that "I have done a piece of work, the other one has to do it" and he threw the ball to the other. I have actually seen - and I am speaking to you - correspondence between various departments, or different administrative structures, more than a hundred documents on this matter and I cannot understand, I am the minister who finally has the power to do so. It had absolutely to be clarified. The base is done. The programming contract is in the right direction. It clarifies who will do what. As far as the heading is concerned, I have asked the services to answer me and they said that it is funding from the FIFG 7 and the axis 7, the total of which is available until 31/12-2023, provided that the physical and material object of the projects has been completed by then. Because this is not much work, since we have a auction, I imagine that the natural object will be completed within 12 months. The finalisation of the study also requires a technical adviser to be found to assist in the maturation of the study. In some debates both with the region and with the municipality I have been given a good chance to help in that direction. We're open. What is in the direction that can facilitate the maturation of the dossier, i.e. the finalisation of the study which is currently at the level of the pre-study and must be done at the level of the final study - implementation, with pleasure of accepting all aid, so that the dossier can be matured and that we can be auctioned. I think that if a technical consultant finds himself to help us a little bit in the maturation of the final study, we will have a tender, because that is where the budget heading already exists on the axis 7 and there is a general commitment of the whole amount.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Minister. New Republic MP Kastoria Maria Antonio seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad, namely in Russia for personal reasons from 3 June to 6 June 2018. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u52	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Here is the fourth question (No 1713/29-5-2018) from the Member of the Greek Communist Party, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the need for the preservation and cleanliness of museums and archaeological sites. The timely question will be answered by the Minister, Mrs. Lydia Conniordos. Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the shortcomings in all the inventions of antiquities and museums throughout the country, both in staff and in material and money, have now become status. Subscribing and subscribing are particularly visible in the preservation of archaeological sites, both in the regional monuments that remain closed due to the lack of permanent maintenance personnel and incomplete maintenance of the sites, and in the museums, in the monuments that visit thousands throughout the country, such as Heraklion Museum, Knossos and other archaeological sites. On average during the summer season, the Heraklion Museum accepts a thousand five hundred people. This year, because of increased tourist traffic, it will be even more. The same is true of Knossos, since there is a single ticket. While all this is happening, the Government, the Ministry is prolonging the anxiety of the employees with the postponements of this infamous competition for the two permanent guarding staff positions throughout the country, one of the first SYRIZA commitments that are all announced and all the papers are finally left. If it is done, you will also give a impression that this is also a major achievement in the final analysis. And someone would say that once and for all would solve the acute storage problem, say 'all right', but it won't solve it. The anti-Serbian trade union itself speaks of over a thousand gaps at least. One example: The Archaeological Museum of Heraklion has twenty-five permanent employees who are now retired, that is, twenty-four. Ninety contractors have been recruited to meet needs, sixty - eight - seven - month contracts and twenty - two with five - month contracts, which expire on 20 June, in twenty days. So they will still not meet the increased needs due to the coming of tourists. Here, on the one hand, we are talking about an incredible slap between permanent and contractors and the two invitations - which have been announced and still made - are eighteen for the whole of Crete - and if I am not mistaken - in Heraklion eight, in the Archaeological Museum and in Knossos. We're talking about day and night guards. But so many pensions have been made over the last three or four years. So it does not solve any problems, and I repeat, because of increased needs, because of an increase in tourist traffic. To have a good question, Minister, when will this competition finally be opened? It's like the bridge of Arta. When? You made a commitment to the workers that you were going to open the competition now, at this time, in order to stop the strikes. What happened? What are the reasons for the delay in issuing the FEC and calling for the specific tender? You must give us a clear timetable. There is also strong concern among IDI workers about the conditions and criteria for this competition. What will the competition foresee? Tell us one, two, three, four, five criteria to prepare and those who are interested in making the applications. For example, what level of certification will be the foreign language? What's predicted? What are the other qualifications? We are asking for workers to know because there is a lot to be done and there is a lot to be heard if they have to be the 'Advanced' level of the English degree, if they have to be something else and there is a whole confusion. It should also be noted that there are still pending notices for cleaning staff in archaeological sites. I will not go into this now, so that I do not waste any more time. I'll tell my denture. It is a fragmentation of industrial relations, permanent contracts, five months, seven months, certified, uncertified. What is this regime that ultimately leads to social automation, "your life"? If the needs are over a thousand antiquatorials and cleaners throughout Greece and you're making two hundred recruitments, when they've retired so many previous years, you realize that, with mathematical accuracy, you will lead things to the entrance of the contractors. That's where things go unless that's what you want. You should, however, expressly take a specific position and take responsibility, because they are neural storage and cleaning services. So I would like to ask the questions: what is the exact timetable of the notice and the criteria it sets for the participation of stakeholders in it? Also, what measures will you take to immediately recruit all museums, archaeological sites and monuments with a permanent employment relationship and full insurance rights and the recruitment of a permanent relationship to cover all the needs of taxes and museums? Finally, for ISAF workers who have been working for years in custody, the state must undertake timely and free language learning, since they are also required to be recruited. Why are they running in the chambers and paying 500 euros paradoxes to get the certification? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, too. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, on one point I would like to agree with you that we are not satisfied with the division of recruitment and the constant anxiety in which the workers enter. However, believe that the Ministry of Culture and his services are trying to meet the needs of the increasingly archaeological sites and our museums, as well as the increasing visitability that we have seen since last year and which this year is a very great one. We all know very well that under the present unfavourable budgetary conditions and the country's Memorandum of Understanding, there is a hiring limit and a limit for workers' employment, which forces us to have these different forms of employment and contracts. The Ministry of Culture is making every effort to ensure the proper functioning of the sites. We will note that at the moment we have five hundred eighty-nine archaeological sites and museums all over the country. Today there are five hundred spaces with regular, extended hours, where there is a great deal of traffic. This also applies to Knossos, which you mentioned, but also to the Heraklion Museum. In particular, Heraklion Museum and Knossos, like the other places with great traffic, operate with extended hours, i.e. from eight in the morning to eight in the evening. Prison staff needs are mainly covered by five-month and seven-month contracts. We would very much like these people to be permanent, but unfortunately we cannot. They have already undertaken a service since the beginning of the year four hundred people of different specialties, day-to-day, night guards, cleaning staff and private-law workers. They were distributed throughout the territory. In Heraklion and Crete right now, these two hundred permanents are a total of sixty one days, one of the night watchmen is six and fourteen cleansing and one accountant. We therefore make sure that there are no gaps between the different recruitment categories. This is our great agony, to make the notices available in time, so that there are no gaps. With regard to these two hundred, permanent staff posts, we had already sent the notice to the AACC since December. This has been processed by the SAAP, we have now received comments and we are now in the last stage, where the publication of the notice is expected to take place in the next few days. Therefore, the objective we set for the recruitment of this staff in October seems to be approaching him earlier. With regard to permanent staff, the procedure for adopting ministerial decisions on the resignation of the State has been completed. It is a category that we have worked too hard for over a year to achieve - we have done so now - and it will soon be possible to recruit staff with an indefinite amount of time, which will be about three hundred people. They are employees of many specialties who have pre-service to their subject matter and have been judicially justified and in any case have been and have demonstrated the formal qualifications required and the other recruits, as defined in particular in the Ministry's organization. As far as the criteria are concerned, the conditions for the recruitment to which you have referred, I should like to tell you that the independent authority is identified, together with the minimum formal qualifications that have been placed in the new organization of the Ministry for all the categories of officials. And on the subject of foreign language it is a minimum requirement for foreign language knowledge to be at least good, because as you understand it, they come in contact with foreign visitors and must be able to communicate. This condition is of course not relevant to night guards or cleaning staff. The issue of the recruitment of seasonal cleaning personnel to leave it for my dentistry, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u56	I'd say yes, Minister, so we can shorten up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u57	Good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u58	Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u59	Madam Minister, the government's lasting succession, which, of course, demonstrates and what is its political strategic choice, is that 'we cannot do much, because we have budgetary commitments'. What does that mean? It means, in practice, subjecting to the institutions, namely the European Union, the European Central Bank, the International Monetary Fund. Submission in practice means a lack of safety and hygiene in the spaces of antiquities, archaeological museums, archaeological sites. That's what this is about. On the issue of cleanliness, which I left it for my dentistry, I would like to tell you that, apart from the fact that the notices for seasonal staff are still pending in the cleanliness of the archaeological sites and museums, and even at a time - I repeat - increased traffic, the Archaeological Museum of Heraklion is in danger of staying without cleanliness personnel in the summer. You said fourteen cleaners. That's not true. The information you have is wrong. In the past few days I was at the Archaeological Museum of Heraklion, and I myself found out how the situation is, I spoke to the workers. There is a permanent cleanser, which is seriously ill - I hope the woman will overcome her problem and return to her duties - there is also a five-month contract ending in twenty days. To get clean, who was recruited? The museum worker. Well, be the man, but these are-- let the expression-- piggyheads. Obviously, indoors and outdoors, particularly toilets, which, if not maintained, are an outbreak of contamination, cannot be maintained. At the same time, the government wants to upgrade the tourism product. As far as the issues of extended working time are concerned, I should like to tell you that with existing staff, when the needs are much larger, it means that work is intensified. It means that workers of certain specialties take up duties of another specialty. I'll tell you something else. There are smaller archaeological sites all over the country - I can tell you specifically in Agia Triada next to Phaistos, Vathypetre, the Fourns, next to the town of Archanes - which are left to their fate. There is no staff to keep these specific areas. Neither are they kept nor maintained. These areas must be raised and maintained. It is known that shortages of staff and flexible labour relations are always accompanied by intensification of work, with incompatibility, circumvention of working hours, even with terrorism in the workplace in order to get out of work, so that the contractor can get the job out of the job. To anyone who dares to raise a head, as long as the program comes out with the expanded operation of archaeological sites and museums. These are problems that have existed not only in you but also in previous governments, they are just a little more prosperous now, on the one hand, because of your policy but also because of the increased tourist movement, which is deliberately maintained and used as a pretext for getting private individuals involved in the preservation, protection, promotion, management, if you like, of cultural heritage, with contractors, with security companies and the method of many times charity and volunteering. So we have to stop this situation. We repeat that in order to solve the problem there is no need for two hundred, but a thousand and two hundred employees and a permanent employment relationship. Let us leave the others on a metropolitan node, a centre of interregional scope, protection and promotion of Knossos, cultural heritage, brand name or as they say it, in order to fool the world, while reality is completely different today. So the solution is one. For the uninterrupted operation of all museums and archaeological sites throughout the country, the solution is the permanent employment relationship and recruitment of the real needs. That's the reality. We are, of course, keeping what you said in relation to the contract notice, that it will take place in a few days. We're keeping it to see if it's really gonna be like the Minister says.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr. Synchronous. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u61	We are also concerned with cleaning staff. The resolution of L.4305/2017 provided for the possibility of hiring cleaning staff by eighteen-month contracts, without a PHS procedure, but by adopting a JSSD, i.e. a joint ministerial decision. Our Ministry, following its supplementary request, has ensured the recruitment of sixty-nine people - initially they were fifty - to be allocated throughout the territory. Credit for this purpose has been guaranteed and the position notices from the relevant inventions have been sent to the AACC. With regard to the tax to which you refer, the EGF of Heraklion, there are already six officials under an eight-month contract by November, and in the meantime the next eight will enter, so that there will not be any gap and the cleanliness in all places. The money has already been given and the notice will be given immediately. We are seriously concerned about all the issue that exists from the previous governments, namely the exit of too experienced capacity with pensions and transfers, since we know that in proportion to the four who left we could only hire one. Fortunately, this has now changed and in the position of one who is leaving we can hire another. However, in order to provide for the gradual implementation of all the specialities in the organization that we have submitted, we are planning to increase these positions by a thousand and thirty-five, with a view to covering these positions with regular staff. In particular, the proposed positions were increased by six hundred. The direct recruitment of all specialties and the provision of all our responsibility needs is something that our government would like not only for the Ministry but also for the entire public sector. However, it is well known that since we entered the memorandum, this is not a simple matter, when in the past much better economic conditions, other governments have not made a permanent solution to this problem. We are, however, already employing over five hundred people with a permanent employment relationship and employing more than two thousand three hundred jobs for all categories, including cleanliness. I would also like to say that the training of staff falls within the competence of another ministry, but we encourage workers to go to programmes through the OAS in order to learn other languages. Also, in the online ticket that is being implemented directly in collaboration with inventions, we train staff so that it can respond directly to the specific needs of the online ticket. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Minister. Subsequent to the fifth under number 1668/18-5-2018, a topical question from the Parliamentary Drama of the Democratic Comparison of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Kefalidou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Substantial "innovations" of the Ministry of Culture and Sport". Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, even late, we are discussing today the issue of the timely question concerning the exhibition hosted by the Byzantine and Christian Museum on "Panagios Tomb: The monument and the work". The report may be launched on 21 May 'After bases and branches', but the questions about the 'innovations' to which you have advanced remain. I explain: This report is essentially a report using new technologies and three-dimensional models and brings the visitor noblely to Jerusalem, specifically to the Temple of the Resurrection, to the Holy Tomb. With his recent decision, the Ministry, after consulting the Central Archaeological Board on May 8th, granted three rooms of the Museum to a civil non-profit company in order to carry out this exhibition. You say that the report will last until 30 June. Somewhere else it's reported to be until January 31st. If you'd like to clarify that, too. It concerns the restoration of the Holy Kubukli to the Temple of Resurrection in Jerusalem and the work carried out by the multidisciplinary team of the National Technical University. Our warmest congratulations to all this enormous mobilization and effort. In essence, therefore, it is a summary of the digital exhibition already operating in the United States by the NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC. The cost of the report seems to vary, and I am telling you this because there are only leaks in press reports. Others say the cost is 700,000 euros. Others are ejecting it back to 3,000,000 euros. A detailed budget has not been found anywhere. We need a clarification as to who the budget is eventually, since the project has been completed and you can give us some more detailed information about how much it cost. Now, let us refer to the two "innovations" of your Ministry. The first is that for the first time in history revenues from the sale of tickets will not be collected by the State, but will be managed by a third party and in this case the civil non-profit company. In other words, in very simple words, you granted the spaces of a public museum to a private person. The question is: against what honour. Is there a law that defines this? Has it become a PPP form? If that has been done, say it, so that people know about it, because, if I remember correctly, you once heard very hard criticism of the PPPs and annulled decisions, PPP contracts. Then, of course, you were in the period of blindness by your idealistic obsession. So now that you are implementing them, tell us on what terms you are implementing them, because the purpose is to do what is done in the public interest as well. And then "innovations" follow-up: Your second innovation is that for the first time the price for the ticket has not been decided by you, that is, not by the Ministry of Culture, but by the company. In fact, I will tell you that in the last week, we have been looking for a sense of where the ticket price will move, we have repeatedly made calls to the museum and people have not known what to say to us. In fact, on Friday, before the opening, we were playing the courgettes a little, i.e. "it will be 10 euros, will it be 8 euros?" Finally, the ticket will be at 10 euros. To have a comparison measure, I would like to tell you that at the Foundation of the Hellenic World, which is a legal person of private law with a beneficial cultural non-profit character, a digital tour image of the 5th-century Pericles Acropolis, lasting forty-five minutes has been in operation for many years and there the price of the ticket is 10 euros the whole and 8 euros the reduced. In conclusion, the questions I would like to ask you, Minister, are as follows: Firstly, who ultimately and on what basis will have the financial responsibility and the economic benefit of the report and with what budget? Secondly, why did you allow a private body to have such a decisive role in the whole organisation of this report? In fact it also sets the price of the ticket and has the full management of the revenues. Third: On what basis and on what basis did you award a known online ticketing company to sell the tickets for the exhibition? We sought to see if there was a proclamation post or a competition. If so, where was the company published and on which rating criteria selected? And the last: in the end, the Christian and Byzantine Museum, which hosts all this exhibition to three quarters of it - that the exhibition is nothing but two-five-minute videos and one-three-minute simulation environments and costs 10 euros for people over sixty-five - what benefit does it have?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, my colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the educational programme of the "Democracy Workshop", organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, seventeen students and students, and three educational attendants from the 4th Daphne Municipal School. Welcome to the Greek Parliament, guys. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u65	Mrs Kefalidou, I would like to stress that this report - because I have personally seen this report in Washington, as presented by the NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC - has been welcomed internationally as an important report of an universal nature. In fact, in Washington it was such a success of the report that was extended and turned into a kind of pilgrimage to people who cannot travel and go to the Holy Tomb for various reasons, and they really feel the thrill that we all felt when we attended the tradition of this great work last year in Jerusalem. Therefore, as you are presenting it, it is like reducing the importance of this report, which really gives enormous excitement to the people who visit it. It is not a question of how long a three-dimensional image is viewed, but how this report is presented, how it turns the visitor’s attendance into an experiential experience, also how it promotes internationally. And alas we in Greece, if we do not show ourselves the great work that has been done by Greek scientists, who have been greeted internationally, not just by the scientific community. I therefore believe that it is our duty to support this report, to give it the opportunity to present itself to Greece and precisely through the broadening of visits - which we have and observe - to give our visitors who cannot go to Jerusalem to make their own pilgrimage, regardless of faith. That is what we see, after all, people who are not necessarily Christians are visiting this report, but who are really interested in this important work. I would therefore like to emphasise our special pleasure in presenting this exhibition to the Greek and international public in an emblematic museum, which fits perfectly with the content of the exhibition, such as the Byzantine and Christian Museum. We have become accustomed to Greece everything new to confronting it with suspicion. I assure you there is nothing suspicious, nothing dark in this whole process that we have chosen. It is all clear, legally and based on the rules already in place. This rule also belongs to the fact that the Ministry of Culture may grant its sites, museums, archaeological sites to private or public bodies, provided that they are compatible with the space. This concession may be made with or without the payment of fees and after an opinion of the CSM or without the CSM on a case-by-case basis. In the case of this urban non-profit company called "Exhibition of the monument and the work of the Virgin tomb", this company submitted a request to the Ministry for the hospitality of this interactive exhibition using new technologies, to transfer this experience from the Church of Anastasios to the Greek public and to see from close the monument and restoration work from the National Technical University. The dean of the Polytechnic in his letter informed us that the multidisciplinary team of the National Technical University of Athens holds the data lawful after processing they were processed by "NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC" and intends to make them available for the implementation of the exhibition, which was made precisely with a protocol notified to the Ministry, as it was a condition for the decision to grant. The contents of the report were immediately communicated to the competent authority in order to be aware of the subject matter. The space, as I said before, of the Byzantine Museum, is perhaps the most appropriate. Also, the cost of the report was greatly reduced by the corresponding cost in Washington and dropped to 700,000 euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u66	Madam Secretary, should we leave a few for dentistry too?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u67	Because it's enough, if you'll allow me to say a few more. I'll leave the rest for later.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u68	Okay. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u69	In addition, this report, precisely because it was a very important report, was unanimously passed by the CSCE, although it was not necessary. But we just wanted him to have the opinion of the CAS. And the Ministerial Decision that was issued was posted in the “DENMARK”, so that everyone would know the concession as well as the conditions of the concession. For the purpose of managing revenues, which I agree with you that we must be very careful, there are two committees. One is the Ticket Monitoring Committee with responsibility for checking the revenue and expenditure of the exhibition and for carrying out phased clearances, in order to become part of the exhibition and a total of 2/3 return to the Ministry of Culture and 1/3 at the National Technical University in the form of sponsorship by AMKE. However, the report - and I stress it - is self-financed. He's cost nothing to the Greek taxpayer. The Ministry's commitment is only to the granting of safekeeping and cleaning staff to remain in the public service. It has also set a minimum guarantee of 10%, just to secure the costs it has done. We have therefore met all the conditions for this report to be a public report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, thirty-eight students and students and four educational attendants from the 3rd Municipal School of Agios Nikolaos Lassithi. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] You have the floor, Mrs. Kefalidou.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, I have listened very carefully. I confess wiser I didn't become. The answers I expected weren't given. I want to start with a question. How do you think our question weakens the support of the report? In other words, apart from the joy and emotion which is something genuine, a source, there must be something called credibility and transparency. You talked about rules. I didn't hear rules. Let's get started. Do you agree that the Byzantine and Christian Museums are a special regional agency of the Ministry, to which you are leading, and which is part of the Directorate-General for Antiquities and Cultural Heritage? Isn't that right? Good. This means, therefore, that it falls within all the public rules. In other words, for each activity it must have drawn up and published a detailed budget. Where is he? Do you agree that the members of the Scientific Council or even the Museums Directorate knows exactly where what is going? So shouldn't every Greek taxpayer, every Greek citizen, be aware of this through "HUMANY"? We have not found any decision of your own, nor of the opinion of the CSCE, nor of any element concerning this report on 'DENMARK'. And I'm telling you this because it makes me surprised that at the present time in the Byzantine Museum, along with the exhibition on the Holy Tomb, there is another important report "Byzantium and the others". This report therefore falls within the framework of a European co-financed programme of the TEMPUS programme, and there is everything clearly and transparently uploaded. While "Panagios tomph" has followed the procedures - which you tried to describe to us, I still do not understand - that remain a mystery. And in order to ease the climate a little, I will tell you that, all right, I can understand that, because of the subject of the report, you want the atmosphere to be not disturbed. It's a noble thought. However, the questions remain as to whether an exact budget has been submitted for the costs of the report, on which the sponsorship you are talking about, the Ministry of Culture and the National Technical University will also be determined. It is also very probable that the non-accurate setting of fees, which depend on the cost of the report and which we have again learned in the press that there will be 10% of the gross revenue of the organisation. While giving an additional amount as a grant to the Ministry of Culture and the VPA, the amount of which will be retrospectively calculated on the net revenues of the exhibition. And I ask you: really, we believe that it will have a great deal of success. To whom will the costs be charged if these are not covered by ticket receipts, if there is a damage tomorrow, bruv? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It is also indiscreet, following what you have said cloudyly, with which framework these famous - again specially designed for this reason - ticket and report monitoring committees will operate. And I ask you: have you formed them? And who are they made up of? And there is, in general, a rush, and from the result, I say a handsomeness, Minister. We cannot understand exactly what this organization is serving. I mean, you're making a ticket to a public museum that the museum won't define. That's never happened before. Mr President, I'm going to need some understanding, because this is a huge issue. Mr President, I hope I have it. Now the Christian and Byzantine Museum of which you are also bound by the spaces, seems not to be served by all the regulations you have made, because the report is yes it uses the public infrastructure and the preservation and cleaning facilities of the museum, but this is how it burdens the daily turnover of the museum itself and the introduction of a separate ticket for this exhibition, that of EUR 10, works competitively towards the museum, preventing visitors from visiting the museum's permanent collections, because it is an extra ticket, it is additional. I will not tell you about the curiosity with which the CAS has met. There's a agenda. There was nowhere. You made the right repetition. You put it in. Somewhere you've confused us with the dates. Eventually, when does the report come to an end? At the end of June or 31 January 2019? Say that, too, so we know. Well, all you told us about the civil non-profit company is that the company's application was made. And I'm telling you, only one company was interested? Wasn't there anyone else? And it took over everything from the organization and, above all, the sharing of revenues, where both the NPA and the Ministry of Culture show that rather a right of hope will preserve from the corresponding revenues, if and when they exceed. So here we are waiting for profits. If we don't, they won't get anything. So, this company I want you to tell us is there any or is it created exclusively for this occasion? And because it is so dissatisfied with everything you have told us, I tell you that the posting of "GENERAL" was necessary for such a major work, for such a report. We know that this is, of course, a wish by Mr Tsipras, and it has also been expressed in public. But I'll tell you what I feel. It's like you turned God's House into a house of commerce. That reminds us.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u72	Mrs. Kefalidou, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u73	I shall conclude, Mr President. And since the report will last from what I understand, and it will deal with us even more, I would like to tell you that whenever it is completed, either January or June, we - now we tell you about your programming - will return with questions. Because we hope that when it is completed - and it will be completed - and the sharing between all these partners, we expect to hear numbers that you have neither today nor said, nor show that you have an image. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u74	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs. Kefalidou, I am very sorry about your last observation. I am against it because it does not characterize us and does not express us in any way to turn culture into a place of trade. We want to say this: this report, I repeat, is self-financed. It doesn't cost. It is not the same as the reports organized by the Byzantine Museum itself, which are organised within the framework of the museum's action plan. This is a report that is being given to a separate private body. The data have been judged, they have been approved. He participates in this, too, the Metsovian Polytechnic, which is also a public body of great prestige. In addition, it is under the auspices of the President of the Republic and with the blessings of the Archbishop. It is also within the framework of the European Year of Cultural Heritage. I would like to ask, too, rhetorically. Hasn't you ever been concerned about the fact that Herodeion is a monument, which is granted to individuals, and many times incompletely? Or when fees are entered, have these fees rarely been collected from the EDF in the past? Has that ever bothered you? Because it's been true in the past few years. They never actually paid those fees to the EDF. Hasn't that ever bothered you? It's a public space, a monument. It is granted to individuals under rules under conditions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u76	Are you concerned about what you're doing, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u77	And archaeological sites and museums, therefore, can, on a case-by-case basis, decide themselves to grant them. They sometimes present the full list of their choices at times not. They shall be appropriate as appropriate. This report, because it was considered a flagrant report, considered it appropriate to go through the CSCE, precisely so that there is no suspicion that it is something that has not been done through the procedures provided for in the Ministry of Culture. With regard to the competitive ticket you mentioned. Personally, I've been to too many museums abroad. In permanent exhibits that exist in a museum when it's emblematic, like the part of Tutankhamun at the Cairo Museum, you pay a separate ticket to see it and let it be permanent. So we don't think there's anything unprecedented about having a special ticket. On the contrary...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u78	Tell that to the Archaeologists' Union.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u79	I'm sorry I didn't finish. Don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u80	Mrs. Kefalidou, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u81	I didn't interrupt, excuse me. We therefore believe that these people who will come to see this report may be people who have never been to the Byzantine Museum. This will therefore be an incentive to see the rest of the amazing collection of the Byzantine Museum. They'll meet the museum, they'll go visit it. And we believe that this ticket will not forbid them. In addition, we have arranged for there to be as the condition of granting incomplete access to all public museums, as well as the reduced ticket for vulnerable population groups as defined by the law. That is what I wanted to say. We have complied with all the rules. And it is really a pity, such an important report that starts, is redealed with such conditions of suspicion, suspicion, precisely because it is an innovative way of granting the museum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I will inform you of the timely questions that will not be discussed. The first under number 1709/29-5-2018 topical question by Evia MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Georgios Excellency to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject of the "Municipal Market of Chalkida", will not be discussed by the Minister, Ms. Konordos. The twelfth under No. 1648/15-2018 topical question by Independent MEP 2, Ekaterini Papakostas - Ironopoulou, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject of "Academy of Arts", will not be discussed by the Minister, Ms. Konordos. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, the following topical questions will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the relevant ministers: The third, with number 1698/24-2018, top-level question by the First Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of the Interior, on "The problems of the operation of ELAS in Dodecanese, in the tourist season", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Interior Mr. Nicholas Toska, on the grounds of unsuccessful obligations. The fifth question under number 1693/23-2018, the first-round question from the H' Vice-President of the Parliament and Members of Parliament II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject "The last hit of the "Rubicon" - Distribution of brochures for his action in Athens", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Home Affairs Mr. Nicholas Toska, due to miscomplicated obligations. The third, with number 1715/29-5-2018, topical question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis to the Minister of the Interior, on "Prevention measures to prevent forest fires and address their consequences in the light of the new anti-nuclear period", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of the Interior Mr. Nicholas Toska, on the grounds of irresponsible obligations. The fourth question under number 1672/21-5-2018, a second question by MP I Piraeus, New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou, to the Minister of the Interior, on "Anti-nuclear preparation of the country in view of the summer period", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of the Interior Mr. Nicholas Toska, on account of misguided obligations. The sixth question under number 1673/21-5-2018 of the new Republic MP, Andreas Katsaniotis, on the subject: "Problems in the Roma camp of Patras", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of the Interior Mr. Nicholas Toska, on the grounds of unsuccessful obligations. The seventh question under number 1609/7-5-2018 of the New Democracy MP, Maximou Charakopoulos, on the subject: "A Letter of protest and despair residents of the Exarchites", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of the Interior Mr. Nicholas Toska, on the grounds of unsuccessful obligations. The eighth Question No 1615/8-5-2018 of the Parliamentary Attica of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Eve Christophilopoulos to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject "Nine tolerance of the residents of Exarches in the inadequacy of a dangerous situation in the region", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Interior Mr. Nicholas Toska, on the grounds of unsuccessful obligations. Eleventh under number 1628/11-5-2018 a topical question from the Independent MP II of Athens (State) Panagoulis to the Minister of the Interior, on "Criminality and all manner of attacks by people of the sub-world and fork rebels", will not be debated because of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of the Interior Mr. Nicholas Toska, on the grounds of unsuccessful obligations. The sixth Question No 1714/29-5-2018 by Mr Ioannis Giokas, Member of the Communist Party of Greece, on the subject of "No to the extremely expensive HYTAS grammatical, destructive to health and the environment", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of the Interior Mr. Panagiotis Skourletis, because he is in a conference in Verea. The second under number 1716/29-5-2018 topical question of the second question by the MP Heraklion of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMARK KEgeroglou Vassiliou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on "Direct payment of the balance of the support to the 2014 programme of young farmers", will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr.Evangelos Apostolos. The ninth under No. 1554/24-2018 topical question by MP Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of the Interior, on the building for housing of the Department of National Roads, will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of the Interior Mr. Nicholas Toska. Finally, the tenth under number 1151/26-2-2018, a topical question by MP Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of the Interior, on "Questions regarding the case of agent based on revelations of P. Kammenos", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Interior Mr. Nicholas Toska.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u83	Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u84	Mr. Panagoulis, would you like something?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u85	Mr President, I would like you to give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u86	I guess it's for your question. Because this is the multiplicity of time when your question is not answered and you have sent us letters, take the floor to say what you think.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u87	Since 3 March, Mr President, I have tabled the specific question you have raised on crime. It is unacceptable, Mr President, that Mr Toskas, Mr Toskas, should not be present for three months, and that he should respond to a serious issue that is afflicting the Greek people with crime. The Rules of Procedure are clear. When a Member, Mr President, does not come to five successive plenary sessions, he is subject to comments and penalties. Mr. Toskas despises Parliament. As soon as yesterday, Mr President, two ATMs were blown up. Last year, a hundred and seventy ATMs have been blown up. A month ago in Pallini, a retired former police officer was murdered and a mythical sum of money was found on him. Let Mr. Toskas tell us where this money was intended.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u88	Mr Colleague, however, I should like to say something because you are an experienced colleague. You must put your objections to the absence of the Minister, but do not go into the essence of your question, because that cannot happen. Mr. Minister isn't here to answer you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u89	You're right. I shall conclude, Mr President, with one phrase. Mr. Toska's behavior is unacceptable. It despises Parliament, which you also know very well, because you participated in those struggles to reopen this Chamber when Mr Toskas was in a rival camp. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u90	Please, Mr. Panagoulis. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-31-S1-commons.u91	With the agreement of the House at 11.31 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, 1 June 2018 at 10.00, on the subject of Parliament's work, parliamentary scrutiny: (a) a debate on topical questions; and (b) a debate on the question by Members of the Democratic Assent to the Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights on the subject: "Syntheticly undermining justice by the Government and an orderly control and manipulation operation", according to the agenda distributed.
