ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Friday 30 March 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1403/27-2018 topical question by MP B' Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaos Xydakis to the Minister of Economy and Development, on "No discrimination in the banking supply of credit and debit cards". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Mr Miltiadis Varvitsiotis, Member of the Commission. — (EL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his answer. 3. By No. 1388/23-2018, the current question of the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ioannis Bagou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: "Turks are engaged in smuggling tobacco within Greek territorial waters". 4. The question raised by Mr Athanasios Vardalis, Member of Parliament, of the Communist Party of Greece, dated 1407/27-2018, on the subject: "Instability of the customs producers in front of the deadlocks of the Greek Sugar Industry (EBZ) restructuring programme". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1404-27-2018 topical question by the Member of the Dodecanese Coalition of the Radical Left, Elias Kamaterou, to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on "Construction within areas within the jurisdiction of the port administration and exploitation bodies". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 1378-22-2018 by the Independent MEP Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the hazardous waste of the "Hellenic Chrysos" in "HYTEA". 3. The Question by Mr Andreas Katsaniotis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on “The Corrosion of Ayalos and Effects on Coastal Areas of Achaia” by No 1080/92/13-2-2018. 4. The 1261/6-3-2018 topical question by MP Evros of the New Democracy, Anastasios Prize to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "The sustainability of the factory of the Greek Sugar Industry in Orestia". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Previously, I would like to take note of the fact that the Special Parliamentary Committee ‘for a preliminary examination in accordance with the Parliamentary Assembly decision taken at its meeting of 21 February 2018 on the NOVARTIS case’, on which the Parliamentary Assembly had set a deadline for submitting its findings on 28 March 2018, calls for an extension of its operation until 28 April 2018. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u2	So the House unanimously agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing with the debate on the topical and urgent questions. Eight questions will be discussed. We will begin with the debate on the seventh under number 1336/19-3-2018, a topical question from the First Vice-President of the Parliament and a Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Kremastinos to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Further work at the School of Archangelos Rhodes". The State Secretary for Infrastructure and Transport will answer Mr Nikolaos Mavraganis. Mr. Kremastein, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, Minister, we have discussed this before. It's about Rhodes' long-term school that's afflicted. The question is. In what practical way can we solve this problem and deliver the school this year and not go to extensions beyond 2018? That's the most interesting thing. I won't say anything else. I expect to hear you, and if there's any difference, we'll talk about it later.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u5	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u6	Mr Vice-President, you are absolutely right to convey to Parliament the concern of the society and the school community of parents for this school, which is progressing not in the best possible way in carrying out the work. The timetable provided that these days, if I remember correctly on 16 March, the project would have been completed and surrendered. This has emerged, which creates a foggy situation, a situation that is difficult to solve under normal conditions: Since 2016 an improvement has been made - and this improvement has well been made - in the work, that is, the walls have been insulated, double walls have been made - retrospective, batteries - and at the same time an increase has been made in the small, as originally foreseen. That's what's increased. Since then, after 2016, a correspondence begins - which I think should have expired a long time ago and I think that the average person thinks - between the contractor and the municipality that has urban services and should have reviewed the building permits to include the work I have told you before. The municipality with its urban services - I do not know why sincerely - despite the fact that we have been molested on several occasions, it has not carried out this review of permits. On the other hand, the contractor who initially had as mechanics of the municipality and later - his right - changed them and put his son as mechanics, probably for these real reasons, probably for other reasons asked for this justification, namely that they have not yet revised the building permits from the municipality, a new extension of the project. In my view, the municipality's unprecedented revision of the permits - which the contractor is right here - would not be an impediment for the work to go on. However, the work has not progressed to the maximum extent, it has moved to about 70% of the project and continues to exchange letters between the contractor and the municipality on how the licence revisions will be made. We, through building infrastructures, have intervened in the direction of speeding up the process. When we were asked to be extended for five hundred days, Mr Vice-President, that is until August 2019, we refused immediately. And as the last concession to the contractor so that we do not go to last-minute solutions - which are not desirable either from us, I imagine neither from you nor from the local community, because we will get into even worse, without, of course, excluding them, if we have no other solution in the future - we have given him a last chance to complete the project until the new school period, that is to say until 12-9-2018. I want to believe - the image I have is that he wants to complete the project - that he will be able to complete the project. But if, Mr Vice-President, we find that it is still not possible to complete the work, then we should perhaps consider more drastic solutions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Here, Mr Vice President, Mr Kremastine, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u8	I share your concerns. They're my concerns too. But above all there is the agony of the municipality, the local society of children and all that they expect to enter their school. In a debate that we had together and with the manufacturer, he revealed to me - he clearly told me - that if there is a fixed amount of money a month, he is able to deliver the school by September. I would therefore ask that this dimension be heard and investigated if, in fact, this is the case, that is, if we can do so, so that we can finish and avoid any legal adventures and anything else, because this will, in fact, actually mean that the project is cancelled. So, practically - and I am glad to find a practical solution - I would ask you to invite him to discuss this issue. We do not have to come to Parliament to have this dialogue. We can see between ourselves what can be done so that we can achieve our goal, that is, the new school period for the children to enter their school.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u9	Thank you very much to the Vice-President. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u10	That's the way it is, Mr. Vice President. We have so far brought us certified accounts per stage of work, we are paying him in the nearest period, that is, the prioritisation we have given for the payment of this contractor, because we are aware of the issue that exists, is of the highest degree. But, indeed, the accounts that bring us are at longer stages of project execution. If they certified accounts on a monthly basis - in smaller, that is, project stages - and they are certified accounts from the management department, then we can also make more frequent disbursements. So I think we are in the mood, if he can confirm his accounts more quickly, that he has actually carried out his work at short intervals per month, every two months, as you say, etc., then we will see the disbursements, when he will bring us the accounts at shorter intervals, whether or not it will facilitate the completion of the project. The project and ours and yours are very clearly the completion of the project.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u11	Thank you very much to the Minister. We move on to the debate of the eighth under number 1380/20-3-2018 on the second-round question of the Fourth Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Larisi of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The need to intervene on the old national road through the city of Larissa, as well as on the road of Larissa - Volos". Please, Mr Vice-President, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. The question was raised on the occasion of the recent accident in Larissa and the loss of a young woman, who, of course, comes into addition to the dozens of accidents taking place in this region, namely the crossroads between Volos and the old national road, which have been taking place for years in this particular area, if you like, on the roads in question, which have also been designated by the inhabitants - and we, of course, accept that - as roads to the town of Larissa. Of course, they are results - we appreciate - of the unregulated construction and development of the region, of the town plan and of the land use governed by it and which are subject to specific directions of entrepreneurial activity and business profitability. It is a result of a clear criminal policy, which is implemented over the years by the governments concerned and also by the local and regional authorities of the region and, of course, non-existence - that is, - of the necessary infrastructure to protect human life. In this direction, therefore, and in the face of the long-term demand from the people of the region for the creation of the necessary works at times and, in particular, during periods such as that experienced by the people with the tragic incident, the competent bodies, local authorities, regional authorities, are throwing the ball at each other and, of course, nothing is done. At the same time, we want to stress that the accidents caused by this carnival road are related to the fact that Larissa is surrounded by toll stations which, due to the high cost of transit, force heavy-duty drivers to pass through the urban fabric of the city. So the questions, Mr President, to the Ministry are. Firstly, to satisfy the people's demands for the first place to be met by Volos on a soft road, but also by the creation of all the necessary projects to transform the section of the old national road into a urban road. Secondly, specific interventions in the area, unequal pedestrian passages, marking, better lighting, hiking, bypassing the old and new national streets out of the city. Thirdly, there should be a abolition of tolls, which is the main reason, as I mentioned at the outset, forcing heavy vehicles to avoid the high toll costs, to pass through the city's web through the old national road. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. Lambroulis. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u14	Mr Vice President, you are quite right about what you are saying, that, after the transformation of traffic from the Old Athens-Thessaloniki National Road into a softer, more provincial, more provincial, and more provincial second-class street - after the construction and completion of the main road in Athens-Thessalonica, it is clear that this particular old national road has hired different traffic characteristics. On the other hand, as you are clearly aware, and with your question yourself, the competence to study - we are indeed talking about exclusive competence, as defined in the Code of Municipalities and Regions - is, unfortunately, one of the regions of Thessaly. The fact is that you, as well as other regional and county bodies, have obviously pressed for specific forecasts from the region with studies on these roads and the old national road, which, at that point, - as you said, and I agree with you - is compatible with Volos - Larissa, but also with other points. We, in fact, have the possibility, when the region asks us and has mature studies, to assist financially, if it so requests. Such requests have helped the region of Thessaly four in the last three years and the total cost was EUR 3,800,000, EUR 4,100,000, EUR 5,100,000, EUR 6,000 in this direction, in projects that the region had studied on this particular road but on other points. I would like to say that - and you are doing well and you are bringing this question to the House, so that we and you and we - can also see that the region in this House, too, should finally become aware of this issue and should draw up a study on this subject. If it does not have the funds to finance the project in question, which special services will indicate on this point - which, by agreeing with you, must in any case be within some unequal passage of pedestrians, some underground passage of pedestrians, some signs of other measures - then we should be financially helpful in this direction, as we have done on other occasions. But the region must in any case include this issue in its priorities. Unfortunately, Mr Vice-President, so far he has not done so.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u15	Thank you very much, Minister. Here, Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u16	Minister, you confirm what I have said in my prototype and, moreover, the question is that there are time-consuming responsibilities - we say not only of the governments, of course, but also of the municipalities at local level, but also of the regions, as you said - on an issue which has to do with the resolution of basic people's needs, so as to say so, in terms of road safety, on transit through these roads, on improving traffic conditions for people with their vehicles, on bicycles, on pedestrians, etc. Look, for many years now - I don't remember exactly - since Larissa has been bypassed on the new axis, as far as the national network of Athens - Thessaloniki is concerned, this was a request for institutions and parties if you want. We have also made it locally, claiming through the city's population groups or institutions, 'civilisation' - let me the technical term - on the old national road and, of course, the implementation of certain projects. But look at something. There's been a piece. A small part of the old national road has already been completed, as part of what they say 'civilisation', if I may say the technical term. Is he in trouble? It solved some problems crossing the districts, for example, that part of the old national. But it did not solve the crossing of heavy vehicles on the basis of what I told you. They have increased in recent years with the existence of tolls, with what this means, such as the burden, in particular, on the direction of accidents, and, secondly, the increase rather than their reduction. This is also a common confession in the area, in the city, if you like, that the speeds of the vehicles and everything else have increased. In any case, some interventions are required. We say that in time there are responsibilities. We are neither dismantling the region nor the municipalities nor the governments concerned. Why would you look at this? The state unites like a thread. Second-degree State, local government. It's not a stranger. Why now see, in the face of such accidents, or when such accidents occur, they all shed crocodile tears against what is happening, but no one undertakes to claim and resolve these chronic issues. [[This is where the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing.]] Of course these issues are related to what I have said to you and to the uses of land, to spatial planning, to the development of our country, to our regions and others, to what path, and whether or not this development path is geared towards resolving people's needs between them and such interventions. Let me say this. The state, the government, the government, the ministry, why should it wait, even for many other reasons, for a local authority that - rightly so, you said so - did not care, did not bother, did not do the rest of the studies? Do they have responsibilities? They do. However, the State itself should have the responsibility - we say - of interventions in such matters, of discomfort - in introductory or non-important terms and therefore of imposing measures to say so in the direction of resolving these problems for the mobilisation of regions and municipalities. I say this because we have experience - not only personally but perhaps all of us - of the functioning of local and regional authorities. On the one hand, they are not unresponsible and on the other hand they have a specific political status, and on the other they depend on what policies are being promoted by the regional and/or municipal authority and on your function by the municipality where you head. So, in our view, the main thing is that it is a political issue. It has to do with the development path, a development path which does not aim to satisfy people's needs, not only in such infrastructure projects - I mean road construction and so forth, what goes on in the question - but also in what happens with anti-military works, anti-Semitism protection, and so on. I'm closing, Mr. President. Sorry about the delay, Minister, we must divide the interventions that must be taken into immediate action. Of course some of them also need some time. You said very well about the old highway. There are other issues that go to the questions. Firstly, direct intervention, hiking and other things, which can be done. We say that once municipalities or regions do not have the funding, the state must of course finance all these projects. Second, bypass. I also have relevant memos and drawings on the proposals made by the inhabitants and institutions in the region, which I will present to you. And when I say bypass, I mean bypassing and connecting the old national highway to the new highway, bypassing the city of Larissa, so that they have a way out, in particular, of heavy vehicles and not just in order to bypass the old national road.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u17	Mr. Bright, let's close. Thank you. We've reached six minutes. We have eight questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u18	They are projects which will help and, of course, will minimise the enormous risks and the accidents that are taking place in the region.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u19	Thank you very much. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u20	Mr Vice-President, I fully agree with you. What I can do for my own part is to motivate the regional administration in writing, which, unfortunately, has its own self-interest in this area and, on the basis of your own timely question - and I will inform you of the discomfort - to inform them - although they should have been aware - of this important issue which is at risk of human lives. It is obvious and obvious that what you said first in class and prioritised must be public works, concerning human life and civil protection. It makes no sense - and that is why my intervention at that time had been made to the Ministry of the Interior, to make special provisions in this direction - to do screenworks when we have a lack of flooding. And after one, two, three, five, ten years is coming and all the culture that we have created and lost human lives is destroyed, despite the fact that we have built windowworks, because we have simply observed the main priority, which is civil protection projects. So we will be making and I will communicate to you - I repeat - our written invitation and our admiration to the regional administration, to finally include this particular node there in its predictions and to conduct a study. And then if it does not have the funds, we can help build the project recommended by them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr. Minister and Mr. Lambroulis. We move to the 20th first with number 128512-3-2018, a topical question for the second cycle of the Member of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Georgios Palliou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on "South bypass of Mytilini". Here, Mr. Palley, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. We are talking about the southern bypass of Mytilini, a project that is an important transport project not only for the city of Mytilini but for the entire island. It is the road, which from the airport of Mytilini with seven knots bypassing the whole city and connected with the road axis, leading to the west part of the island. This project is important for the whole island. Apart from upgrading the city we are talking about accessing ten to fifteen minutes earlier at the Hospital of Mytilini for each patient from the rest of the island, which will need to reach a hospital that is evolving, in a hospital growing, in a very good hospital. We're talking about accessing museums and school bands. We are talking about the access of tourists ten, fifteen, twenty minutes earlier to the final destination that is usually not the city of Mytilini, but areas one and a half hours away from the city. It is a project whose debate has started since 2002 and we have been in a critical situation. On 7 April 2018, the extension, according to a decision taken by the Road Works Directorate, will end in order not to be built - just to say it - on the construction of another building. The study is too late. Comparative tables have been delayed to be sent from the Northern Aegean Region for the last four years and it has been an excuse in order not to go ahead with a project. But at the moment we want their approval by the Ministry of Studies Council, in order to ensure this work of breath, a project that has been being drawn up for many years. I will tell you some titles from local newspapers: 2006 "Dimourati": "They are deliberately excluded. Bypassing the southern bypass, in April 2007, “Russelets against the southern bypass”, “Small Interests have caught the study two months now,” in May 2007, “the south bypass will finally be done, signed by George Sufflias”. We've reached 2018 and the same micro-factors are the ones that are stuck in the project. We're waiting for your answer. I'm going to go on in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. Palley. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Pallie, thank you very much for the question. You are well aware of the issue, because you are one of the serious local players on the island. I give you some information that I visit your beautiful island and I connect with it at least once a year. The work you are referring to is a project that has raised sensitive strings of micro-stakeholders, as you have called them, but large local players. These big local players probably had those accesses and could privilegedly have conversations with people, who eventually influenced the view and actions of the services in the region, so that the study that is exclusive - unfortunately - of the region is delayed. It is what I said before and to the Vice-President, Mr Lambroulis, that the Code of Municipalities and Regions and the Constitution, provided for exclusive competence in the district authority, to prepare studies on regional second-class and provincial roads. So we do not even have the possibility of getting into the study process. But we have the opportunity, after the study has been completed, to be able to approve it as a project, if we have been asked for funding, in order to go ahead with it. I also give a news to you, Mr Papoutsis, and to the people of Mytilini. Today we are talking - at noon, I think - the Public Works Council is meeting. So on his agenda it is precisely the adoption of the study and work, so that we can then auction it and pay the expropriations. You know that the basic differentiation in Law 4412/2016 on public works and the strategy we have as a Ministry is to go along with the expropriations, so that there is no stumbling or excuse from any contractor that the project cannot proceed, because it has not been purchased, to say it simply to understand the world, the land lane, to which the project must be implemented. So the expropriation has to be done beforehand. So that is what we are adopting today as a project in the Public Works Council. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Mr President, please, for the continuation of my speech too, I should like to take time from my denology. I guess I won't even have to answer for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u25	Of course, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u26	So what about the North Aegean region? She had for years been holding the study of this work for her own reasons. We might have a thousand and two in mind. That region - i.e. - has its own objections. However, the fact is that the study has not been completed. Today we are told that there is an integrated study. However, the services tell me that they are not at the level of implementation but at the level of final study and still want something to be done. That's not even done. They said, therefore, that they have completed the study stage at a final but not implementation level as of November 2017 and gave it further to the Ministry to draw up the final part and approve it by the Public Works Council. Thus, most of the time was consumed - 95% of the time - which was granted as a suspension of building permits in this strip of land, which must be expropriated to do the work. I do not want to believe that this time was consumed on purpose by some local actors who had the privileged conversation with certain people. I don't want to believe it! But the fact is that last minute they give us a study, which is not complete at the implementation level, so that we can go and do what? Within a period of two and three days and a month to proceed with a procedure at study and approval level for expropriation and recovery of funds, as the extension of the suspension of licences expires. So I give you the information that we are doing all the necessary efforts - I do not want to say more than Stepma - with the Ministry of Finance to achieve in any way the further extension of this precisely suspension of building permits. The work of the south bypass will be done they do not want.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Pallie, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u28	Mr President, I will say a few things. After informing - the Minister knows - that up until now over EUR 1 million has been paid for this study, that a very small sum is lacking and that the intention of some is to smash EUR 1 million and throw it in the basket of unusables - this is the intention for 15, twenty years late - I want to fill in two things. The importance of such a study is not only about what we have said before, but also about a part that has been done in the study on the flood protection of the city. There's a ring over the city. It's an issue because flooding phenomena have been on our island in recent years. I want to keep the Ministry's commitment that the study will be completed, that the comparative tables will go ahead and that this work will be done, because it is worth the whole island. I will close, after presenting the history of the study, so that you and Parliament can have a clear picture of how a study launched by the EUR 300,000 reached EUR 1.5 million in previous years and how they did public works or rather complete studies, as you said quite rightly. I'll complete it by saying this. It's an old project, a project of what I don't know how much they've left at your Ministry as studies run by the Ministry and the funding was in the Ministry to complete the studies. Consider the completion of the final study, so that the work can be integrated as soon as possible. I would say to you that perhaps we should also see it as a project of greatest importance, so that it can join some programmes as quickly as possible, see the place where this project can be carried out, so that we can fill out what this government has done in Lesbos, in Mytilini, with tens of millions - and I say this as it is - in urban regeneration, the regeneration of the port, the total projects, which will be a pity not to button with the city's breath and the access of the whole island much faster to hospitals and ports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u29	Thank you very much Mr. Palley. Ladies and gentlemen, MP Mr Dimitrios - George Karras seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad for the period from 11 April to 15 April 2018. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u30	The House therefore approved the requested permission. I also have the honour to inform the House that the Standing Committee on Production and Trade presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy entitled: "Integration into Greek legislation of Directive (EU) 2015/1794 and other provisions". We move on to the next up-to-date questions, which will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr Anastasios Petropoulos. The first question will be discussed under No 1391/26-2018 of the First Cycle of the Member of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Asterios Kastoris to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the subject of ‘Independent diseases in the single table for the determination of the disability rate’. Please, Mr. Castore, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u31	Dear Minister, with the recent publication in FEK of 4591/27-12/2017 Joint Ministerial Decision of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity and the Ministry of Finance, the single identification table for disability rate has been revised. In the table, as we know, the rates of disability resulting from any illness or injury, physical or mental impairment or combined occurrence of such illness or impairment, and their relapses, shall be determined. The revision of the single table relieved many people with disabilities and their families, as many missing and more correctly defined, based on substantiated scientific data, the rate of disability yield. However, the publication of the revised table was accompanied by concerns and reflection by some of the collectives of patients, such as in the case of the Pan-Hellenic Federation of People with Sclerosis by Plaka. The questions also arise from the non-inclusion of RETT syndrome, which is a complex genetic neurological disorder, which is guarded by females, affects communication and body movements, and is associated with severe mental delay and kinetic disability. Also does not include Williams syndrome, which is an autoimmune dominant genetic disorder, including peripheral pulmonary aortic stenosis, characteristic face, mental delay, characteristic dental malformation and child hypercalcaemia. In addition to this revised table, there is no reference to mucosal palsycardias, which are a heterogeneous family from rare genetic lysosomal storage disorders and lead to severe morbidity and reduced life expectancy. Finally, sporadic complaints are being made by patients who say that the centres of disability certification, our known CEPDs, operate as budgetary committees aimed at cutting allowances and not as centres for the opinion of disability. I ask you this: what measures does the Ministry intend to take to restore unequal treatment, resulting from the revision of this single table, for the specific groups of patients facing serious and incurable diseases, such as those I mentioned earlier? Also, what measures does the Ministry intend to take in order to comply with the planned operation of CEPDs, so that citizens feel that their medical problems are properly taken into account and are not wronged? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u32	Thank you very much Mr. Castaris. Minister, you have the floor for your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u33	Thank you very much. You raise a very sensitive issue and the government has handled it with the sensitivity that you put it, Mr President. It's a matter that isn't over and it's not over for us, Mr. Castore. In January we issued two joint ministerial decisions. The first was published by the Minister for Finance on the amendment of the single list of disability rates and the most positive changes to the disability. The second Ministerial Decision concerns the revision of the list of diseases for which the period of invalidity of insured persons is determined indefinitely. We tripled the number of these diseases from forty-three, which was in the relative table in a hundred thirty. So we avoid waiting for suffering people in a review process every so little and every day. Forty-three indefinitely three went a hundred and thirty. We decided on the single disability rate determination table, to be reviewed whenever necessary to be revised, as the relevant procedure is linked to the revision of the single disability rate determination table, linked to the International System of Statistical Classification of Diseases and Relevant Health Problems ICD10, and in any case we update the relevant list based on the new data and on the review of the issues. We have already done so very soon since the day we took off the list, adding to these diseases the disease of multiple sclerosis, at the request of the interested parties, who have never been subject to this disease, which has been permanently integrated into the relevant table. We have now incorporated it and directly we will incorporate other diseases, such as infections with abruptly infectious diseases, with acquired third-stage immune deficiency, biopsies, severe pulmonary hypertension, lung transplantation, genetic chromosome syndromes belonging to the autism spectrum, cerebrovascular retinal retinal haemorrhagic haemorrhage and such diseases that no one has ever considered to be included in the relevant table. We will incorporate them and we will soon see the relative convergence of the relevant special scientific committee in order to put these in place. Everything you've told me, we've got it all right. They shall be subtotals, in particular in cases of illnesses already included in the relevant table. So Williams-Buren syndrome is explicitly included and Ret syndrome is present in the autistic spectrum disorders and there is explicit reference to the patient's relevant autism file. It is in this case. Mucopolysaccharides are included in the endogenous metabolic diseases of rare diseases, for which a short and relevant ministerial decision will be adopted. In other words, in any case, we have such conditions, which we need to incorporate immediately after the opinion of the Scientific Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u34	Thank you very much to the Minister. Mr. Castore, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u35	I also expect an answer for the CSRs, for their operation, but I would like to add one more, Minister. I would like to raise the issue, which is about children with autism. In recent years, we have become Members of Parliament - there have also been reports on this in the press - on the abolition of disability benefits for children with autism because of the new way of determining disability and the reduction of the minimum rate to 50% from 67%. More specifically, it is foreseen as a minimum rate of return for disturbances in the autistic spectrum in 50%, which does not give rise to disability benefit, as this is given to disabilities above 67%. Could you tell us what exactly is and what the planning of the Ministry's service for disability benefits provides for? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u36	Thank you very much. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u37	On the last point of your allowance, Mr Colleague, the committee did not accept the payment of an allowance. We will insist on that. It is an issue that we always have to manage with the opinion of the Special Committee. We do not give up the desire to be granted, but we must also be convinced of this regulation, which I believe we will succeed for those people. In particular, however, I must say that in 2012, she received a disability allowance of more than 67% of the applicants. Today we have a better approach. In 2017, it takes 81% of the applicants. Despite what has been said, we do not have a policy in which to reduce the number of people suffering from disability. I repeat that in 2012, it received 68.3% of applicants for disability more than 67% and in 2017 it was now 81%. Despite what has been said, we in practice show sensitivity and the disability examination committees are more sensitive to see with a more positive view, for the sufferers, the requests for disability. Of course, it has to do with the medical opinions, opinions and scientific advice of the committee, which we consider to be sufficient, but our political view is given, and it is shown that it has a practical effect, from the fact that much more are those who enjoy the benefits of disability, but in a way that is not a factual one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u38	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, fifty-five students and students and four teachers attending the 4th Stavroupolis of Thessaloniki. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] You are following the procedure of the current questions. They are questions that Members ask to the Ministers on various issues concerning the regions, society and parliamentary work. We move to the third with No 1406-27-2018 topical question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on "Moderation of the conditions for the performance of EFKA's insurance to the insured". Dear colleague, Mr Katsotis, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the question has been the background for the performance of the insurance, as it has been recorded since 2001. Starting from 2011 - for a short time - the electronic reporting regime for certain categories of employers was differentiated There are the general documents of the IKA Income Insurance Department. I don't read them for brief reasons. In particular, to employers who either had a great debt or were controlled for virtual staff employment, the possibility of electronic submission of an APR was removed, which they must now submit to the IKA branch which controls, by providing them, firstly, the employment figures of the employees - recruitment, contracts, staff tables, payroll statements, employee tax statements - and secondly, tax figures - forms E1, E2, E9, asset situation - of the company and its legal persons. The IKA branch after having audited, and as long as it found that there is actual staff employment, registered electronically the APRC, confirmed the corresponding insurance contributions by drawing up a contributory act, which it communicated to the employer. After the employer has received the contribution transaction, workers, irrespective of their repayment or adjustment, could use their time of insurance. But, Minister, with the M8/73253 document of the IASA insurance contribution collection division from 15-01-2018 I overthrow it completely. In order to obtain the SG&A of an undertaking which has debts and has not been subject to regulation, a further condition is introduced. Pay the insurance contributions for the last month of employment. If he doesn't, IKA's branch won't accept or receive for control. Immediately it is the employees of the company to remain uninsured until the employer decides to pay the contributions. So you're punishing the worker. In addition, employers do not have to deal with any kind of fine irrespective of the time when the unsub was submitted. So we are asking you whether you intend to reintroduce what has been the case to date, namely by submitting the IAS to ensure that workers' insurance is fully guaranteed and any benefits and that the responsibility is not transferred to them, because the employer does not pay contributions. It also immediately annuls the contested document, which, in a challenging way, effectively relieves employers and punishes workers, leaving them uninsured. We're waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr. Katsotis. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u41	Mr Katsotis, I think you will agree, if you have taken a better look at the fact that this regulation is designed to improve the service of insured workers, particularly, and to facilitate the process of collecting debts on the part of employers. You'll see. I will now explain what our aim is. Up to now, by taking this legislative initiative and this regulation from our circular, if the employer had to make contributions or not accepted the SG&As from the system, it was the new one, the employer had to owe it, and then, in practice, the obligation to pay contributions to his employees, since the system did not accept the SG&A. So the people were left uncovered and uninsured, without to blame. What we have done now, and on the occasion of the extrajudicial compromise procedure, is to accept the unsubs, even if the employer was due and to regulate his debts in the system. So only positively would I expect you to see that the regulation is in place. Because it was our aim that there should be uniform regulation and management by all the ECA systems in each case of debt, that all debtors should be able to join the extrajudicial system of debt regulation. I think you should be interested in this, for those who, over the years, have been in this trap of crisis and have not been able to meet basic obligations, because, as I have said, the contributions of the free traders have been too high. At the moment, while it was 27% at around 200 euros on average, the contribution has reached 70% and over 70%. I think the average is at 80% for those free professionals who pay up to 200 euros. It is also achieved by this regulation, to restore the rights of workers, because they lacked the opportunity, as you know, to go to the OAS because they did not have a job relationship solved. They were insecure, they didn't have health and medical care services. They have her, because they also have insurance capacity that way. It improves the possibility of collecting insurance contributions through the APRC, which is now a process for all, even for seafarers, and more easily controls to portray good insurance history, so that we can finally have a full picture of the insurance history of each insured person, so that we can quickly remove pensions. That was our pursuit, and I think it is achieved. I don't know why you object to this arrangement. If you want, in particular, to explain that, in order to take advantage of this possibility. It's positive for everyone. It is not negative as you imply in your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u42	Thank you very much the Minister. Mr Katsotis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I do not think you have the specific document I read to you in mind. This document has exactly the opposite effect to what you say. This document in which the administration of the EFCA invites its branches to comply, says that if it does not pay insurance contributions for the last month of employment, the worker has no insurance. Tell me, will the worker be punished? You're putting the blame on the weak link? Can the worker go demand or go do the complaint to the FBI? And do it, if the employer doesn't pay the contributions, he won't have insurance, Minister. You say the opposite of what the document says today. We invite you to see the document better than your partner tells you now and correct it. Because we have too many workers who, after this document, are uninsured, do not have the right to health, to the medicine and will have a serious problem in their pensions, because insurance days are not counted, because the uncertainties are not accepted or are not taken for control by the APRC, in order to ensure that the store is in fact employed for so many days, so many months, with such wages and so many insurance contributions. So this document has the opposite effect to what you said, Mr Minister, and that is what we want, what you said, that the worker does not have the responsibility, that the insurance days with the unsubsidized state be certified, that the unsecured days with the unsubsidized state be confirmed and that the contributions from the employer should be sought, as has been done so far. For years now this thing has been happening, Minister. You are now changing it and putting your responsibility on the insured person, leaving him uninsured, and it is butter on every employer's bread, not paying for the last month and having uninsured workers. It will have tragic consequences for a lot of people. That is why we ask you to change the document, with the responsibility of the company to secure the worker and that there is no responsibility for the worker to remain uninsured.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u44	Thank you very much Mr Katsotis. Please, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u45	Mr Katsotis, I understand that we need to discuss this very closely, to understand the way in which what we have introduced, on my regulatory initiative, because what is happening, is to collect the RDFs allocated, when the employer pays the last, at least a debt.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u46	What if he doesn't?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u47	I'll tell you what if he doesn't. What has happened so far is it has to pay all the debts, otherwise the system did not receive the RDP, so it was not collected. For without LPIS the employee contribution is not collected. Not collected. This is the institutionalised procedure. Without an unsub, you're not collecting anything. So what you're talking about to prevent, we didn't prevent it before. Now we're preventing it, with the possibility of having an unsub. The non-payment of the SDR always involves all the risks under the Public Revenue Receipt Code for the one who does not pay. The law has not abolished the employer's obligations. But assuming that an undertaking owes EUR 100,000 old debts, it should have been in twelve instalments - because this is a fixed arrangement - to give close to EUR 8,333 per month. Now he can pay the previous dose. And if one does a ratio, about, the previous monthly debt would be 3,000 euros. It can therefore pay this debt and it can issue an APR for employees. That is what we are doing, seeking to bring a balance to good businessmen, of course, seems to be, because the poor man who is not going to get away with anything. It will be prosecuted through the system, as always. But our question is to accept that - as you were saying - the crisis has destroyed small and medium-sized enterprises, small and medium-sized enterprises, small and medium-sized enterprises and we need to take care of that. How do we mean to do it? We say that this is one way to better manage the disastrous consequences of this crisis for the small and medium-sized one. The stores have been destroyed, they're closed. They're full of debts and all these people have fallen into strangulation. So we are saying that this possibility - and that is what we have done - is that workers can have insurance cover and that the employer himself is in a way that makes it easier for him to enter into the extrajudicial compromise, with the concentration of all debts being able to redeem himself and be able to come to a better situation. I think that this regulation has adopted the whole of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. I think that the small and medium-sized enterprises have accepted it, but the workers, again, are benefiting from it, because we had the system that was in place, that is, the employers did not solve the contract of employment with the worker, but they had him out there hostage and without insurance. This has resulted in everyone, the poor, sitting there to see when it will be paid. They were begging to fire them many times to get unemployment benefits. You know the situation. They were being held hostage. They didn't fire them or pay them, so they went on in a situation. There are despite many problems in the market, which we have to deal with. I think that this regulation leads in a positive direction to a solution. It does not, however, reverse our constant pursuits, to protect labour rights better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u49	Mr President, could I say something?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u50	You're welcome, Mr. Katsotis. It's a sensitive issue. But I would ask you to be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u51	The question is whether it is possible to deal with the matter and I ask you again, if the employer has not paid for the last month, what will the consequences for the worker be? You didn't answer that. Also, why should the system not accept the unsub and afterward does the ECA do what any insurance institution has always done to claim insurance contributions from the company for the worker who has been employed? These are issues, Minister, which the labour movement has always put forward, so that the worker can guarantee his insurance. I say to you today, with this document, that you are doing the opposite. Small and medium-sized enterprises may not insure workers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u52	Mr Katsotis, thank you very much. I think the Minister has understood that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u53	There may be what you say, that there are dose arrangements, but that is where we must ensure workers' insurance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u54	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u55	Mr Katsotis, I'm not changing my words. Our aim is not to facilitate tax evasion. No one is exempted from these obligations. On the contrary, I say it again, the system itself since 2013 by ministerial decision the IKA has exempted employers from the obligation to pay an APR. We lost the booze. This obligation did not appear anywhere, nor was it recorded or proven. You're experienced in trade union matters at least. He didn't appear with an RFS and no one could prove he was working at the time. This was the case and no one knew what was happening on the market, just as no one knew what was going on and the debts of contributions. So that was no help in this situation before. Nor does such a conclusion emerge anywhere, suggesting that the employer saves the contributions he has to make. They continue to run as debts, they are interest-bearers, they charge and they have every interests of every businessman to clean it up, the one who, in fact, did not choose to be a bad employer, but are too many small- and medium-sized people. I think you see it, too. And in the media section of your party, I imagine that you have such a picture, that it was the situation dramatically and that these consequences for a lot of people remain. We're helping in this direction. I think that, in discussions and in close proximity, I will give you all the arguments in a better and more convincing way to make positive use of them, as we do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, you have been distributed the minutes of the sittings of Thursday 18 January 2018, Friday 19 January 2018, Monday 22 January 2018, Wednesday 24 January 2018, Thursday 25 January 2018, Friday 26 January 2018, Monday 29 January 2018, Wednesday 31 January 2018 and Thursday 1 February 2018, and the House is asking if it validates them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u57	The minutes of Thursday 18 January 2018, Friday 19 January 2018, Monday 22 January 2018, Wednesday 24 January 2018, Thursday 25 January 2018, Friday 26 January 2018, Monday 29 January 2018, Wednesday 31 January 2018 and Thursday 1 February 2018 were validated. We move to the tenth Question No 1328/16-3-2018 on the second question of the President of the Greek Parliament, Mr Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Scientific documentation of a Ministerial Decision on a reduction of the disability rate for people in the range of autism". Mr. Saridis, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u58	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the question is very simple. It's a recent ministerial decision, under FEC number 4591/27-12-2017, where you determined as factors for determining autism the intelligence, functionality and age. The question is very simple, Minister. In what scientific data, what scientific study did you rely on and make this decision? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u59	Thank you very much, Mr Saridis. Mr. Petersburg, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u60	Mr Saridis, it is the Special Scientific Committee that has always been in force which proposes the revision and replacement of the list of Disabled Persons concerned. The single disability rate table shall be defined by the relevant findings of doctors of medical schools and doctors of the special body of doctors of health committees. They are medical professors of medical schools who are specialists for the disease being examined, are not irrelevant to the illness considered and there is also a representative of the RESEMA, the representatives of the Special Confederacy of Persons with Disabilities. All of these unanimously agreed on this enlargement, which I said in my previous reply, to increase, to triple the disabilities in the relevant table, especially for autism. According to this categorisation, in cases of patients diagnosed with autistic spectrum disorder or diffuse growth disorder or autism or as it is called, Asperger syndrome, and have normal intelligence and higher degrees - because it does not mean that people with autism have no intelligence, may have much higher than others without autism - the disability rate is determined at 50% to 60%. For all other categories, the minimum disability rates are set at 67% and above. Therefore, here with the lowest functionality the disability can be determined from 67% to 80%. Therefore, the crisis as to whether it is light, moderate or severely deficient is what it determines whether the disability will be 67% with 80% or over 80%. Because it could be over 80% if we have extreme cases of such mentally delayed symptoms. The rates of frequently responding borderlines, such as epilepsy, are added to the disability rate. In other words, this condition may increase beyond this if there are other effects. In any case, as I have said before, this review shall be carried out in the institutionalised way provided for the functioning of the Special Scientific Committee. I have nothing more to tell you about that and I'm not a doctor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u61	Thank you very much to the Minister. Please, Mr Saridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u62	Mr President, thank you very much. Minister, because people see us as well, they see us as parents of children with autism, they hear us citizens right now, they hear us, too, people who have autism and those who care for them, should you reconsider your answer? Here we have a reduction in the percentage, from 67% to 67% below, we are abolishing the allowance to people in the range of autism. The reason why you have reduced the rate, Minister, I understand it, you know it, but unfortunately Greek citizens also know it. Don't hide. The numbers just, Minister, don't come out. In Greece 2011-2018, only the numbers, Minister, are prosperous, and unfortunately people are not the ones who prosper. When you took the measures, Minister, the Greek Government had taken countermeasures. At the moment we have a reduction in the percentages of people in the range of autism. What steps as a counterweight to this reduction will the Greek Government take to help these people to survive? What criteria of the Scientific Committee was that it considers that many of these people can be socially and professionally integrated into society? I would also like, if it is within your capabilities, to submit the study to the Minutes of the House, so that we too can take note of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr. Saridis. Minister, please, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u64	Mr. Saridis, the film "The Man of the Rain" had a special sense to me if you remember it. Dustin Hoffman was acting as autistic and was a man particularly high-performance of abilities and intelligence. Indeed, many people suffering from Savad’s syndrome, autistic individuals, have excellent abilities. This does not mean, of course, that they do not need protection at all. The case, however, which I mention - extremely touching for me at the time - shows that we must approach these issues, with a sensitivity on the part of the person who is suffering, not with our own intake for the inability of the other person because that is where we are in danger of suffering other things. If we see the man without his skills, but we see him as a sufferer, because he's not like us, other things happen, as we know from history. So we're talking. Let's not take out a general dictionary that whoever isn't like us is not capable. Of course - and I repeat - we should see these cases with particular sensitivity. It's a very special case in medical data for specialists and not for me. There is a special scientific committee. It is one of the issues that concerns me and, indeed, it will also be a particular subject of this committee' s next meeting, to see in the most good way the accuracy of the compliance of the disease in each case. We will work on this systematically, but in this period and at this stage we have incorporated the autism, with all the relevant subcategories that can be manifested, into the disease that is part of the protection of all this spectrum. I told you it's not easy to see the percentage, to create more than 80% disability or 67% with 80%. It's hard because there's no hand missing or two legs missing. There are other measurements that need to be done there too, in fact, I will be in the direction I give the special scientific committee, encouraging better display in favour of the sufferer, in favour of the one who has this specificity, to give with interest the best solution for him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u65	Thank you very much to the Minister. Next is the eleventh Question No 1366/20-3-2018, on the second question of the New Democracy MP, Mr. Vassiliou Yoyakas, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: ‘Supply of pensions and allowances due to insurance contributions’. Mr. Yoyaka, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u66	Minister, this is a well-known matter for you. There are our fellow citizens who have completed and paid more years of insurance than they are required to have a pension right, which is old, above the pension threshold or our fellow citizens with disability problems in order to justify a disability pension. In some cases they are both: and the elderly and with serious disability, from 67% to over. These people, Minister, in recent difficult years have not been able to pay insurance contributions, because they have had business activity in a market that has collapsed, or because their health has deteriorated, so that they are incapable of working. They were therefore found to have insurance debts, which were even increased by either incremental or hospitalisation costs which did not cover their fund. That is why pensions are not excluded, Minister. Insurance contributions are the only reason why provision is excluded and benefits for uninsured over-ages. Questions are therefore specific. We would like you to tell us your position as well about the proposals that have been made at times and to the Citizens' Counselor and other bodies, with a view to enabling these people of ours to receive pensions or benefits. You must also tell us whether you are planning and when you are going to go to legislation, so that pension can be granted in proportion to the time paid, but also to receive pre-school allowances for those who are now deprived of the benefits only because they owe insurance contributions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Anastasios Petropoulos, Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, has the floor for his protagonist.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u68	Mr Yoyaka, according to evidence from the CRL, which you have invoked for other reasons sometimes, we have debts of 31.2 billion managed by the CRL. The 27.70,000,000 of them were created as debts before 2015, which is 88.7%. And after 2015 there are only 807 million debts, i.e. 2.6% of the debts. So let us be optimistic about this good picture after 2015. And we must also be optimistic about the debts before 2015. Our efforts with the extrajudicial compromises tend to be. It will not be entirely enough for this initiative to resolve all these issues. We know that in advance. The main aim of this procedure is to reopen and restructure the business, rather than to repay the debts due. But with the development we have, in at least a few months of implementation of this process, we have a spectacularly better result than the Law Trees, which had only been able to enter the resolution process. Now we have thousands of businesses and I am sure that we will achieve better results for a world that I have anticipated a solution to this issue. And we haven't yet valued the case of unlucky and unlucky bankruptcys, where we haven't yet had reliable statistical samples to see what we're going to achieve in this. If, however, we go to a generalisation now of reducing the time of insurance at the same time as reducing pensions, there is a risk. I do not exclude it from doing so, subject to certain conditions. I have said that I am interested in this, and we see this as a government, but in cases where this is the case, and it cannot be done differently for a person who has already shut down his activity, there is no possibility of it regaining, and the causes of the crisis were indeed the reason for his indebtedness from the social security system. In this sense, however, our government is planning political intervention on matters. I will say here - and it is important to say this and to prove that what I am saying is that in our immediate initiatives it will be the deletion of insurance debts to persons enrolled in the OGA, at times when the OGA was only a provincial body, which did not in fact have agricultural, veterinary or fishing employment, but because they would have been provided with benefits, they had never been able to pay contributions. People with disabilities have been found, people who could never really have such an activity, with great debts. This was the old system that created debtors, without ever thinking, Mr President, that the OGA was an innovative vehicle and then received contributions from people with disabilities, mental disabilities, etc. We are asking - the system, not me - debts of 30, 40, 50 thousand and people have been made redundant. And society says "Are you asking for money from the one who could never work?" That was the system that existed. I shall now proceed immediately to dealing with this matter. If legislation is needed, I imagine you will support it. I do not think it will be necessary to legislate at all. It is a reasonable solution that we must give. Such problems will be solved, and these people will be given the benefit of the prostitutional system. Such problems will be solved. And I keep for the next period of management of these problems by our government the solution to these cases, but they also want a study, so that we do not generalise a tendency to avoid insurance under such a pretext. Because you have announced, a little - very much, and the freedom of someone to be insured or not to be insured, and I fear that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u69	Thank you very much to the Minister. Mr. Yoyaka, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u70	Minister, with all due respect, other words to be loved! However, at the end of the day your position was in a positive direction. Of course, however, it needs a direct solution. They're human. You are three years of government and we must not stand up to what happened until 2015 and what is happening today. Society thought you'd do better than that. That's not what happened, of course. However, we have a great obligation to stand up to these people. Minister, we have in front of us what I have mentioned, a serious social problem, which, if we leave it to his fate, is the same logic of social security, which exists to ensure the minimum dignity of our fellow people who are without income at an advanced age or who suffer from a serious illness. Social security exists to protect human dignity and not to punish it, especially when these people are not battered. At some point and towards the end of their business they were unable to fulfil their obligations as insured persons, with objective elements. And such a case, thanks to which I started looking for the subject, is this: a compatriot of mine, seventy-three years old, with thirty-two years paid contributions and a 98% disability on life expectancy, because of blindness, when he submitted his pension papers, told him that he can't take because he owes EUR 93 000. A large part of this amount is increments from hospitals too. Another sixty-nine-year-old insured person with more than 12,000 aliases in OIE and IKA has paid contributions for years far more than they need to have a right to pension. Right now he can't take it because he owes a little more than 50,000 euros. Reports of such cases to the Citizens' Counselor and elsewhere have been dozens in recent years. That is why, Minister, urgent legislative intervention is urgently needed and in two directions. Where the age limit has been reached and where insurance contributions have been paid for such a time as to establish a pension entitlement, a pension shall be granted by calculating only that time and the time for which the insurance contributions are due. It must also be possible to grant disability benefits or also a solidarity allowance for uninsured over-ages to our fellow citizens who, while meeting the other conditions, do not receive a pension solely because they have to pay insurance contributions relating to time beyond the required entitlement to a pension. In short, Minister, there are solutions. They've been proposed and you know them. I would like to say that at the last point in your position, you have shown an understanding on this issue and I hope, and I hope, that there will be a direct legislative solution so that these fellow citizens too can receive a pension of this kind which gives them the right to life, the right to follow the difficult course that we all have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. Yoyaka. The Minister has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u72	Thank you. I have not omitted to say it on several occasions. I also think that, in a question by the SYRIZA Member, I said that those who have debts and are not entitled to a pension should not be deprived of the benefit if the other conditions are met. I have said that, and that is already on the way. It is a matter that we are managing to solve immediately. In the same direction is the solution that I told you before about the actual disability sufferers, but who are obligors of the OGA because they have once gone to the Prospective OGA and have been forgotten in the rewarding OGA, due to contributions and payments made by debtors instead of protected ones. That's what we're going to do. We're already sorting it out. We are in that sense. With regard to the thoughts you have put forward, Mr Yoyakas, as to whether you should pay someone who is really weak, I think I have also mentioned this in Parliament that it is a matter that we are considering. It is, however, an issue which forms part of the whole approach to social security issues, which, as you know, as a budget expenditure committed by the previous governments, does not exceed 16.2% of GDP, it also presupposes an agreement with the lenders that this is what we have to do. We have already raised political thoughts and plans in this direction and will do so. If we do not succeed in the next period within the year, we will certainly achieve it after August 2018 that we will be done with this dependence. It makes sense. But it will be done in terms of the actual examination of all cases of what is in this procedure. Because the announcement of the Chief of Officer's Representation, that everyone will manage their insurance business as they wish, must not make us careless. Because social security means being compulsory for all and redistributive. If we open the door in a general and vague way that everyone will receive the pensions corresponding to their contributions, then social security is over. This cannot happen and we will not support it. This is a serious issue which is a prerequisite for us to examine all such cases and in this context we have considered how to deal with it. And we will see it, but in real situations like this, where we really need to prosecute and take care of such cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u73	Thank you very much to the Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after taking part in the educational programme: "The Democracy Workshop" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-one students and students and two teachers - attendants of the Paschali Schools. The House welcomes them. We move to the thirteenth third, with number 1361/20-3-2018, a topical question by MP II Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: 'Repeal of Article 12 of Law No.4387/2016 and amendments of the Law of the Ministry of Finance'. Mr Katsotis has the floor for his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr President. You see No.4387/2016 it employs Parliament many times with questions from all sides. It is a law that we had described as 'loving', which brought up - down for all pensioners, but also for workers, with large reductions in pensions, with large increases in age limits and, of course, with large reductions in whatever benefits had been introduced. In a more tragic situation the widow’s pension beneficiaries were found to be worsened by all the conditions for awarding pensions, such as: It was reduced from 70% to 50% the pension of the deceased. A age limit has been introduced, resulting in the abolition of the right to a pension, leaving unprotected those in this ill position. Retirement condition was abolished as a result of death, in force up to 12-5-2016, subject to a thousand five hundred working days of which three hundred in pre-death five years. Article 12 states that in order to qualify for a pension due to the death of the insured member, the deceased must have been entitled to an old age or incapacity pension of four thousand five hundred days of work, that is to say, in order to qualify for a pension due to the death of the insured member, or a thousand five hundred of which six hundred in five years before death, from three hundred who were. The demands, Mr Minister, which dominate the mobilisation of pensioners and workers are as follows: The pension for the death to return to 70% of the pension received or intended to be paid without any interruption thereafter. Reinstate the condition of retirement due to death, valid until 12 March 2016 with a thousand five hundred working days of insurance of which three hundred in five years prior to death. You understand in times of crisis with great unemployment this regulation has brought many people to a bad position. And if only the beneficiary of the deceased's pension is a minor child, don't give 1/4 or 25%, but 70% of the deceased's pension. Also, if the child is incapable before twenty-four and before the death of his parent, if he is the sole beneficiary, the pension will be 70% of the pension of the deceased and 1/4 or 25% will not be paid. A pension may also be entitled to a minor child who will be incapable after the death of his parent, without interruption after eighteen or twenty-four. The pension threshold should be EUR 486, i.e. the old minimum pension which also covered the case of death pensions. The surviving husband constantly receives the pension of the deceased if he is unemployed. You ask, Minister, if you intend to abolish this article, Article 12 of Law No4387/2016, and reintroduce the arrangements before him, satisfying the legitimate demands of the beneficiaries for the reimbursement of these pensions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u75	Thank you very much, Mr Katsotis. Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u76	Mr Katsotis, the provisions of L.4387 also have favourable aspects, which we must not silence. Pensions for each child were 20%, increased to 25%, and 100% of the pension is transferred to a family with one woman and two children, while 70% were before. I mean, if it was a woman with a child, she'd get 70 percent, and now she gets 75% and 100%, if it's two kids. Since the diverse provisions in various legislations on widow's pensions have set different limits, it is a matter that we resolve with the relevant regulation which we will finalise in the next few months for all the insured persons and we will put these provisions in each case, because they are not the same conditions. This limit is only for employees, for pensioners in IKA, it is not for all insured persons. So in the next period there will be regulation for all the insured persons, and I think that is where we will have a reason to discuss more specific issues. It is something that we are preparing and will see immediately - I believe - and next month at the latest in May. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u77	Thank you very much to the Minister. Mr Katsotis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u78	"As the people say, ask me May to eat a clover!"
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u79	Two months.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u80	Look, Minister, I don't know what the arrangements you see in L.4387/2016 are, but the whole of the people tells us that this law has brought down: it has led to the inconvenience of pensioners and especially that part that they say "death pensions". I read here a statement from Mrs Ahtsoglou that after August she will make changes to widow's pensions. You say a regulation in May, Mrs Ahtsioglu says in August. When are you going to make the changes to widow’s pensions? However, our question concerns the insured of the ECA. You're saying everybody's in the FBI now. In any case, are there any different cases in the other Funds that they had before? There are. We call it the lowest, Minister. The husband dies and the wife lives, and she gets 50% today. Its pension is, on the basis of the last amendment you have made, 360 euros. The age limits you have established remain. However, we are talking about those who have the age limits that from 70% they went to 50%, that is, this widow or widower will now receive 50% of the pension entitled to the widow. And if you recalculate the pension, then this pension will be reduced even further so far by recalculating it. It is well known that the pension of the deceased will be reduced in total, so the widow's own pension will be reduced. In other words, over 360 euros will hardly have a widow's pension. You have led, Minister, with these rules in Article 12, to a very bad position for all these people who have been in this tragic situation to lose their people, particularly those who are less than sixty-five years old, that is to say, in the fifty-fifth year, to say so. The widows have made a club, and many times they have protested both outside your ministry and here in the House, they have sent documents, they have had discussions with parties, etc., they have taken various steps to listen to them. They come out screaming and ask you to correct what you have included in L.4387/2016. We, of course, as a party, say that this law must be abolished and that is our objective through the struggles that are constantly being developed by both pensioners and workers. We are leading these struggles, that this law be overturned, because, Minister, you said earlier about the inadequacy of the New Democracy of Insurance. However, this law, there, leads to privatization. That leads the pillars of insurance and you as a party take the lead for the private professional funds, which will operate under the capitalisation system. Already, your forces in GFCM last night agreed with employers on a national occupational fund, which will have tragic consequences, of course, with the abolition of supplementary pensions. Because we know very well where the TAF has been led. See, since becoming a professional fund, what the workers themselves have suffered from the drug that the ancillary fund of the TAF have previously had, what the reductions have been made in their pensions and their benefits. This is going to happen with the professional funds. That is why we are vertically opposed and, of course, we urge you today to see the abolition of Article 12, reintroduce the lowest pension to EUR 486 for all pensioners and widows' pensions to have these arrangements, 70% before. Also, with regard to the four and a half thousand signs you want, Minister, of which six hundred must be in the last five years, it is a tragedy! It was three hundred and you did six hundred in a time of crisis! We think it's challenging. That's what I wanted to say and we're waiting for your answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr Katsotis. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u82	Mr Katsotis, if a child is deprived of both parents - because you said to increase his pension - I inform you that, whatever the children are, they receive 50% of the pension. If they are three children, they go to 150%, not just to 100% of the pension. So we've made the law, and it's one of the things I said. So there is a positive attitude, Mr.4387/2016, which you do not want to see. The first is that. Secondly, I see you have a hesitation to enlighten the working class for the suffering that awaits it from the policy announced by the New Democracy for Social Security. There is a lot of silence in this matter. It was said at the conference by the Chief of Officer's Reconciliation, and the day before yesterday he said it to an American magazine, "Newsmax," and I didn't see you pussy. You would have done a good job, if our government did, of course, and you would. There's nothing to be heard about here. I must tell you that there is no bilingualism from Mrs Ahtsoglu and from me, because what Mrs Ahtsoglu said is that we will see the overall intervention measures for widows' pensions, which are not relevant to the minimum levels that I have mentioned, for granting pensions. This is another issue, it is a different chapter. As regards what Mrs Ahtsoglou said, it is something that we have committed ourselves to and to the representatives of those who are in a widow's state, and we have said that after August we will see measures that will correct some things, because since May 2019 these cases will occur where some might fall in the event of non-insurement. However, I have to say to you - and I have to say it again many times - that we need to look at them carefully so that we can also manage these things fairly, because, if we went to this average solution, it is because it is the best limit in Europe. It is, in France, fifty-five years. I should like to say to you and list cases as age limits: Austria's legislation is thirty-five years old, Belgium is forty-five years old, that is to say, until that time it is retired. In Liechtenstein, forty-five years, in Germany, forty-five years, in Finland, fifty years, in Poland, fifty years, in Portugal, thirty-five years and so on. We have a limit that is the best possible in Europe. This, of course, is not something that is the end of history for us. We will always look at what we can do for the protection of people, because that is what we are interested in, always taking into account that of the three hundred ninety-one thousand forty-nine widow pension beneficiaries the twotwo-seven thousand, that is, 56% already receive an additional main pension. It is not everyone who is in the situation that they have no other income and I have not yet entered into the study of the case, where one may be entitled to a widow's pension, but also has an activity. Not everyone's in the same fate. We must and it is our duty - and I have said so many times too often - to cover the people we really have to protect, who have no other pension or work, and are suddenly in this situation. There is no way we can leave people uncovered in this case. There is no way we can leave uncovered those who have no possibility of protecting themselves. And we'll take a lot of measures on many levels. That's what Mrs Ahtsoglu said, and that's what will happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u83	Mr President, I would like to say something because I was caused by the State Secretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u84	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u85	Minister, because you have provoked me for the New Democracy, I must tell you that we do not differentiate you from the New Democracy, we do not judge you any differently, because you and the New Democracy have already taken the social character of insurance. Of course, the New Democracy is still going further. The JRC is in complete contrast with this line of the New Democracy, as with yours. He puts you across the street. You are enemies of social security. That is why we, through our struggles, call for a social security system which actually meets the needs of workers and pensioners in pensions and benefits such as that which will enable everyone to live decently.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u86	Thank you very much. Understood. The position of the Communist Party of Greece is understandable.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u87	Would you excuse me, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u88	Of course, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u89	The President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Kammenos, has great pleasure today and gives you a lot of time to express your love for the government and for the SYRIZA especially you love. But you still love New Democracy even more despite the objections that they are making - you have now raised. The same fate is SYRIZA and the New Democracy. So people can vote comfortably and New Democracy. There's no chestnut running, as you say!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u90	Is that what I said?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u91	Be well. You love us.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u92	We are not the logic of less evil.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u93	Thank you very much. To move on to the timely questions that are deleted. The second, with number 194/26-2018, a top-stage question by the Member of the Attica Parliament, Mr Mavroudi Voridis, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Delays in the process of issuing the new identities", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister, due to unsuccessful obligations. The ninth under No. 1326/16-3-2018 topical question by MP II Athens of the Independent Greeks Mr. Athanasios Papachristopoulos to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Police in the storage of VIP persons", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister, due to the unsettled obligations. The twelfth under number 1316/13-2018, a topical question by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMAR Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Increase in insecurity in areas of Patras", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister, due to unforeseen commitments. The sixth, with number 1286-12-3-2018, topical question of the Greek Parliamentary of Chania, the Radical Left Coalition, Mr Antonios Balomenakis, to the Minister of Home Affairs, on the subject: “Coverning gaps in the Fire Corps by participants of the competition 2011”, will not be discussed due to the Minister's impediment, due to unforeseen obligations. The eighteenth under number 1159/27-2-2018 topical question by MP Kilkis of the New Democracy Mr Georgios Georgios Georgiodas to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: ‘Problems in the operation of the T.A.’s Border Guard Division (T.F.) It will not be debated because of an impediment by the Minister, because of the commitments he has made. The 20th two, with number 1311/13-2018, a topical question for the second cycle of the Athens Parliamentary, New Democracy, Olga Kefaloyannis, to the Minister of Home Affairs, on the subject: "Extended crime in Athens", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister Mr. Toska, due to his miserable obligations. The 20th third under number 1229/5-3-2018 topical question by the Independent MEP 2, Efstathios (Stathia) Panagoulis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Criminality and all manner of attacks by sub-world people and fork rebels", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister Mr. Toska, due to misinterpretations. The fourth under number 1375/20-3-2018 topical question of the first cycle of the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Sahinides to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "They continue to remain unpaid," will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr.Evangelos Apostleos, due to a workload. The fourth question under number 139/26-3-2018, the second question of the Parliamentary Carditsa of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Chryssolou Katsavria - Siloropoulou, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "The upgrading of the Centre for Animal Genetic Resources Carditsa, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr.Evangelos Apostolos, due to a workload. The fifth under number 1405/27-2018, a top-level question by the Member of the Greek Communist Party MP, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the serious problems of the National Swimming Centre of Heraklion (ESAKI), will not be discussed as a result of a blockade by the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport Mr. Georgios Vassiliou. Cause: scheduled trip to Cyprus. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, thirty-four students and students, and two teachers attending the 7th Cesarean School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] We are in the process of recognizing what questions will not be answered by ministers, due to a job closure or other obligations, within the framework of parliamentary control. The first question with number 3672/21-2-2018 question of the circle of petitions by F' Vice President of the Parliament and MP Larissis of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Georgeos Lambroulis to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on the situation at the National Sports Centre (ESC) Larissa, will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports Mr. George Vassiliou. Cause: scheduled trip to Cyprus. The first, with number 1392/26-2018, topical question of the Second Cycle of MP Grevenes of the Radical Left Coalition, Christos Beyala, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Rehabilitation of the College of Labour Inspectors (ESC)", will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr.Happy Achtsioglou, due to unsettled commitments. The sixth question under number 1333/19-3-2018 of the second cycle of MP Grevenes of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Christos Beyalas to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: “Security with bachelorship to operators - drivers of agricultural machinery”, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr.Happiness Ahtsioglou, due to unsettled commitments. The second question under number 1395-26-3-2018, the second question of the Greek MP, Mr. Stavros Kalafatis, to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "The position of Greece in terms of the formation of the new Multiannual EU Financial Framework, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. George Karougalos, due to his absence abroad. The fifth, No. 1409/27-2018, topical question of the second question of the Greek Communist Party, Mr. Ioannis Delis, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: “Security of the right to work for workers with a “block” at the Society of Water and Landscaping of Thessaloniki S.A. (LAUGHING)Mr Panagiotis Skourletis will not be discussed as a result of a blockade by the Minister of the Interior, Mr Panagiotis Skourletis, on account of a government mission outside Attica. The second question under number 2692/17-1-2018 of the circle of petitions - questions by the MP of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Giokas to the Minister of the Interior on the subject: "Not in the destructive environment and excellent work of the HYTA Grammar", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of the Interior Mr. Panagiotis Skourletis, due to a government mission outside Attica. The fourth, with number 1330/19-3-2018, topical question of the Attica MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Panagiotis (Panou) Skouriakou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Serious complaints by workers of the National Theatre" will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Culture and Sports Mr. Lydia Konordos, due to the absence of Athens. The Fifteenth under No. 1329/16-2018 topical question by the Independent MEP Mr. Dimitrios Koukoutsis to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "Glory loans from the Turkish bank of Ziraat to the tobacco producers of Thrace", will not be discussed due to the absence of the Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Nicholas Kotzias. Also, the nineteenth under number 1150/26-2-2018 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Anthony Gregos to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "About the Greek National Minority of Skopje", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Nicholas Kotzias, due to the absence abroad. The seventeenth under number 1149/26-2-2018 topical question by MP 2 of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Ragos to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: “Knowledge of the para-state website became the unprecedented attack on the A.T. Cesarean’ will not be discussed. Also, the 20th question under number 1151/26-2-2018, on the subject: "Questions regarding the case of an agent based on the revelations of P. Kammenos", will not be discussed. The third, with number 1372/20-3-2018, timely question for the first cycle of the MP of the Democratic Integration PASOK - DIMAR Mr.MAR.Michael Jeleli to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The creation of three new toll stations on the road of Promahona - Serres - Port of Thessaloniki is disastrous for N. Serres", will not be discussed as a result of the inquiring MP. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. At this point we will be adjourning the sitting at 12 noon to enter the agenda for legislative work.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-three students and students and four educational attendants from the 1st Sparta Municipal School. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u95	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK A sole debate and a vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: ‘I Repeal of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and Endogenous Violence and Adaptation of Greek Legislation, II) Incorporation of 2005/214/JHA Framework Decision, as amended by Framework Decision 2009/299/JHA, on the application of the principle of mutual recognition of financial penalties and III) Other provisions of the competence of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights and other provisions.’ The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 22 March 2018 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting in principle, articles and amendments. Does the House agree with the basic suggestion?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u96	Parliament unanimously approves the Bureau's recommendation. Seven ministerial amendments have been tabled. The four have already been incorporated into the bill. There's three more left. One will be supported by the Minister in charge, Mr Kontonis and the other two will be brought by the relevant ministers to support them. Of the five amendments, when the Minister comes to the Step, he will say what he accepts or what he does not accept, so that you may have a picture. The entry will take place electronically, as soon as Mrs Aphrodite Staboulis takes the step, and she will be closed when Mrs Maria Antonio comes down from the Step. Before I summon Mrs Stavoulis, I will give the floor to the Minister, who has asked me to make a clarification on some of the publications posted on the Internet, on a subject within the bill and in his opinion wants you to know in advance what is true about it. Minister, is that about three minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u97	Yes, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, although I have explained in detail some questions and references from Mrs Kefalidou's colleague, on Article 30(3) of the bill concerning the permits of convicted detainees and the inability to obtain permission from a convicted person if his case is pending or has been decided by the courts that he is going to be issued, unfortunately for the second time within a period of eight hours of this general issue you are showing an extreme irresponsibility. And I say this categorically to the National Representation, not only because this matter has been exhausted in the committee responsible, but also because in the third debate that has taken place, precisely because the explanations which everyone has to say have been given and understood, I believe that it has been closed. Unfortunately, today, there have been statements by Mr Theocharopoulos - I think the 'Athensian and Macedonian Agency' - which characterised this regulation as a suspect, when all the necessary clarifications have been given. And from that moment on, and also journalistic circles, have linked it to the "happiness" - even though in democracies there is nothing left in the fate of the eight Turkish officers. This extreme irresponsibleness, which I very much welcome for two reasons, must be stopped: both because some people are not studying the legislative texts and are not being informed of what has already been said in the relevant committees, and because they have at least reverted irresponsible issues which have to do with the country's international position and the surrounding atmosphere of Greek-Turkish relations. I would like to say once again, ladies and gentlemen, and I hope it is the last time that I speak on this matter, that this provision refers to Article 55 of the Penal Code on regular permits and the conditions under which a prisoner may be sentenced to Greek prisons. Who have this right? Those who have been convicted by the country's criminal courts - you are laughing, Mr Vorides, but the situation is really laughing - they have served part of the sentence and are now entitled to permission. That's what Article 55 says. And what do we say? We say that those who are convicted of Greek prisons and who are unresolved of their case regarding extradition, or who have decided to extradition, cannot get permission, because we all understand it - I said it twice in committee - that one who is convicted of homicide in Greece and who is serving his sentence and who is wanted by another state for a similar offence with the first permission he will get will disappear. You all realize that when Greek justice has decided or is going to decide on extradition, the country will become an international resilience, as the extradition is suspended until the time of the extradition is done, because the Greek state will be in an unpleasant position to say "you know, I'm gone". That's what we're trying to fix. Instead of talking about suspicious provisions, we should also read the amended provisions and the provision that comes to Parliament. If we do not want these, let us read the explanatory statement. If we do not want to read the explanatory statement, let us read the minutes of the committee. And I say this to a colleague who has shown firmness in other bills, a colleague who has been differentiated from his party, both in the Pact and in the issues of gender identity, and in matters of mere proportionalness. However, I am telling you again in forty-eight hours: to involve these very critical issues which concern the Greek Government at the highest level with this rhetoric are very, ladies and gentlemen. I hope I don't have to take the floor another time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u98	Good, that's clear what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u99	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u100	Mr. Theocharopoulos, because your name has been mentioned, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u101	I think there has been a major issue which is most marked by the position of the Minister of State at the moment, who instead of attacking. As a government, instead of responding to the objections of counterpopulation, he goes out attacking a style that fights us. Look, first of all, you referred to irresponsibility. Responsibility is the attitude of a Member of the government majority who spoke about the exchange of the two Greek officers who are unfairly detained in Turkey with those who are protected by the rule of law here in our country. That's irresponsibility. You should have deleted Mr Katsiki from the parliamentary majority, as soon as he made these statements. No folding shall mitigate the unacceptableness of his statement. Mr. Kontonis, in relation to what you tolerate in your government - in the government majority I mean - the cynicism has its limits. Since you have referred to irresponsibility, irresponsibility is the government and is continuing on this issue. Because there have been connections on this issue, first of all - this is not an issue today. The rapporteur, Mrs Charas Kefalidou, has pointed this out to the relevant committees - and it is in the Minutes of the committees of Parliament - and it has emerged, as I have already said. In particular, we are in the position today to see that because of the hard opposition we have made to you on this subject you are forced to come here saying that it will not apply to the eight - you said so just a moment ago - and there is currently a constant debate on this issue. It is essentially forbidden, as you mentioned, in all cases pending a request for extradition in a third country. Firstly, you are suddenly telling us that those who are wanted by third countries, including Turkey, have less rights. Why? Why do you now choose to tighten the reservation?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u102	I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u103	No, I'm asking you another question. I'm asking you why you're choosing now. Do you have any evidence of ineffectiveness of existing practice? That is the first question. Secondly, we have told you that the new regulation is coming at a time when we want specific commitments that it will not be possible to make an amendment, a new regulation on the regulation for all eight. In particular...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u104	I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u105	You will listen, Mr. Contonis, and you will answer. You know, of course, that according to the papers, at the end of April, it expires in eighteen months.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u106	Have you counted them? Have they been out in the eighteen months?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u107	Haven't they come in the summer of 2016?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u108	No dialogue, Mr. Theocharopoulos. I'm not gonna ruin the meeting now. Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u109	In the summer of 2016 they had come. If we count well, the eighteenth month ends approximately in mid-April. So it ends and they will have the right to their permission. In fact, we read reports that the eight lawyers who arrived in our country say that they cannot be kept beyond eighteen months, beyond the end of April. On this, then, the major issue, which concerns the eight Turkish officers - because you know very well that the opposition I am making to you in person, Mr Konstantinos, and in our area is programmed, is not sterile - to commit here that it will be exercised, there will be the rule of law for the eight Turkish officers, and no one will be attempted to make a statement, but no clearing from your Government with both or in facilities of this kind, what is in our rule of law will be and when the eighteenth month is over, according to the arrangement there will be. And with regard to what you mentioned in relation to your regulation, I do not know if it applies to other cases, for example Kurds, what you're saying...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u110	Mr. Theocharopoulos, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u111	Make a commitment to this one, too. I would ask you to answer the questions and not attack every time we criticise you, and indeed, with arguments that are more or less relevant to the ANLEs.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u112	All right, well, we're closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u113	Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u114	Just a minute, Minister. Well, listen. It will give further clarification for two minutes, the Minister, and the matter is over and we will start the sitting, although, in my view, it was clear in his prototype. For two minutes, Minister, you have the floor and please not more and we close.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u115	Ladies and gentlemen, you have understood from the position of my fellow Member that he is in a difficult position than what he has said today in a public position. First of all, I spoke about irresponsible action within forty-eight hours. Therefore, with regard to what you said in the first part of your position, the government has been placed and said that no one can arbitrarily speak about these issues, whether exchanges or such things. It's irresponsible, too. I said it in my prototype. So you didn't have to say more. When the government says it, you don't have to talk about these matters. You're saying it out of a lot.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u116	When the government speaks, opposition speaks.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u117	Secondly, I replied to Mrs Kefalidou, Mr Colleague, and Mrs Kefalidou was kind enough to present to the committee a memorandum which I thank her for all your party's proposals in writing. I'm filing it. On this issue, because there had been sufficient clarifications in Mrs Kefalidou's memorandum, nothing has been mentioned and it is rightly not mentioned, because it had been clarified. Please, I'm tabling this in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u118	It was personal. You're wrong to testify, because we'll come back.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u119	Because you filed it, was it a private letter to me? At the hearing, you testify...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u120	That doesn't mean in the record we have...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u121	Well, don't fight about the letter now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u122	Thirdly, I have said again, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that the provision relates to a specific amendment to articles in the Penal Code of Penal Procedure for criminal judges. Why are you coming here and telling us to tell you, to commit, to tell you about the eight? Any issues raised by the government? No issue has been raised, Mr Theocharopoulos, by the government on this matter. In official statements I have made since my meeting with the Turkish Minister of Justice in Athens, I said that the decisions of the Supreme Court must be taken very seriously in the light of those who repeatedly request the extradition of the eight Turkish officers. Therefore, for the government this issue has been closed in the most official way in my own way before journalists, political editors, but also journalists from international media...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u123	Will he finally be held in the eighteenth month?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u124	Mr. Theocharopoulos, in the commonly called and now you're coming here for eighteen months.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u125	Answer whether you will commit!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u126	Have a seat. And you know...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u127	Calm down! Mr. Theocharopoulos, with the assent of the Minister, the phrase... Now, for a bill that exists, we fight in the morning! Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u128	Let me say it differently, Mr President. You've done this clever thing, and you've been telling us here for eighteen months! Why? Has an eighteen months been broken? Don't you know, Mr. Theocharopoulos, that these people are being held pursuant to an administrative decision? Don't you know that their detention is administrative? Why, then, are you connecting unparalleled things? The order refers to criminals convicted, and you tell us about administrative detention!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u129	Why don't you commit?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u130	So I tell you once again that this issue is governed by the rules, the Constitution and the existing legislation and that the Greek Government is not going to violate either the Constitution or the existing legislation. Therefore, do not squeeze open doors.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u131	All right, Minister. Mrs Kefalidou, I am right for a minute giving you the floor, please in your well-known mild and polite way, to finish the proceedings.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u132	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would just like to point out that the material given to Mr Kontonis was for ease, so that a bill with too many articles could also be more effective and we could be as helpful as possible in his work. From there on, I must tell you, Minister, that the current wording, as it is, does not prove the allegations you are saying today. I'll bring you a very simple example, so we can get along, if it is, to clarify it, if there's any need for recasting. I've told you before and you insist. I'm giving you an example. Kurds are illegally imprisoned and sentenced for illegal entry into three months' imprisonment and punishment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u133	What does that have to do with anything?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u134	If he can't buy his sentence, he's a prisoner. Yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u135	Yeah. So?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u136	An application for extradition from Turkey is pending against this Kurd. Does the provision that we are voting on today take on this case, yes or no? Clearly, because we are coming back precisely because the wording is not clear. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u137	We'll start the bill. Mr. Secretary, when you speak, you have the right to come back, as is Mrs. Kefalidou and Mr. Theocharopoulos. But let's start the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u138	Mr President, I would like to clarify this and I will only need thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u139	Here, you have the floor for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u140	Mrs Kefalidou, firstly I thank you and the committee for having tabled a memorandum on the facilitation of and the processing of provisions to which you have had questions or objections. I'm saying this one more time. In this memo you gave me, 'cause it was precisely that matter that had been adequately clarified...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u141	That's your interpretation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u142	But there is no, Mrs. Kefalidou.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u143	What does that mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u144	There is no need for the opposition to agree with the government, Minister. It's a different view of the Opposition. What can we do now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u145	What can I say? It's okay. You may have put it another way. However, I say again that this issue has nothing to do with prisoners under administrative detention. It has to do with Article 55 of the Penal Code, which talks about convicts. So, how else do I have to say it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u146	Good. You've said that twice.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u147	So those who have been sentenced by a criminal court are entering this process. How else can I tell you? It's not for the eight, and it's not about any chance. I told you in committee too, and I think you understood that. But now if you want to balance things.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u148	We're done. Mrs. Stuboulis is invited to the Step for 15 minutes. Don't forget that today is the Great Thursday of the Catholic Easter. Calm down! Peace memorial! Here you go, Mrs. Stuboulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today - even after all this preamble - in the Greek Parliament we ratify the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and domestic violence, signed in 2011 in Istanbul, entered into force with its ratification by the tenth country, Andorra, 2014 and was also signed by the European Union on 13 June 2017. The term "violence against women" means all acts of gender-based violence which cause physical, sexual, psychological or economic harm to women, as well as threats to such acts, forced or deprived of freedom in public or private life. Violence against women is a manifestation of historically unequal relations between women and men. It is a violation of human rights. And it's one of the most important social mechanisms for subjecting women. Violence against women means gender-based violence against a woman only because she is a woman or which disproportionately affects her. While the term "sex" means the socially structured roles, behaviours, activities and qualities that a society considers suitable for women and men. The term "Intra-family violence" means all acts of physical, sexual, psychological or economic violence that occur within the family or between former or current spouses or partners. Therefore, men and especially adolescents and boys can be victims of domestic violence. The acts of violence to which the Convention refers are: physical violence. Rape, identified as infiltration into another person's body by using any body organ or object, even if committed against current or former spouses or partners. Non-consensual acts of a sexual nature and the coercive to such acts with a third person. The forced marriage of an adult or child. The amputation of women's genetic organs, as well as incitement, compulsion or incitement to it. Forced abortion and forced sterilization. Sexual harassment. Psychological violence, like the unseen surveillance or harassment that entered into the case-law called'stalking'. The Convention makes particular reference to the obligation on the State authorities to refrain from any act of violence against women. The parties signatory to the Convention shall be obliged to take all necessary measures to prevent and punish violence against women or domestic violence, as well as to support and restore victims with a focus on their human rights. The measures shall apply without discrimination on the grounds of sex, gender, race, colour, language, religion, political or other beliefs, national or social origin, the connection with a national minority, property, genealogical origin, sexual orientation, gender identity, age, state of health, disability, family status, status of immigrant or refugee or other status of victims. In order to coordinate policies to prevent and combat all forms of violence mentioned, cooperation between government bodies, local authorities, human rights institutions and civil society is sought. Bodies responsible for collecting statistical data, preparing studies, monitoring and evaluation of policies implemented are hereby appointed. Prevention of violence against women is considered to be the promotion of changes in the patterns of behaviour of women and men and the elimination of prejudices or traditions based on the idea of inferiority of women. To this end, public awareness-raising campaigns are carried out and appropriate training materials are included at all levels of education. Appropriate training shall also be provided for professionals involved in the victims of such acts of violence and programmes shall also be drawn up aimed at the perpetrators. In addition, the protection of victims and of witnesses, health care and services which facilitate their rehabilitation, such as legal and psychological advice, financial assistance, housing, education, training, assistance in finding work, regardless of the victim's wish to prosecute or testify against the perpetrator. The operation for the entire 24-hour service of telephone lines for the provision of national territory assistance and shelters for their victims and children shall be established, which shall also be provided with psychosocial counselling, especially if they are victims of violence. The competent authorities may order, in situations of direct risk, the removal of the person from the residence of the victim, as well as the removal of his or her parental rights. Prosecuting physical, sexual violence, forced marriage and mutilation of female genitals is not based on the victim's incarceration. For any of the acts referred to in the Convention, culture, customs, religion, traditions and violations of them by the victim or the so-called 'price' cannot be used by the actor as an excuse. All victims of acts of violence forming the scope of the Convention shall be entitled to compensation from the perpetrators or even state compensation. They are also given free legal assistance, interpretation and consular support if needed. It is ensured that their residence is protected. Gender-based violence is taken into account in the granting of asylum or subsidiary protection and the re-promotion of victims of violence in any country could again be subject to gender-based violence, torture or degrading treatment. A group of experts named GREVIO, composed of 10 to 15 members, is hereby established as a monitoring mechanism for this implementation, taking into account gender, geographical distribution and multidisciplinary expertise. They have the possibility of on-the-spot checks and enjoy privileges and immunities. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe shall regularly assess the implementation of the Convention. As identified in one of the following articles, which are currently being voted on to ensure the uninterrupted implementation of the Convention, the body responsible for coordinating its implementation and the submission of the information collected in the GREVIO shall be the General Secretariat of Gender Equality. The other articles amend provisions of the Criminal Code to align themselves with the Convention, abolish the anachronistic article 399 which abolished the prosecution of a minor if marriage was effected. For the same reason, the provisions of Law 3500/2006 ‘intermediation and restrictive conditions’, as well as Law 3811/2009 ‘compensation’ and Law 2168/1993 ‘automation permits’, are amended so as not to be granted to offenders of domestic violence. The provisions of Law 3907/2006 and Law 4251/2014 on the protection of foreign victims of violence are also amended. The second part is incorporation of a framework decision concerning the principle of mutual recognition of financial penalties. It provides for recognition and enforcement by a Member State, a executing State, a penalty decision issued in another Member State, an issuing Member State. Conditions shall be laid down to ensure respect both in the decisions of the issuing State and in the national law of the executing State and in the rights of the perpetrator. The third part contains provisions relating to the upgrading of the staff of the Hellenic Office of the European Judicial Cooperation Unit, EUROJUST. It incorporates into the laws of the Ice Bay case law regarding the Code of Criminal Procedure. They improve the staff of the Court of Auditors, the National School of Justice and the Prosecutors of Corruption. They shall extend the pilot implementation of electronic surveillance. And they regulate the employment situation of employees who are abolished mortgages. They also ensure the funding of 50% of the student costs at the Open University for the acquisition of a first degree between twenty secondary school employees in booking shops annually. From the amendments tabled, I will refer to some, 1524 with a special number of 146 quite rightly assimilates the registration, schooling and graduation of foreign schools in Greece following the Greek curriculum of teaching by enrolling, graduating and graduating from Greek schools, as a precondition for receiving citizenship from children born or living the corresponding period in the country. It also allows naturalization to foreigners with 12 years of continuous and legal residence in Greece with all valid residence permits. Amendment No 1530/147 facilitates the implementation of the legislation on public mobility and Amendment No 1568/143 ensures the continuation of the operation of ‘COMPANY I’, and the upgrading of the public service communication network has been initiated with ‘REFERENCE II’. Finally, I should also like to comment on the parliamentary amendment, which we are co-signed to with Mrs Thalleritis and my colleagues. Balloon and Pratsol. It is intended to facilitate the staffing of Members', Members' and Commissioners' offices in the European Commission on the same conditions as had been in place so far, bypassing some time-consuming procedures of mobility legislation. The vote, therefore, with the broadest possible majority of Parliament's wings as well as of the implementing articles, other articles and amendments, will make our country's accession to those countries which prioritise the defence of women's rights as an integral part of human rights more urgent on the international scene. And that is why I call on you precisely in this vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mrs Stuboulis, for shortening time. Let me inform you that 20 colleagues have been written. And I think that's gonna be the number. Fat, if we continue without vacation, voices, etc., we can be done. So the rapporteurs, if they want, will also have the right to a few minutes of dentistry for three to four minutes. Mrs Antoniou, rapporteur of the New Democracy, is invited to Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating, in plenary, the bill of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, with which the Greek Parliament is called upon to ratify the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and domestic violence, signed on 11 May 2011 in Istanbul. That is why it is also known as the Istanbul Convention. That is why we are not really talking about today. It is really worth wondering, Minister, how such an important piece of legislation - and we have told you many of them - the debate of which began with the Prime Minister's speech at the first meeting of committees - 8 March, the International Women's Day - is downgraded by your own government and the Ministry, which has slapped in a lot of vague provisions. Instead of there being sufficient time to discuss the Istanbul Convention and to highlight some important innovations it introduces, the Government's interest in the Convention seems to have been limited to the Prime Minister's communication show, which, in the end, did not convince anyone. You see, the Prime Minister, going down from the seat, then, in his speech on Women's Day, chose to salute only SYRIZA's colleagues, ignoring the colleagues and the New Democracy and the other parties. In this equality it seems that Alexis Tsipras and his government believe. Now we're going to the bill, specifically the first part. Articles 1 to 5, which include, in addition to ratification, amendments to the Criminal Code and Law 3500/2006 to address domestic violence, as well as other provisions, in order to harmonise our national legislation in international conventions and positions of the European Court of Human Rights. Before entering the Istanbul Convention, however, I would like to briefly mention what preceded today's ratification, Minister. So you don't move the finger that we're late, because it's going to turn you around. As a New Democracy, we have taken the lead in the fight against domestic violence with Law 3500/2006, which even contains innovative regulations, since for the first time the provisions of the law were applied to permanent partners. That's what you're actually coming to fill in with the Clearing of Istanbul, isn't it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u152	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u153	No 'no'. Also, since 2009, the General Secretariat of Gender Equality has been implementing a national programme to prevent and combat violence against women. In the context of this programme, information, awareness of society and the protection of victims have been developed. Already there is a network of structures - SOS 15900, advisory centres, hostels - all over the country and providing psychosocial support, legal, advisory and hospitality to women who are victims of racial violence. And in September 2014, the then Secretary-General of Equality had asked the Legal Adviser of the State whether the Ministry of Interior as responsible for the development of gender equality policies had the power to set up an EDP to undertake the task of harmonising national law with the provisions of the Convention. In the meantime, the committee met informally with representatives of the Ministers for the Interior, Justice, Citizens' Protection, Foreign Affairs and of course with representatives of women's organisations. Unfortunately, we went to elections, the ones you caused. And I mention all this, Minister, because I have indeed seen an effort by your Government to seize all these efforts and policies that have been developed to combat violence against women. Irrespectively Slowly. So we have not reached anything in today's ratification, ladies and gentlemen. Ours is the first law to tackle domestic violence to a very large extent, even if it needs an update today. All the processes mentioned above have been carried out in our own government. And because you accused us, Minister, that we did not have time to bring the ratification of the contract, do a little self-criticism. You didn't make a government yesterday. You're almost three and a half years Minister, three and a half years in government. You don't understand? If your concern, ladies and gentlemen, was so great, you should bring it in 2015. So, stop this hypocrisy that you're the only ones aware of this issue. Before we look at the most important points of the Istanbul Convention, I would like to refer to some statistics from the report it made a few months ago, 15 November 2017, the European Parliament on the subject: Violence against women and the accession of the European Union to the Istanbul Convention. And that's disappointing. One in three has experienced significant physical or sexual violence since the age of 15. Fifty women lose their lives every week because of domestic violence, Minister. 75% of women have received sexual harassment in their professional life. The annual cost of racial violence in the European Union has been estimated to exceed EUR 225 billion. All this demonstrates the extent of violence against women throughout Europe. And for all this as a country, thankfully, we have taken important steps. We are now going to the Istanbul Convention. It consists of twelve chapters and eighty articles. It establishes an integrated legal framework for the prevention of violence, the protection of its victims and the cessation of impunity. In particular, it defines the forms of violence against women and places particular emphasis on the prevention and violence against women as gender-based violence. It links violence to gender equality and the need to protect women's human rights and recognises that violence against women is a systematic and widespread violation of human rights. In the Convention domestic violence is treated as a form of violence which particularly affects women, but without overlooking - and this must be noted - the victims of domestic violence can be both men, children and older. An important innovation in the contract is provided for in Article 66, which is the creation of a monitoring mechanism, GREVIO, an international expert group, which will monitor national implementation in all Member States. Innovative arrangements of the Convention, which introduce new offences and bring about similar amendments to our Criminal Code, are included in Article 34 of the Convention, which criminalises unseen monitoring or harassment, so-called'stalking', but also in Article 38 relating to female genital mutilation. It is particularly important that Article 42, which refers to so-called 'price crimes' and which ensures that the perpetrators can no longer invoke culture, customs, religion or so-called 'price' as an excuse for their actions. Like the provision in paragraph 3 of Article 339 of the Criminal Code, which is quite rightly abolished by Article 2 of the draft law. I would remind you that this provision provided for the non-criminal persecution or the cessation of this provision for the person who was less than 15 years old if he followed the victim's marriage. I wish I had more time to deal with other provisions in the Convention, but the way in which it is legislated, Minister, has unfortunately prevented me from tabling a number of other regulations. We are, of course, positive and we are voting in favour of the first part of the bill. In the second part of the bill, in Articles 6 to 23, the Council Framework Decision 2005-2014, as amended by the Framework Decision 2009/299 on the application of the principle of mutual recognition of financial penalties, is incorporated into the national legal order. The main objective of these provisions is the mutual recognition within the European Union of financial penalties, which facilitates the execution of penalties in another state, to which they have been imposed. This is a framework decision of the Council, which facilitates the citizens of the European Union, to claim their financial claims. We are positive and we are voting in favour of the relevant provisions of Part Two. And now we are going to the third part, to Articles 24 to 37, which contains fragmentary provisions of the Ministry of Justice, but which have been incorporated as ministerial amendments by other ministries, which have nothing to do with our current legislation. It is unacceptable, we have said so, your parliamentary practice. We have pointed this out to you in every way. But a voice of oxen in the wilderness. I shall refer briefly to some amendments and some amendments will be tabled by my colleagues. Article 24 amends Law 3663 on the Eurojust Judicial Cooperation Unit. In particular, a seat as an assistant to the national member, other than the deputy already in existence, is also established, which will henceforth be public prosecutors and both will be seconded to the seat of Eurojust in The Hague. This is a regulation which entails a substantial expenditure per year, about EUR 135 000, as the two prosecutors will be paid, in addition to the remuneration of their organic position, and the foreign service allowance and the related travel expenses. The country's previous spokesman at Eurojust, Minister, was inhabited four years from 2013 to 2017 and responded seriously and adequately to his duties, even though he was essentially alone. Really, has your need for institution been demonstrated by any authority or agency? Because the reason you invoke it seems strange to us. But you see, you're close to the logic "they exist", but not to the whole world. Article 25 provides for the secondment of prosecutors to the Directorate for the Response of Special Violence Crimes at the Headquarters of EULA and EEA in order to carry out - says - full-time tasks to remove the confidentiality of communications for national security purposes. And this provision, Minister, has not been consulted. Why is that? It seems that you do not trust either the Violence Special Crimes Directorate, the Headquarters of ELAS, or the NSA, as you put prosecutors in order to supervise and control by their presence the legality of their operational action. That is what you say in your explanatory statement. Have you noticed, Minister, something worthy of this service? In paragraph 4 of the same article, in which the felonies of illegal form are tried, we expect to see some results immediately, Minister. Don't stay in the talk one more time. You're used to us anyway in many words without result. As for paragraph 5 of that article, let us hope that these secondments to the Prosecutor of Corruption Crimes, which you refer to in this provision, will result in a way that avoids in the future errors such as those made in the 'NOVARTIS' case. Article 26 provides for the extension - secondment of three more TBR officials, with the exception of the provisions on mobility. That's probably where the layout shows me. In Article 27 you come to correct two laws that you themselves voted on, one two months ago and the second three months ago. The same goes for the amendments. You come and correct your own statutes. Minister, when discussing your own law, Law 4512/2018, which was passed two months ago for the Greek Stock Exchange and with which you abolished all the mortgages in the country overnight, we noted the serious legal, political and constitutional problems that would arise, among others, from the staff of the mortgage. Today, with this regulation that you are bringing, you are in fact confirming that you are always legislating quickly, in a rough and ideological manner. In Article 28, Minister, what you said three months ago. How original for your government, anyway! During the debate on Law 4509/2017 you said that the new process of consensus divorce before the notary would have reduced costs, but you are currently introducing a minimum fee for lawyers presenting, which certainly does not reduce costs. Article 29 and the provisions relating to the strengthening of the Court of Auditors' staff, but also to the pre-contractual monitoring of contracts concluded by the TEAD, we are not negative, as long as the pre-contractual audit does not lead to delays and delays. As for Article 30 and the grant of the penitentiary staff to the Greek university, which was also mentioned by SYRIZA's colleague, this is a welcome provision, but at least it is paradoxical to legislate on the student of penitentiaries when you cannot guarantee them their personal security. There are constant and unprecedented incidents of violence against penitentiary officials. Four days ago in Trikalon's prison, a prisoner was taken hostage by a prisoner who, with the threat of an improvised knife, held him hostage for quite an hour. The lieutenant escaped luck, Minister, with only one surface cut in the neck. This was done a week ago in Larissa Prison during a visit. Something similar was done with a penitentiary on March 9th in the third ward of Korydallos. A prisoner was threatened with a knife and beaten by three Albanians. Since the list of incidents of violence is not complete, Minister, and it is certainly not a take news, as some people have tried to present them, I submit in the Minutes the press releases of the Greek Penitentiary Staff Federation - March 23, 26, 14 March - with which you are invited to take initiatives to ensure their physical integrity and security, Minister. This is a major issue. [[At this point, the Member, Maria Antoniou, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will make a brief comment on paragraph 2 of the same article, which extends the institution of electronic prisoners' supervision for another year, the famous 'brake'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u154	And that's what you're closing up with, Mrs. Anthony.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u155	I shall conclude, Mr President. When we adopted the measure, I remember that you were 'in the bars'. Now you've been prolonging it for another year. No comment. In paragraph 3, you are bringing in a fragmentary arrangement for the authorisation of detainees, as has been said and discussed long before, the penitentiary code, while the penitentiary code has been filed and arrogant - has disappeared. This needs a lot of clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u156	Mrs. Antonio, you need to close down.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u157	Finally, with so many provisions you have added to Articles 6 to 37 and the amendments you have tabled, the title of today's bill has now lost meaning. You could well, Minister, call it "different provisions of responsibility of the Ministry of Justice and other Ministries" and rape the Treaty of Istanbul, which refers to the fight against violence against women and domestic violence, which obviously does not concern you at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u158	The reason for this is the special speaker from the Democratic Association, Mr. Charia Kefalidou.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the government, I imagine you are the only ones here who maintain an illusion of regularity. In a periphery of liquidity and concern, with all our national issues openly, with our neighbours reminiscent of the fact that "the bottom of the Aegean is full of the bodies of our grandparents" the interior of the country lives in alternating rates of fear, division, scandals, constructions, photographic notices for positions of general secretaries, you, the unrepentant addicts of a semi-permanent state of turmoil, think that this is how you manage to convince that you produce useful work for the country and at the same time feed politically the left-wing fans of your past. That's how someone can describe your strategic design in words. Where and where do you throw the political arena and no draft law with a strong social profile as a front, such as what we are discussing today in the fight against violence against women and domestic violence, in order to maintain your left profile, with strong social sensitivities. But even there you can't hold. Yourself betrays you and quietly smacks a lot of unbearable provisions, steps and promises, always selectively, into groups that you hope to either take on your side or squeeze them. So here. Ladies and gentlemen, in this beautiful atmosphere we are debating a bill - a station on women's movement and human rights. Minister, it is a pity that you are plundering every initiative with the mark of unacceptable legislation, which, however much as you are trying to impose as a custom in this Parliament, brings unreasonable provisions within every draft law - with particular preference to sanctions - in order to pass what you want wrongly, there will be voices identifying it, denounce it and show it. His cheap excuse "and you do the same", neither acquits you nor escapes you from losing credibility. The Istanbul Convention is ratified with a delay. It's too late with everyone's responsibility, but it's too late than ever. It is neither the time nor the issue of exhausting our controversies there. The huge issue of domestic violence has been working on the Greek state for many years. Efforts to deal with are not present. They've been starting for decades. The results of state interventions on this matter may not be sufficient. However, huge steps have been taken, mainly by changing the attitude of society itself and its behaviour. There is a legislative arsenal. It started since 2004. Violence against women is a phenomenon, unfortunately continuing, acid and unacceptable. It's diffuse in every society. There are thousands of expressions in every political and economic system. He does not know lines of wealth, race or culture. Victims and immortalities are everywhere, even where mind does not go to people above any suspicion. These are the sad, conclusions that have been drawn from the hearing of the bodies. It is a pity that we do not devote ourselves to today's debate solely to highlighting this problem and how to deal with it by the state. In your attempt to quietly pass the other provisions and amendments, you have sacrificed the central issue itself. Please return to that, with one question: How effective and how effective can everything provided for in the Convention be? The statistics that see the light of publicity are degrading. Victims, directly dependent on their perpetrator, are forced, even when they make the bold move to file a lawsuit, to return to the family home. They're in the horror. They don't have a psychological or financial opportunity to leave. And the big question remains: Are the provisions of the draft law sufficient to ensure, in practice, support for these people? Only four thousand cases a year have been recorded in the advisory centres. These women may be determined to break up. But they are incarcerated victims in the tissue of tolerance. They don't decide to leave, because they know very well that after three, six months of hospitality in shelters they'll be on the road, awkward. The legislative initiative to harmonize the Istanbul Convention cannot be regarded as complete. Our Criminal Code needs improvements and abolition of anachronistic provisions. However, it is perhaps the first complete binding text. So far, the official state has done that it has not seen and abstained from dealing with unacceptable behaviours. A demarcated legal framework for the prevention of violence, the protection of victims and the cessation of impunity is currently provided for. GREVIO, an international expert group to monitor the implementation of the Convention at national level, shall be set up. A characteristic of the Istanbul Convention - and that is not negligible at all - is that it largely puts its burden on prevention. The establishment of compulsory training for professionals involved in victims of violence and the implementation of treatment programmes for the perpetrators. It is worth mentioning separately Article 34 of the Convention. We have the creation of a new offence and for the first time criminalizes persistent persecution as sexual harassment, known as stalling. It is also important to abolish the inhuman and anachronistic provision of 339 of the Criminal Code to stop the criminal prosecution of a child under 15 if a marriage with the victim takes place. Do you know how many children with this change can win their future?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u160	Mrs. Kefalidou, I'm sorry for thirty seconds. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the "Research and we are discussing Governor Ioannis Kapodistrias", twenty-three students and students and two teachers from the 26th High School of Athens. Welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u161	Welcome to the adjournment, Mr President. However, there are serious deficits mainly in implementing the provisions of the bill and the changes that will be made to the provisions of the Criminal Code. In the deficits of this draft law, we must add what all those who work with mortals see. There are few people who are coming to want to change their behavior. The prosecutors at the moment cannot make the mediation they need so that the perpetrators can refer to structures and draw some conclusions and suggest them. More structures are needed for victims, more responsible treatment than the state and more effective cooperation with the police. Apart from any academic debate, the implementation of such a contract is neither a simple nor an easy matter. It remains a demand and a long-term demand for society and the scientific community. We have tabled better proposals and I will insist on the following: Article 3. It is necessary to strengthen and upgrade the institution of criminal mediation in cases of domestic violence. It should not be left to a pretext simply to avoid criminal liability and the case after being filed. Unfortunately, this is happening today. There must be an effective supervisory and monitoring mechanism for whether or not the victim complies with the terms of criminal mediation. Article 5(2): It is known that those of the perpetrators are following an advisory programme may be suspended. Most of them accept participation in this program to escape persecution. On the way they stop tracking and continue to violence. We have therefore proposed that a provision should be introduced into the law which stipulates that - I say this, Minister, which you do not follow - 'for domestic violence offences, if the perpetrator is sentenced to two years or more imprisonment, it is neither suspended nor sentenced to a penalty'. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the great step taken by the Istanbul Convention, it is not enough to eliminate the phenomenon. The key is in training, school education, from primary to university. We have a long way ahead of us until women have full equality in human and social rights. Movements of people with different cultures, often discriminated against women, unheard of of the Western world, bring us closer to the problem and invite us to take measures that will apply to all those living or staying, even temporarily in our country. But beyond that, let us not forget that the European woman, too, still suffers unacceptable discrimination, particularly in the workplace, but also in the social sphere. Ladies and gentlemen, how effective today's legislation will be, we will see it in the course of implementation. In such a critical social phenomenon, which alone we still have good reason to talk about it, we are ashamed of legislation, but it is not enough. We will be able to say that they are effective and not wishing for pure intentions when there is not a single woman who will be released with a black eye and the excuse will be that he "slapped at the door" or "slided in the stairs", nor a child who is shaking from fear of physical violence by his parent. Only then will we be able to say that we have succeeded as a society, to root out the monster of domestic violence that still holds well. I'd like my place to finish here! However, it has done well in a mastery manner - I admit - that the Minister must also have part 2 and part 3. I will not go into part 2 at all. It is the harmonisation of a framework decision with Greek legislation. But why do I have to talk about this in Part 3, where to say? The Minister himself said that 'in order to bring in amendments which ultimately did not evade it, he brought 9, he put Part 3 as other provisions. He admitted that they were irrelevant to each other, interventions either in the Criminal Code, or in the Penitentiary Code. So we will continue to insist. The problem of poor legacy is timeless. However, you who first denounced it as opposition, now, as a government, have become a routine for you. But you didn't realize that the seasons are no longer the same. It is a mockery - and I tell you straight away - to be in this Chamber today at a dilemma. Are we going to be serious about the Istanbul Convention, or are we going to have to talk about the other provisions and amendments which, in a normal parliament, would come as a separate draft law? Tons of ink, tons of national assurances have been spent on all these reforms that are never done, not even when they are so unscrupulous. The Greek people have been making a titanic effort in recent years to overcome the bad texts, to overcome and to correct chronic distortions. And you who never mean everything you proclaim, insist on your cobblestone tactics. Article 24: It concerns amendments to the Eurojust judicial cooperation unit. I insist on raising the matter, because here we have a decision that will be adopted on the proposal of the Minister of Justice, following a decision of the Supreme Judicial Council. We see here that there are interventions by the executive in court, and that is not the first time. In paragraph 1, we still do not understand why the alternate of the national member must definitely be younger in antiquity. Why wouldn't he be equal? Paragraph 2: The vulgar wording of the provision relating to the renewal of the four-year term refers essentially to the permanentisation of the original option. In other words, you divide the prosecutors into two categories: the chosen ones who will build a career at Eurojust's headquarters for five four years, twenty years, and the others who will be here and make very simple 'lanja'. It is annoyed by the government to gain more expertise and the opportunity to serve in a European judicial cooperation unit. Furthermore, we are unable to understand why in the new increased positions of a national member and alternates in Eurojust they should only be public prosecutors. The law in force provides that a judge may be appointed in that post. You explained to the committee, but they were unable to erase the suspicion that this was another concession of the Ministry to the Deputy Minister and former prosecutor, Mr Papaggiopoulou. Article 25, provisions relating to criminal justice. You are amending Article 3(2) of Law 2225/1994 on the removal of telecommunications and the jurisdiction is conferred on public prosecutors who, following a decision of the Supreme Court, are seconded with full and exclusive employment. Minister, nowhere is the duration of the secondment of these officials, which no one doubts have excellent service experience, nowhere is there a maximum time limit for service in this neural position with easy and direct access to data and information. Some, then, will be permanently installed there and build a career in this place.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u162	Mrs. Kefalidou, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u163	I'm gonna need one more minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u164	But only one.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u165	Good. We believe that, for reasons of principle, competence should not be transferred. We believe that the investigation should remain in the prosecutor's office. Paragraph 5: Behind a populist wording, you are allowing special experts to be seconded to the prosecutor of corruption crimes by way of derogation. So the government has decided to conquer the power it has not taken on its own, placing alongside its own man and other people in order to complete intervention in righteousness. Article 26. Derogation again, we have provisions on the mobility of employees. I'm going to Article 30. We're still waiting for the penitentiary code you've been holding in your drawers for years. Give us a binding timetable at last. I am not coming back to paragraph 3. What you have said so far has not been in agreement with us has not been able to give a clear answer about exactly what is going on. Minister, with drum impacts and majestics you brought on the day of the women's celebrations this emblematic piece of legislation distorted it with all other provisions. Any questions that were raised concerning the necessity or clarification of proposed provisions, we have received designations that do not honor, inexpensive irony and classical invoicing of scandals. In these last few days, you've been horrificly served. You're cuffing for every case and burying bad news.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u166	Mrs. Kefalidou, please, close now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u167	Yes, sir. I conclude by saying that your government is both clumsy and awkward and that is not left-wing. And because you're continuing with monstrous laws...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u168	Your Honor, have you heard what I told you or are you ignoring me? You've taken five more minutes. Please hang up now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u169	Immediately, Mr President. Because, for your monstrous legislation, you have your moral advantage and your badges as an engineer, as an engineer, I would like to remind you that zero has no sign. The Prime Minister will confirm that. Thank you very much for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u170	This doesn't get into the climate of tolerance. It's just that he's leaving your dentistry. Thirty seconds I interrupted you. Another tolerant for one-two minutes and another five. The reason is the special speaker of the Golden Dawn Mr Panagiotis Eliopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, Mr President. This draft law contains three parts, which are divided respectively into separate articles and sections. In the first part we have the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combat of Violence against Women and domestic violence and the adaptation of Greek legislation. Normally, this convention should, as all the conventions should normally come on its own, without the fact that, now, you have the tactics to put other unrelated articles and amendments. As we have stressed in committee, we should note that the integration of various issues into an article raises issues as to how they will be evaluated and voted on accordingly. In fact, we also have some very recent examples which, with the well-known practice that you complained about, you are entering into sanctions for very serious contracts. In Article 2, the limits of what can be regarded as a persistent pursuit or monitoring especially by means of a telecommunications or electronic instrument are widened. In practice, it will probably create more problems, since the terms 'persistent pursuit' or'monitoring' will each take them as they wish, resulting in unnecessary criminal persecution. With regard to Article 4, which contains amendments to various legislation to adapt to the contract provisions, we will focus on the protection of non-legislative foreigners and denounce an incident of domestic violence. So, under the pretext of protecting those who denounce incidents of domestic violence and are illegal in our own country, you are actually opening a window to mass legalisations, which will take place gradually. We therefore have a repetition of the corresponding protection given by L.4332/2015 for those who allegedly denounced racist crimes. We are opposed, because in practice this will act as a mechanism for the legitimisation of foreigners who live illegally in our country. So someone will go to make a complaint that, until it is investigated, see what has happened, enjoys protection from administrative deportation, etc. In the second part, basically, you have incorporated one bill into another. There is the creation of structures and mechanisms which effectively abolish national laws and lead to supranational police and similar prosecutions not only of crimes but also of opinion. Because in Article 7, in citing criminal offences in a perpetual position, there is crime with racist and xenophobic characteristics. We, of course, know very well how this is interpreted and where it is intended. It seeks to prosecute national and patriotic positions, to prosecute all positions and opinions contrary to the logic of the new order. As we had expressed our opposition to similar draft laws, we are doing so today. Article 24(3) provides for the provision of information and access to all types of criminal records, DNA records, etc. within the European Judicial Cooperation Unit. Therefore, the intended obligation of the head of Eurojust to obtain the approval of the Prosecutor of the Ice Arena when it is to transmit to international organisations or authorities in third countries responsible for investigations and prosecutions the information provided to Eurojust by the Greek competent authorities. We are opposed to such European, supranational structures and mechanisms that open up Halos' poles for persecution of citizens and violations of data. Such superpowers are contrary to us for reasons that relate both to the faith of the Greeks and to the natural tendency to combat any form of freedom. Indicative of the problem posed by the unification of various issues which are not related to each other in an article, as we pointed out at the beginning of our position, is Article 30. In an article on subsidisation at the Hellenic Open University of the detention stores, which does not raise a question, you are also setting other arrangements regarding the penitentiary code. What does students have to do with the Greek Open University of Penitentiary Staff on the condition that they are given regular leave to convicts? None. As far as the amendments made to Article 31 are concerned, you will again bring questions of citizenship. You're very sensitive to this. As we had expressed our opposition to L.4332/2015, in every attempt to salvage the national and social fabric of our country, in terms of the yield of Greek citizenship to foreigners, so we repeat today, for which we are clearly opposed. Our position is an unrelenting defence of the rules on the acquisition of citizenship, based on the law of blood. Could Mr Skourletis - who is not listening to me at the moment - put it in the next bill which, from what we have learned, will enable some eight hundred thousands of foreigners who permanently reside in Greece to acquire Greek citizenship in three years, from six current ones. In this bill that we have learned and not disproved by the government, you will ask questions as if we are in school to obtain these eight hundred thousands of foreigners - illegally - the Greek citizenship. Let us make it clear that the regulation of the paragraph that you define that for the relatives of the Northcontinent, Cyprus and from Istanbul and from Imprus and Tenededos who acquire Greek citizenship by naturalisation is not a precondition for the appointment or recruitment of the private sector to be completed one year after the acquisition of the relevant provisions of the staff code, it has nothing to do with your unacceptable plans for the acquisition of citizenship by foreigners. And it is something that we would of course support. Intra-family violence and an article on the financing of parties. Another unrelated article, Minister, for retaliatory purposes, says, against the banking requirements of 50% of state funding. And you have, for the proper functioning of the democratic culture. Our position on the financing of the parties has certainly been well known since the first day we entered the Greek Parliament. State funding should be given for the births of new Greeks. And as far as the proper functioning of the democratic culture is concerned, this did not concern you in 2013 when with a photographic provision and by closing six Members of the Golden Dawn in prison you cut the funding of the Golden Dawn. Without Golden Dawn, of course, the city works very well. It may have worked better without the Golden Dawn here to prove your scandals and what has happened all these years at the expense of the Greek people. Unfortunately, however, for you, despite the cut in funding, which we were the first to say applies to all parties, the Golden Dawn has a continuous rise. So at the time when the Greeks' homes are lost under your own legislation, these 'no house in a banker' with a button - and we see what happens every day outside the notary offices - at the same time, the parties will enjoy unequal treatment against the banks of 50% of funding. We need to highlight these, because I didn't hear anyone else point this out. And who would point it out when you're all in debt? The Greek people must listen to them and know how they will determine their intentions in the next elections for the people who steal them and those who cover them. Strict operation of the democratic culture and the New Democracy along with PASOK in previous years, apart from their fat funding, they also had donors. They had sponsors of "SIEMENS", "NOVARTIS" and other multinationals. We hear millions of people going to the parties' funds. However, it is also charged with some 400 million. And these are charged to the Greek people with the specific amendment that you are bringing and you are incomplete in the bill, of course, regardless of domestic violence. And to finish this, one is the solution: not unreserved. You could enter the offices of the parties, Mr. Ministers, you are here, and take everything from them instead of giving them 50% of state funding. But because you too owe the various mortgages of Koumoundouros and so on. And with your own loans, you don't dare do it. Because you too, with the so-called "ethical advantage" of the Left, are doing exactly the same and worse with what the systemist parties have done all the previous years. We, as the People's Association - Golden Dawn, consider, in order to return to domestic violence, that the family is the main cell, the fundamental unit of Greek society. So, given our opposition to domestic violence. Clearly, and we cannot be negative in that direction. But we have some remarks and thoughts. The Convention should always be applied in the fight against this violence, without evading its direction. With regard to Articles 59 and 60, which refer to the status of residence and gender-based asylum applications, we are clearly opposed. Under no circumstances should the protection in general from domestic violence become a vehicle to find refuge in our country illegally entering illegal illegal immigrants. There must be that framework and procedures that guarantee it. And, of course, as part of this convention, it should always be if the role of NGOs that seemingly support this whole logic is controlled, but they are, in practice, financed as instruments of foreign centres and forces. In any case, however, this important dimension should be recognised and stressed for us. The problem of the outbreak of violence against women and domestic violence in the societies of the European States began to take uncontrolled proportions where there was a sloppy turnout and integration into the local communities of Muslim illegal immigrants and where the multiple Muslim populations were involved, and in many cases, they also started to exceed the numbers of indigenous Europeans. Of course, no one mentioned that. These people don't respect the family. For you who are so sensitive to these issues, and especially to SYRIZA, who say about violence against women, these people do not give any value to women, whether inside or outside the family. We all know their intentions and intentions. The other parameter is about the ever more intense dissolution of the national and social fabric. When there are unemployment, when there are houses maintained by relatives and grandparents because pensions and benefits have been cut, when there are no values and standards for Greek society and therefore for the Greek family, then do not wonder where things have arrived. The important thing is, in addition to any tactics in the treatment of domestic violence or the development of theories and ideologies, above all, to support the Greek family in practice, to strengthen the multitude, to support the families who have unemployed, who have patients who have problems, to motivate Greek women to have children and to have a healthy and proper family. It is well known that we are the third oldest country in the European Union, even according to recent studies, and the first in sub-natality in Europe. So let's protect the Greek family. Let us strengthen the fundamental values of Orthodox faith and Hellenism against internationalist and anti-Greek ideologies. All this starts with education, all this starts with the main cell of society that is the family, which we do not protect by signing contracts. There is a legal framework. Of course, we will be voting in favour of the first part of the Convention. For everything else, we'll be placed in a relative position. But that's not the problem. It is not the problem that there is no relevant legislation and case law. The problem is, at the moment, the family is not based on its core. If we do not strengthen the family, no matter what we talk about here, whatever the law and testify, it will be a hole in the water. The Greek family is at the moment being plagued by too many factors, which should be discussed here. We have constantly stressed and said that there should be a meeting, Mr Voutsi, to discuss these problems of birth, family support, support for Greek mothers. We as a Greek Parliament for all this and while we see the Greek nation snatching, we have to do something before the situation becomes irreversible. We are at this stage of irreversible and we will have to correct it. I hope we do something. Otherwise this, like many other things, will be needed to correct a national government of the Golden Dawn, which I hope will come soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u172	Before giving you the floor, I will give Mr Skourleti the floor for a minute for a piece of legislation to be taken into account by the other Members who will follow. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, Mr President. I want to table a legislative improvement in Article 32. In particular, the words ‘e case’ shall be replaced by the words ‘e case’. On the occasion of taking the floor, I would like to refer to an amendment tabled by the PASOK colleagues, which concerns an issue which is related to the people who are serving in the public sector and the timing of the acquisition of citizenship. I believe that this amendment is in the right direction. I think that in another bill - I commit myself to that - we will see it more thoroughly. However, I think it is in the right direction.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u174	Mr. Synthrakis, special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u175	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government, along with the well-advertised Istanbul Convention on the fight against violence against women and domestic violence, has chosen to bring other provisions of the Ministry of Justice, by visiting the Convention - which in principle have a reactionary content - shows how hypocritical it is for the issues of dealing with violence against women and, at the same time, how lazy it is to think of smuggling other arrangements. With regard to the Istanbul Convention, which is the first part of the draft law, the whole of this convention is more proclamative. This is because, despite all the positive elements not only, they are not a clear guarantee of their implementation in practice, but they are, essentially, annulled by the European Union's overall position on the phenomenon of violence against women. It is also noteworthy that the contract omits any reference to the violence carried out by employers at the expense of working women, whether psychological and emotional or even physical in some cases or in the form of pressures and extortion, such as the threat of redundancies. And you know that the issue of redundancies, pressures and extortion against workers has taken the form of an avalanche. Not only do you avoid any conversation about the grim working conditions experienced by women, but the Minister makes statements of the press that while SYRIZA is in the government no pregnant will be fired. To those who have a weak memory to refresh them: First, the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union in which the dismissal of a pregnant worker from the Spanish company BANKIA is legitimate in 2013 in the context of collective redundancies. Second, the judgment of the single Court of Chania, which justified the employer's right to dismiss another worker in a pregnancy situation on the ground that the dismissal was made as a result of misconduct and not as a result of pregnancy. Thirdly, the dismissal of a trade unionist from SABOIDAKIS in Heraklion, Crete, who dared to be elected to the board of directors of the food and drink union. Fourthly, the workers who have been thrown into unemployment by Karypidis and now face sues, trabbouts from the new employer and state repression. Fifth, the SELECTA workers in Xanthi who, despite the extortion of the employer, decided to create a union, and today the judicial authorities are trying to cancel their decision. Sixth, the existing legal arsenal which the government maintains intact for pregnant substitute teachers with threatened pregnancy at risk of dismissal. This is the anti-galactic barbarism and the mockery of the European Union defended by SYRIZA and the other parties that drink water in the name of the European Union and capitalist development, on whose altar the needs of the workers are sacrificed, even any protection of motherhood. Which of the above issues are dealt with by the Istanbul Convention? None! And they are not treated because they are not included in the best practices of the European Union. It is not only the government's interest in combating violence against women, but also the European Union. We would remind the House of the report by the competent Commission of the European Parliament, which clearly aims to lay the foundations for future European legislation which has as its criterion the market, i.e. it will be guided by the logic of calculating the cost of violence and profit of limiting it. This is the stimulus of the European Union's interest in such a serious social issue that violates women's basic rights. Let us take a taste of the text of the Commission of the European Parliament: it considers that 'violence is an obstacle to women's full participation in the economy, in society, in politics and in cultural life, and that has serious economic consequences'. In addition, ‘it burdens the State and the capitalist employer to a large extent on health care costs, policing costs, legal costs and productivity loss’. More specifically, it estimates that ‘violence against women in 2011 cost 228 billion a year, of which 45 billion corresponds to the cost of public and public services, 24 billion lost economic production due to the phenomenon and 159 billion for physical and mental suffering’. Similarly, the reasoning according to which violence at the workplace is incomprehensible for employers, because her victims are getting more licenses and have low efficiency in their work. So co-government SYRIZA - ANEL and the rest of the parties are taking advantage of the existing problem of violence against women as a convenient field to show their sensitivity and interest in women and their human rights. But they are not saying about the violence of United States interventions, NATO, the European Union leading their women and children to leave the hell of the imperialist war to be found in the hell of refugee and traveling circuits. And here there is a great deal of hypocrisy from the government, which has taken the role of signifier of European and naval planning with the support of other parties. We are involved in the US competition bucket, NATO, the European Union with Russia, China and other regional players, such as Turkey, for energy sources and roads, which naturally all contribute to the spread of poverty, impoverishment, uprooting and refugee. In relation to the content of the contract, the position on how the issue is dealt with gives the preface to the contract, which states that violence against women is a manifestation of the historically unequal relations between women and men, which have led to ratification and discrimination against women by men and the blockade of the full progress of women. In our view, it reproduces feminist, neo-feminist perspectives that it considers as the primary cause of the inequality between the sexes the dominance of man to power. Without undermining issues of gender culture, clear discrimination against women cannot be tackled radically only in a legal way or limited manner by changing the behaviour of men. They cannot relieve it of economic and social coercion within the framework of class exploitation society. The prologue also recognises the structural nature of violence against women as a vital social mechanism through which women are forced into a lower position than men. In our view, the relationship between violence and women's inequality is completely reversed. It is shown that violence is the cause of discriminatory practices against women, in order to hide that it is a phenomenon found in the territory of exploitation relationships and social stereotypes, standards and perceptions of the conscience they create, cultivate and reproduce. For the Communist Party of Greece, the physical, verbal, psychological or any other form of violence suffered by women does not arise in a social vacuum. Reactive changes in the economy, society, individualism, competition, selfish lifestyle are reflected in interpersonal relations and family relations. Re-reactionist, anachronistic perceptions of the relationship between the sexes are reintroduced. This is reflected in the increase in rates of domestic violence, sexual harassment, sexual behavior at workplaces, phenomena and practices that violate women's fundamental rights, such as genital mutilation, forced sterilisation, abortion, marriages of minors. We are not underestimating the need to tackle them drastically and to combat them, but with full awareness that the source of hurricane discrimination against women is unequal, exploiting society. May the definition of domestic violence in Article 1 of the Convention include all acts of physical, sexual, psychological or economic violence within the family and, because of its scale, positive, but does not respond to what it is that produces violent behaviour and within the family. In our opinion, unemployment, employment insecurity, the generalization of flexible labour relations, the working hours - elastic for the couple, the stress for survival, the needs of the family, such as housing, feeding, electricity, the accounts, health care, education of children under the burden of taxation, limited free time, the lack of rest, the creative use of time between family members, which is confusing family life, and obviously the relationship between the two sexes. Marriage, as a legal form of cohabitation, is based on the regulation of the financial relations of family members - and it could not have been different to capitalism - and in this sense, they are an obstacle to affecting spouses to dismantle marriage, even in the case of domestic violence. The working and living conditions of women together with the absence of social services and family protection and support structures commit them to remain in violent social coexistence. Therefore, they do not have the economic and social potential of all women to cope with violence within the family. But neither the government nor the state bodies who have said, at the hearing of the bodies, that since 2003 they have had to update their statistics. The responsibilities of all governments, and the current one, for under-financing and subscribing the minimum prevention and support services for abused women are great. They are sufficient for European funds with an end date to finance the prevention and support structures for malicious women. They are responsible, because they are slapping money on the private initiative through non-governmental organisations, as is clearly provided for in Article 8 and 9 of the Convention. In essence, it validates the practice that is being implemented today. Articles of the Convention on Prevention, in support of abused women and their children, remain declarations, because they require measures that must go against its anti-Fraud policy and, above all, brave state funding from the state budget. For example, prevention of violence against women in youth education areas needs to be done with state responsibility by scientific state bodies, which means recruitment of psychologists, social workers, qualified staff with appropriate education in schools and other educational establishments. At the hearing of the bodies, the need for SOS, consultancy centres and hostels with qualified staff and interpreters has emerged in various languages. Work counselling alone is not enough to keep a woman on her feet. With the amount of the compensation he will receive - if he gets it - and after six months, he cannot deal with the insecurity of work, the merchandise services of health, welfare and education. On the basis of all the above, therefore, the JRC votes for Article 1 concerning the Istanbul Convention,'residences'. Article 2, which deals with changes to the Criminal Code, is to be voted in favour of. But the reservation of our Party on the ambiguity of Article 2(4) for'stalking' is confirmed. Legislative improvement does not cover ambiguity in relation to the objective size to form unfair. In Article 3 on changes to the legislation on domestic violence, it is good that the provisions on domestic violence are being extended. However, the addition to paragraph 5 of Article 3 shall open a dangerous path for the intervention of the prosecutor. We insist, Minister, that, as far as its scope is limited, the institution of criminal mediation must be abolished, because it is not a simple personal dispute, which can well be resolved, does not enter the same victim's yoke and victim's, and the procedure of criminal mediation can ultimately act inhibit the decapitation of the victim by the victim or even by the fatality of the victim. That is why he has not walked to this day. In Article 4, on compensation for victims of violence, we agree and we vote in favour. Ladies and gentlemen, the essential and complete protection of maternity, the right to work, the way to equal treatment for women in the working class, the people's layers, but also to ensure modern rights for both sexes is the way of the struggle, based on the modern social needs of the working people's family, to get the keys to the economy and power in its hands. I come to the second and third part of the draft law. The second part, concerning the incorporation of the Justice and Home Affairs Council Decision on the implementation of the principle of mutual recognition of financial penalties in Articles 6 to 23, we are voting against it as a whole for this reason, because it is part of the pursuit of a deepening of the European Union's reactive area of freedom, security and justice, which is a strategic priority of the European Union and a tool of fierce attack on the rights and freedoms of our people. The third part, Articles 24 to 30, concerns provisions of the Ministry of Justice. Article 24 is related to the establishment and participation of our country in Eurojust Reaction, which is supported by the Greek delegation and an additional member, which will have access to the archives of arrested, research and DNA files, while the process of compliance of the Greek authorities with Eurojust's requests and other issues is strict. We vote against it because it is a significant and dangerous extension of the responsibilities and capabilities of the Head of the Greek delegation as members of the organisation in Greece and to the Greek authorities. The other articles, 26, 27, 28 and 29 include various other regulations, for which we are voting'representations'. I now come to the three amendments tabled by our group. The first concerns the abolition of Article 187a of the Criminal Code on terrorist acts, and the second concerns the amendment of provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure on DNA. These two were announced a long time ago and we had made such announcements as the Party. We call on the Minister to accept them and to take a clear position on the rest of the parties. Besides, the abolition of Article 187a of the Criminal Code, as well as the amendment of provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure for DNA, was a commitment, a declaration by the current government and by SYRIZA, when it was in Antipolitics. This legislative framework, which gives extensive and uncontrolled powers to the prosecution and judicial authorities, including the reception, exploitation and use of the genetic footprint, is the basis for authoritarian persecution, convictions, prisons of people, with the most emphatic case of Herianna and Pericles, wrapping them up in a glue. The provisions of Article 187a of the Criminal Code constitute a risk to democratic freedoms and rights of the people and young people. That is why, with the amendment tabled by our Party, the above-mentioned anti-democratic, reactionary pursuits are being dealt with, prevented. Corresponding to the proposed amendments to the relevant articles of the Code of Criminal Procedure tabled by our Party, the categories of crimes are limited, for which genetic material and DNA analysis are permitted and some basic judicial and procedural guarantees are introduced in this matter to protect the defendant and his sensitive personal data. Finally, the third amendment we have tabled relates to the possibility of carrying sorghum, bones and ashes of Greek political refugees, whose Greek nationality has been removed by legislative decrees of the post-election regime, which have been buried in the former socialist countries of central and eastern Europe or in other countries abroad, before they can be repatriated to our country and their nationality recovered. This is an ongoing unjustified attack on the memory of the dead Greek political refugees, found by death in the refugee, without being able to return to our home country, as they themselves wanted, but also an unjust treatment of survivors, relatives and their relatives who want to transfer their body, bones or ashes to our country. We believe that there is no real reason why this amendment should not be accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u176	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u177	As far as the other amendments are concerned, we will say a few things in our dilemma.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u178	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u179	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u180	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how the Greek Parliament organises, forty students and students and three teachers from Lourou Preveza High School. The House welcomes them. A coincidence is one of your two MPs here. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The special speaker from the Independent Greeks Mr Papachristopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Mr President. I believe that in this bill the word 'education' does not exist, because it is also the lawmaker's work. I would like to believe that a large part of this - let me say that - of a bad reality is due to perpetuating bad education, to a society that either we want or not has always been patriarchal. I want to start with an event that made me a terrible impression. We've been through this recently all over the news. It's about a twenty - nine - year - old girl whose stepfather has been raped since she was four, five. She made several attempts, this girl went to the authorities at both her ten and later. At some point her stepfather, who I do not think is purely symptomical, and I do not want to mention it, because it is defamatory for this sector, because I have a good opinion - he is referred to the court and is condemned. The girl, however, remains unprotected. She continues to be forced to live in the same environment as people who have almost embroidered her psychology and personal life. At some point his service - her stepfather was a priest - was to change his parish, and he was convicted of rape. This girl can't stand this reality and kill herself in her twenty-nine. I say these things, because now that we are talking about there are some well-intentioned people who say 'Come on, but what violence is there?' They don't recognize it, in style "you don't know what he did to him, he caused him" and stuff like that. We must be serious, therefore, because this is a very serious matter. I have in front of me an investigation that I want to believe nobody is questioning. According to UN figures, global data, a 40% of the victims seek some form of assistance and less than 10% will denounce the violence in the police. This is a tangible proof that these women have the feeling that nothing will happen and actually they will probably worsen their position. Still - for those who do not know - fifty women lose their lives every week because of this violence. I want to believe, then, that in a serious way we will see this bill. The Convention, as it is called, of Istanbul is something that should have been done in our country earlier. He's late. But it's never too late. I would also like to remind you - because it is worth it - that one out of four women has felt such violence since the age of 15. Last year, the "SOS" line accepted around four thousand interrupted sixty complaints of racial violence. I think that this bill is coming with nine innovations, in my opinion, very positive, which are, for the first time, being legislated late, but which are being legislated. We have amendments to the provisions in the Criminal Code with the following changes. Very often, someone could invoke customs, traditions, religion, honor. These are no longer refreshing elements. This is an important amendment to the Criminal Code. Secondly, some did not threaten words, but they were present and a woman’s life became hell. Everywhere they were present. Now that we have the digital age there are incredible messages. There's an incredible pressure. That's a criminal offense anymore. This is a second innovation. Third innovation: For the first time, in these amended provisions of the Criminal Code, a woman, a victim of violence, can claim compensation, which can be covered by the public. Fourth innovation: There was an incredible story where someone could rape a fourteen-year-old child, 15 years-old, but if he promised to marry it... This is abolished. Five, a chance is given to the perpetrator. They say to him: 'Followed a programme'. It is not in his good intention to follow it or not. If he violates it, the criminal proceedings continue. Sixthly, a special independent monitoring mechanism is set up to respect the definitions of the Istanbul Convention. This is very important. It never existed. He's like a custodian of all this new reality. Seventh and in my opinion very important innovation: it is undertaken by the Greek state to create shelters for victims of violence throughout the territory and to finance them. We will come back to this. It is a huge innovation in protecting these women, which does not actually oblige them to come back to where an unfortunate event occurred to them. Eighth, very important, in my opinion - perhaps of the most important - of which I have heard objections: a woman, who has no papers and who is foreign and who proves that she is a victim of violence has the potential, legally, even if she has no paper, to be protected, as is the case with any Greek woman who lives in the country. But is that enough? There's more. No, it's not enough. It's first steps. Here, I would like to raise some objections, which I think are important. I would like, first of all, to praise Amnesty International and the women of the Citizens' Counsellor and of women - now I do not think of their union - who have worked very much, in depth for these proposals that I want to think the Minister will take into account. There is one topic, for example, what is defined as rape. It may seem a detail, but it's not a detail. It is not just enough that there is no consensus. How does that prove? Signs of physical violence may not exist, because the other one threw something on the liquor, because a girl was terrified of the threat and so much more "why". These are issues that we need to see. And yet, it is a good idea to create hostels for these women. Are we going to finance them? I say this because the network of women in Europe has had many years of refuge for women, for victims of trafficking. Recent lack of funding has been closed. I believe that both psychological support and legal assistance and all the services must be implemented and not really because our country is going through a difficult time, somewhere to legislate and then forget about it. No, don't forget. I would also like those who will be involved, once we have the funding - and I would like the Minister here - to coordinate properly, all the state services, by the police officer who will first look at the incident, the doctor who will certify whether or not there is one, by the psychologist, from the rest of the services. It's a tough thing. I'd like to show something else here. A large part of these women are terrified. They're not going to the police. Of the four and a half thousand rapes only a hundred fifty finally reach the courtroom. There's a well-established perception that nothing will happen. 'I will be exposed and I will probably have a worse effect'. This should definitely be shielded. There is also one detail in Great Britain, Belgium, Cyprus yet. Unfortunately in Cyprus this incident occurred, with this girl, who experienced violence many decades and the patriarchal society - forgive me the expression - 'Munga'. There are many such incidents, tens of thousands. Look out. What's the definition of rape? It's very important. It's not clear at all. Is the absence of consensus enough? Oh, no. In these countries there are still three dictionaries. In the absence of consensus on sexual activity is very important, it covers a greater proportion of girls who have been raped and cannot prove it. I also want to say that there are transgender people, transgenders, etc. Happy work is the bill to cover the fact that this range is, because these people, I would say above all, accept an incredible violence because it is a model. We have recently experienced a metropolitan delirium for these groups, and I think it's worth it to see this group of people. They're human too, they have rights. When Christ said, you love one another, he did not make any separation. It's the bill. And here I'd like more details. I won't have any more time. I would like to conclude by saying that this is a unique opportunity, because half of the earth's population is women, for this population that has suffered from pandemics, dealing with such as'moles, it has moved' and a number of other nonsense. A large part of the oppressor has a sense of allegiance and has never calculated it, and unfortunately a large part of the women - women who have unfortunately not acquired any rights at the time - consented to and perpetuated this situation. So I insist that it is a matter of education. In my opinion, it may be the biggest. That's where the Minister of Education, Mr. Gavroglou, comes in. I see Mr. Friend here, sitting in front of me. In fact, even in infancy, where they will start, a large piece slowly begins and goes into the depth of the children's soul, to avoid results like what we said before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u182	Mr. Cavadela, may I ask you for something on behalf of Mr. Lykoudis. Because he is a member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and he must go, lead and close.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u183	All right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u184	Thank you very much. Here, Mr. Lykoudi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u185	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I do not know why, once again, we need to have this debate and the meeting with pressure. In other words, why should the Council of Europe ratify the Council of Europe Convention on a number of other matters, with amendments, with regulations, provisions, etc.? And make it harder? I don't understand it. It is also from the government's point of view that your legislative effort is difficult, because you are nervous about so much you are bringing, what we need to discuss, but also from the point of view of our counter-population, you are making it very difficult. I don't think I miss either the experience or the ability to search and find out what the big one is and what it is, what to leave it, what to comment, etc. But I think I would be much more useful even in an effort to contribute to the government proposals, if we had the comfort and the timing, but also in terms of the volume of work and that we would be more effective. I think, therefore, that we are continuing a pathogen at the level of the legislature, which we do not need. Minister, I have to tell you that I was one of those who, together with other colleagues, think - with coolness, we were not particularly critical when the bills came after the other, and indeed with urgency and urgency, because we understood many times in the past that the density of the possibilities to legislate, the density of the need to legislate with the pressure of the memoranda, the prerequisites, etc., has often led us to this practice. Now why not accept the government's announcement that we have entered calmer waters, that things are more comfortable for legislation? Why does your demand that we legislate with pressure again? In any case, keep these comments - I think they are serious and well-meaning - because at some point we have to stop legislating with loops. Ladies and gentlemen, the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and domestic violence and the adaptation of national legislation to them was signed by the Council of Ministers of the Council of Europe on 11 May 2011, at the Council meeting in Istanbul and entered into force on 22 April 2014. Our country, although it was one of the first to sign it, did not proceed to its ratification until today. Here my remark has nothing to do with any opposition, because it is a time-consuming responsibility for this story, so political responsibility is also a time-consuming one. In other words, there is a lack of regularity and a constant ataxia in the way the Greek state fulfils its obligations. Here we are dealing with an integrated framework for dealing with racial violence and abuse, which is a major step in the Council of Europe's effort to ensure respect for women's rights. Domestic violence and violence against women in all its forms - verbal, physical and psychological - is an extremist expression of race sovereignty and has emerged in Europe as a central theme of human rights violations. The characteristic of the Istanbul Convention is that it puts emphasis on prevention, and it does well. In other words, the States Parties are required to ensure that professionals involved in violence and the implementation of treatment programmes for offenders of domestic violence are trained. Ladies and gentlemen, the Istanbul Convention aims to harmonise national legislation, to prevent violence against women and domestic violence, so that victims of violence enjoy equal protection in all the Member States of the Council. The commitments resulting from this convention concern mainly women, and that is not absurd, but completely within the framework of reality. The Convention of Istanbul is the emphasis it attaches to prevention. As I said before, it calls for the training of professionals who deal with victims of violence, the implementation of therapeutic programmes and the organisation of publicity actions to eliminate the stereotypes in society and ensure respect for diversity. There are also important forecasts for the protection of victims, and it is obviously very right to remove the victim from the perpetrator who can be forced to leave his residence, to establish reception centres for victims throughout the territory and to issue or renew the residence permit for foreign women victims of domestic violence, which is absolutely essential in such cases. I had made a few remarks during the debate in committee, for example in Article 2. And this is an opportunity for a more extensive amendment of the relevant provisions of the Criminal Code by the Minister of Justice, on the basis of others - apart from my own - notable comments made in committee. For example, provision should be made and punished as a case of serious physical harm and the case of a woman in self-mutualisation, whether it was done without or with the consent of or without an ignorance of the victim, and if it was because of the gender characteristics of the victim and regardless of whether it was an adult or minor woman. Secondly, drastic measures must be taken by the state to prevent such phenomena of self-mutation or self-mutilisation of minors, not only because of young age but also because of religious beliefs. Modify Articles 336 and 338 on rape and abuse in inactivity by adding the lack of consensus so that any non-consensual sexual act constitutes a criminal offence. In Article 3, ladies and gentlemen, to include rape and abuse of embezzlement in the self-prosecuted crimes of domestic violence. Provision should be made for referral to a qualified public body where healing programmes are in operation if we find out any kind of dependence of the perpetrator, whether from substances, from alcohol or from gambling. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, in Article 4, I would say that we need to take into account subsequent legislation on the legal recognition of gender, which means that any changes that are taking place should also incorporate the dimension of gender identity and characteristics. To expressly provide for the compulsory training and awareness of the parties involved, particularly police officers and judicial officers, as I think we should be forced to implement the contract provision, which states that "the obligation of the States Parties is to ensure that professionals involved in the victims of violence and the implementation of therapeutic programmes for offenders of domestic violence". These are the conventions, ladies and gentlemen, for which we are not just positive, but I think we are also obliged to recognise the seriousness and usefulness of its vote. Now, with regard to Part II, of the draft law, which relates to the Framework Decision and its incorporation, this Framework Decision was amended in 2009 and is incorporated into the Greek legal order ten years later, while the Member States - and we - had to adopt effective measures by 22 March 2007. In the meantime, it comes to a vote almost four months later and indeed without any real reason to delay it, because it is a simple European framework decision. It's positive. And it is positive to match the relevant articles of the directive in the draft law, as it facilitates understanding of the complex legal provisions of the draft law. As far as the content of the draft law is concerned, there is therefore a comparison with the corresponding articles of the directive. We're positive towards integration. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make two - three comments on the amendments. In Amendment No 1518, which regulates matters of responsibility of the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction, we could see a realism in trying to correct a few issues, but, ladies and gentlemen, we can only be negative when we return to the old 'good' habits of the type 'is a necessary evil'. Expenditure under contract shall be legalised. And here comes the question: Since there was a contract, which expired on 30 September 2016, why did we not have to renew and are now obliged to meet obligations that are out of time and outside the contract? We are not positive about this amendment, Minister. As far as the second amendment before me is concerned, Amendment No 1524 on the arrangements of the Ministry of the Interior on citizenship is concerned, look, it is another 30-five-page pluralism. We need to look at this issue. None of us, even want to contribute positively, so that it can fulfil its role, that is, the role of a creative opposition. We are basically positive - with certain reservations - because in a globalised and open society the recognition of Greek citizenship to foreigners who are legally resident here and who have developed substantial ties is not without them. It is negative, of course, that it is generally irrelevant and to a large extent an amendment and regulates many different issues in different legislation. Well, all this could get into a bill from the Ministry of the Interior. However, we shall vote 'yes' in the amendment, Mr Minister, but please, frankly, address this type of criticism, which is, in my opinion, a substantial, well-deserved and critical one that wants to contribute, with a realism. Until when will we legislate like this? None of us are helped to contribute, even actually. It's lost in the cavity of the devices. I tell you again that we are not missing, I do not miss him, I do not miss colleagues in the possibility of isolating the major from the lasson, but it is not easy, it is not easy at all. In Amendment No 1530 on the procedure for the mobility of civil servants, Minister, we are negative. To date, in order for an agency to be seconded to it, it should have an organisational chart and set up a contour for the position in which it calls for the staff to be seconded. This amendment removes this condition. If we keep putting exceptions like that that that actually cancels all the effort to create a digital organizational or positional curriculum, then we will never create a public administration. This amendment takes the situation backwards and, in our opinion, opens up a large 'window' of rhetorical practices and a set of links between officials and administrative bodies. We will not be positive about this amendment. As regards the amendment, which relates to the issues of the placement of police personnel, we find no reason to be negative. We will be in favour of the amendment, Minister, despite the fact that I must tell you that it does not appear from anywhere that there has been such a sudden change in circumstances justifying this sudden change in the current framework. However, someone who wants to make a substantial contribution to the way in which we debate and legislate will go with a relative seriousness and responsibility in voting in favour of this amendment. We too are voting in favour of it. We will not vote positively, but neither will we be voting negatively on issues relating to the granting of a full or partial authorisation to tourist ports and to tourism issues. We shall be voting 'at present' here, because there are positive arrangements and negative ones. We will vote in favour of the proposed amendment to abolish Article 25 of Subsection D9 and so on, since this amendment removes the provision in question and restores a balance in these matters. We are therefore voting in favour. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the Vice-President of Parliament, Ms. MARios GEORGIADIS.]] We will not vote in favour of the GDP amendment, because it is becoming a state-owned body. We will also see in the course of the parliamentary amendments. First of all, I should like to say that the amendment tabled by the Members of the SYRIZA finds us positive, as well as the amendment tabled by the Members of the Democratic Independence. I have now seen the amendments tabled by the Communist Party of Greece. I have the impression they're interested. I have to study them a little more to see what each one says and decide how to move. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, Mr. Lykoudi. Mr Cavalellas from the Centron Association has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u187	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now coming to discuss in the final phase a bill which includes three parts and many amendments, which, as usual, come at the last minute. We cannot follow you in this diversion. In any case, Part I concerns the incorporation into our Greek legislation of a particularly important Council of Europe convention on the prevention and fight against violence against women and, of course, domestic violence. It is a contract that can prove to be a valuable tool at the moment in the day-to-day battle to combat an unfortunately still alive phenomenon. Part II concerns the incorporation of a framework decision implementing the principle of mutual recognition of financial penalties. And there is a third part, which includes diverse provisions of responsibility of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights. We have already expressed our dissatisfaction with the fact that a contract of such importance is being jointly legislated with a number of diffuse other provisions, which should normally be the subject of a separate bill. I think that here is the traditional practice followed by the coexistence, the legislation of an important bill in which no one could object, along with unrelated issues, which conceal graceful provisions for the promotion of customer pursuits. Some kind of a Trojan horse is this bill, a bill in which no one could object. But things are complicated when there are other issues, which are of minor importance, on the other hand, of suspicious importance. To avoid talking about the other unacceptable phenomenon - what I said earlier - of tabling inconsistent amendments which seek to regulate important issues, such as citizenship or the mobility of civil servants, at the same time without real dialogue. Because it is indigenous who was born in a country, in a place. I think we could perhaps improve the issue of citizenship, which we can give ourselves, say, self-righteously, to someone who has actually been in Greece for many years, is part of our education, but citizenship, from the very word itself, is another thing. Your government is undermining the role that the House should play constantly, this role of legislative power, since you are just bringing us here to agree, without being given the opportunity to exercise a fertile criticism. This seems like a 'flammation' of Parliament and I have said it before. It's a tough word, but it's a reality. We have already expressed our predisposition for the even delay in incorporating such an important text into Greek legislation. However, we do not consider that only the current government has delayed the incorporation of the Istanbul Convention into the Parliament, a convention dating back to 2011, but also the previous ones who have ruled here, who supposedly swing the finger today, saying that the current government is the only one responsible for this slowdown. Of course, we are doing this to put things in their real dimensions, because we cannot monitor such a logic. Ladies and gentlemen, the Istanbul Convention provides an integrated institutional framework for protection against violence against women in all its forms. Violence against women takes many forms and is not confined to the exercise of only natural violence. It may include all those behaviors that can lead to gender discrimination, based on the perception that each of us has according to our culture. Only when we analyse all aspects of this complex phenomenon and the corresponding behaviours that lead to them, then we will only be able to understand how much more has to be done to get women the equal place they deserve in our country, which claims as a lighter in Western civilisation a position similar to that in the Western world and which should be a pioneering position. This requires continuous information, education, school-based awareness and awareness of all of us as citizens. An ever-sensitive society with fast reflexes in violating the basic rights of women and other citizens is the only guarantee and real progress in combating discrimination based on sex, religion, colour. The Convention offers a holistic approach based on three axes, namely the prevention, treatment and eradication of violence against women. It attaches great importance to prevention and education. Through preventive and therapeutic programmes, it provides for specific measures to protect and support victims, racial violence, special support services, and to support children who are victims or victims of violence. It provides for the possibility of legal protection, through the lodging of civil actions and recourse to legal proceedings, and the possibility of compensation for victims. It's a progressive bill. Who could say no? However, times require particular vigilance, due to the influx of immigrants where, due to religious and cultural influence, they question issues such as women's self-determination. And I will bring a bad example: By using the Law of Friday, a Pakistani was released - I do not say it about his origin, it could also be Greek - who had flew into a cliff in Corfu to a girl. You fired him, after you made sure he repented, that he changed, and he went to Germany and raped a 19-year-old girl and then slayed her and threw her, I think, in a river. So I don't get the screams. I want to see real work. Your intentions may be good, but they may be ineffective due to your handling. So with the incorporation of the framework decision on the mutual recognition of financial penalties at European level, we also express our positive attitude here, as we consider it to be another step in the right direction, that of our approach to other countries - members and further convergence of our national legislation. As far as the third part is concerned, we reiterate our concern about the inclusion of irrelevant provisions. On the basis of the current practice of the Government, these are photographic provisions, such as the provision of Article 24 on the participation of our country in the European Judicial Cooperation Unit, the 'EUROJUST'. This provides for gross remuneration for the deputy and assistant of the national member, of EUR 135,000 per year, and provides that it will now be made available to prosecutors and not to judges, as has been the case so far. With Article 27 on the National Stock Exchange, it is once again demonstrated that the co-responsibility of the co-responsibility legislation is being established, where after unsuitable preparation, mortgages are abolished, the need for remedial movements arises continuously through transfers of employees from the mortgages and property offices. However, also in Article 29, which provides for the increase in the Court of Auditors, there is provision for the creation of new organic posts of three consultants and three experts, in which, for reasons of principle, we are opposed, because the Greek State has grown, it is a waterhead. Questions arise: Is this financial area for these new recruitments in public at times when wages, pensions? The Government must be particularly foul in terms of the new provisions and recommend new recruitment only when it is absolutely necessary and proves this absolute necessity. Here there could be a formal transition, an internal mobility and cover for these positions, not to create new organic positions. For the end I left the case with the electronic bracelet we're talking about here. It's a placebo case. Someone's cutting it and disappearing, riding a machine and leaving. He throws it in a trash can, as I have told you, and they go and find it after three minutes the garbage can, and he's gone miles away and he's escaped. Also, this bracelet is overrated. It's 12 bucks in the super-christian market. I don't know how much they're charging you. Let's see this again, because it's a placebo case. It does not ensure and ensure no one at the good mood of the user. I would like to say something else, the very provocative of the parties and of which you have legislated. The parties owe millions. The sponsorship they receive from the public has been reduced because they do not have this power they formerly had. And while you take the homes of the world, you leave half of the financial support inappropriate. The parties - the Centro Association has said so repeatedly - have people who support them, have members. Members have to deal with this case. The Greek State must not be involved in such difficult times. In principle, however, we are in favour of the philosophical part, in terms of the philosophical approach of the bill, and we are therefore positive about both members of the bill. At the same time, we have reservations about the third part, and I would certainly like to say'residents' about the amendments, where we may also have interesting issues, but we have to get away from this last minute's logic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, Mr. Cavadela. The floor has been asked by the Deputy Minister of Interior, Mr Toskas, to develop an amendment. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with Law No 1234/1982 the service was banned on police officers at places where they lived up to the 18th year of their age or in a city, which, on the basis of the existing census, had around twenty thousand people and from which these policemen came from. With KALIKRATI, i.e. the combination of municipalities and communities that took place in 2010 and then in 2012, the limits of the self-government units, the way the institutions are elected and the responsibilities were reorganised and reorganised by the police regions and services. The existence of this article creates problems, difficulties for staff who want to serve and are occupied by the provisions of the Integration Act. That is why I will bring you an example: in cities such as Amphissa or Sparta, which have a population of less than twenty thousand, there is a problem if some policemen from other places do not want to serve and there are some local policemen who want to serve, but they cannot do so on the basis of this article. This amendment therefore regulates issues of purely rationalisation of the existing reality. The abolition of this article will not create any further obstacles to the movement and transfer of police personnel. These transfers will continue to be made on the basis of d.d. 100/2003. In fact, there are control mechanisms and the Internal Affairs Service, which examines cases not the proper exercise of the duties of police personnel. I mean, there's a safety net. That is why we are proposing that this article should be abolished so that police officers can serve, if there are any official needs, at their place of origin. This is a mere rationalization with today's data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u190	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We are entering the list of speakers. Every two or three speakers will speak, the parliamentary representatives who can tell us when they want to speak. At the moment, only Mrs Vakis and Mr Amyras have expressed interest. Whenever you want the Parliamentary Representatives, let's get in touch, let's see when you're going to speak together. Mrs. Alonitou has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u191	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill on the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combat of Violence against Women and Independent Family Violence and the adaptation of Greek legislation, etc, ratifys a convention seeking to harmonise national legislation on the treatment of family violence. I do not think I need to argue about the need to vote in favour of ratification of the convention. I think he's all obvious. However, the part of the adaptation of Greek legislation is of particular importance and I would like to focus on a number of points in Articles 2 and 5. Article 2 amends provisions of the Criminal Code. Paragraph 1 shall define appropriately and explicitly prohibit the basic fairy tale accompanying domestic violence and violence aimed at women, the invoking of customs and traditions that give in advance ‘concern’ to such acts, reaching even the invocation of divine command. I will not say that it is because of customs, traditions and religions about violence against women. But even if someone thinks they're to blame, they're lost. Their appeal does not guarantee the perpetrator any leniency in the sentence. In Greece, of course, the customs, traditions and recruitment of the prevailing Orthodox Christian religion have evolved over the years along with the public on the lawful sense. Nowadays I don't think you can find a Orthodox priest in Greece who tells you for any reason "show your wife". Since the 1960s the case law of the Greek courts has dealt with the allegedly dishonorable crime. But nowadays, people are moving and different cultures are meeting. So it is very good to have a fresh provision in the Criminal Code that expressly and without spins to everyone "when you are in Greece, you will follow the laws and Greek traditions of criminal interest". Article 2(2) stands in particular in an act which is indeed a tradition in some countries outside Europe, but which in our country is a horrendous crime: the mutilation of women's genitals. It is a barbaric act that exists elsewhere, in other countries, underage girls. Paragraph 2 of Article 2 stipulates that no girl will suffer it in Greece and whoever has a problem with it should not come to our country. Article 2(3) deals with another problem: the trafficking of people with a view to forced marriages and young girls, now treated as trafficking in human beings. So far Article 2 follows with complete consistency the principle that Greek law applies to all, no matter what else it may be in the country of origin of every person to be found in our country. In other words, the law is geographically defined. I must point out, however, that this principle is followed with complete consistency throughout the legislation, since Article 5 expressly states our country's reservation to the application of paragraph (e) of paragraph 1 and paragraphs 3 and 4 of Article 44 of the Convention. What, though, do these scriptures that we do not agree to apply? They say that we extend the application of Greek law to all countries of the world, as long as the alleged perpetrator falls into our hands, because he is accustomed to living in our country, even if the act he is alleged to do is not illegal in the country where he is alleged to do it. Here, with the absolute consequence of our demand to geographically define the law, we do not have the right to define what is going to be done in other countries. We are neither the world empire of the good nor the representative of God on earth. We are a democratic country that defines what is happening within our country. As we demand the absolute competence to define what we are doing, so we recognise in the rest of the world the right to define what we are doing. So we have a bill that makes clear explanations to everyone inside and outside the country. That's what I really like. So I am voting in favour of this bill in principle and in an enthusiastic manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u192	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, thirty-seven students and students and three educational attendances from the 1st Edessa High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Vorides has the floor on behalf of the New Democracy. Here, Mr. Voridis, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to ask you, in introduction, to take care of the microphones, and yet before Mr Georgiadis speaks in plenary, because you understand what is going to happen if these microphones have a speech from Adodus here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u194	He's not here today.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u195	Yeah, it's not today. That's what I'm saying, urgently! The second thing I would like to say, because a misunderstanding has arisen and has been reproduced in the media on the issue of the eight, is that the specific article which the government is proposing today and which amends Article 55 of the Penal Code concerns 'conditions for the receipt of regular sentences'. Article 55(1) states: 'Trade licences shall be granted, provided that, firstly, the convict...' and the conditions are beginning. It's obvious the eight are not convicts. There is therefore no margin for misunderstanding and there is therefore no question of amending that article. The eight are obviously detained under the so-called 'administrative detention'. The question of the time limit for administrative detention has been identified. Not more than eighteen months. And that, otherwise, is thought to be a violation of human rights. Therefore, this is, to finish with this debate which, I think, was no reason to open at least in relation to this bill. It remains open - and indeed the Minister has made it clear, but I do not know whether anyone can reassure with this clarification - the issue of famous exchanges. Why am I saying it's still open? The government has made it clear. Listen a little, because I'm saying it's still open. Because this intervention has come from a Member of Parliament who is confronting you with a party. In fact, he is the one who deals with the Minister of National Defence, who handles these issues within the government. And so this creates a reasonable concern for the thoughts that prevail. I would also like to welcome here, but also to come to what will be my main intervention, in fact the provisions of Article 2 of this bill and, in particular, the issues in the introduction of the new Article 315 B of the Criminal Code. What does Article 315 B say? "Any person who causes or encourages in any way a woman to undergo genital mutilation, as well as any person who is publicly provoking or inciting in practice is punished by imprisonment." The previous provision, which was developed by the previous speaker, also amends Article 79 of the Criminal Code and states that it is taken into account 'the reasons for the execution of the crime, the reason given to it and the purpose it pursues'. And he says: "The customs and traditions followed by the perpetrator, as well as his religion, do not constitute elements capable of reducing the penalty." Right are these provisions. But why do they become necessary? What makes the legislator want to legislate? Have we ever had such issues in Greece, and we must now introduce a provision that we criminalise the person who is causing someone the intention to mutilate genitals, but is it actually aimed at women? We never had it. Why do we have it? It is precisely because this is actually a practice followed by some Islamic communities who have a specific interpretation of this practice. So why do we need and rightly introduce it, and we are obviously voting in favour of it? Because we actually see that there is a risk - I do not know if there has been such an act in Greece - of such an application. And I come to the next conversation through this. In an amendment, it changes the provisions of the Code of Nationality. It is extremely bad to discuss naturalisations in the context of amendments. The naturalization - what? - the performance of the status of the Greek citizen to anyone must be a very serious act and must be preceded by a very serious debate. By the way, it cannot be done, it cannot happen by accident, it cannot be done 'because so'. Because in fact what you have done as a government is to have brought two laws on citizenship, one in 2015 and one in 2017, in the last time and today to legislate with amendments. I leave what the amendment is minor, let me say not so important, but which is uncertain or harmonious with previous provisions which are not of an appropriate nature, and now somehow, let me say it, you are trying to bring them together. However, I come to a provision which I consider to be very important. And what is that provision? It concerns a particular paragraph which reads as follows: ‘In Article 5 of the Code of Greek citizenship, paragraph 3 is added: ‘A foreigner who holds any valid residence permit, other than temporary, and fulfils formal conditions in cases (a), (b) (c) of paragraph 1, may request its naturalisation if he is legally resident in Greece for 12 consecutive years prior to the submission of the application for naturalisation’. Do we have a naturalisation process? We do. What does the layout say? It describes the specific titles required, these titles are clear in the Code of Hellenic Integration in Article 5, and says it needs to have seven years continuous in order to have a right to request. What are these titles, based on the law? A long-term residence permit for citizens of Member States a certificate or other residence permit issued, card or other residence permit issued to members of a citizen's family, a certificate of recognised political refugee or subsidiary protection status, travel documents or a special card based on the International Convention on New York, a residence permit or a residence permit issued by a parent, a second-generation residence permit. With these, as the provision today, if seven years of residence have been completed, there is a right to ask for its physicalisation. What's coming up here and the order you're bringing? 'And any other valid residence permit'. Colleagues who will vote if I ask you 'who is the other valid residence permit?', no one knows how to answer me. And that is not what the explanatory statement says.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u196	Mr. Voridis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u197	I shall conclude, Mr President. But I went to the trouble to see what the other valid residence title is. Other residence permits are provided for in Law 4251/2014, which has abolished a Presidential Decree on long-term residences and now says: I am reading to you the other valid titles: "Authorisation for work and professional reasons". There are workers with dependent employment, special-purpose workers: investment activity, high-skilled employment, blue card. It is the residence permit for humanitarian, exceptional and other reasons - humanitarian reasons, exceptional reasons, public interest. Other reasons: residence permit for studies, voluntary work, research and training, residence permit for victims of trafficking in human beings, illegal immigration, family reunification permit, long-stay residence permit, second-generation residence permit, 10-year residence permit. Excuse me: With what thought? And without debate and without an extensive dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u198	Mr. Voridis, you've reached ten minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u199	I shall conclude, Mr President. You're right. And why the provision of the twelfth year? And why is this over-enlargement of this possibility too? Is it possible for Parliament to legislate on such important matters without extensive dialogue, without sufficient justification, without saying how much we want to open up this thing, which is the status of the Greek citizen? I beg your pardon, but this legislation on these issues in this way, without extensive debate, without even having any idea what they are legislating at all, is absolutely unacceptable and it is clear that we cannot vote on such provisions. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u200	Thank you, Mr. Vorides. I would like to ask all colleagues not to exceed your time. I understand that both the bill and your speeches are important, but twenty-six speakers are registered plus parliamentary representatives, plus ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u201	Mr President, I would like to speak on two amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u202	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, Mr President. On Amendment No 1536, the Minister for the Protection of the Citizens, Mr Toskas, spoke of the amendment. I have nothing more to add. This amendment is accepted. I would like to refer to the amendment with general number 1543 and specific number 154. This amendment is from the Ministry of Justice, which I had announced at the last committee meeting. We had not been able to deal with the procedure in the General Accounting Office of the State, which is why I had not brought it before the committee. Refers to changes in the organization of the Korydalos detention store. This amendment creates an autonomous unit, the Korydallus II detention shop, in which the part of the prison to which the women are concerned will belong. Also, in this administrative structure, as described in the amendment, external guards, i.e. the prison's external guards, will also be subjected to this. Finally, this amendment provides for the creation of a place of Vice-President at the Korydallus I detention shop for its better and well-functioning operation. Care shall also be taken to ensure adequate staffing, which is part of a specific provision. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u204	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Gregos has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, Mr President. It is truly indicative and characteristic of extreme vote that New Democracy is trying to show that it is supposedly interested in problems such as the ones of citizenship. To remind you here that it was Samaras who opened the border, that the New Democracy passed the law on citizenship, and of course voted for the anti-racist law. Violence is a situation that can begin as a simple and innocent behaviour and over time evolve into a dramaticly violent act. The phenomenon of domestic violence has been suffocated in our country, but also internationally, in the form of physical and sexual abuse or verbal and psychological violence. According to Greek Police Headquarters statistics, over 13,700 such incidents have occurred from 2014 to 2017 and women account for 70% of the victims. In 2017 there were three thousand hundred and thirty-four incidents of domestic violence with four thousand two hundred forty-three victims in total. It is estimated that over a year over sixteen million seventy thousand women have suffered physical violence or sexual abuse in the European Union, while in Greece over seventy-seventy cases of rape have occurred. It's known from who. The numbers speak for themselves. The problem of the exacerbation of violence against women and domestic violence in the societies of European states began to take uncontrolled proportions where Muslim immigrants were brought in and "incorporated" local communities of Muslim illegal immigrants, and where multiple Muslim populations were involved or tried to be involved, and in many cases they started to exceed numbers vis-à-vis native Europeans. Sharia, the handkerchief, the bourgeoisie, the treatment of women as a person with no rights, the possibility of beating her by the husband as normal practice, the mandatory marriage between minor girls, even in the ten years of age, the inhumane habit of clitoritomy are practices which are widely accepted by the large majority of Islamic populations who have massively invaded and settled in Europe as illegal immigrants under the blessings of Brussels' stateless and bureaucrats. These barbarians for European Christian societies have legal, religious and moral bases in Islam. It is clear that they cannot be dealt with either as preventive or as repressive by conventions, regulations, Community directives and any kind of legislation, such as the ratification convention, which is, in fact, a simple wish, a mere quote of opinions and intentions. The fact is that, in practice, this convention will prove inadequate and ineffective if it attempts to deal with the symptom, leaving to the unprecedented the causes of this phenomena, which are, above all, the Islamic concepts on which our new 'citizens' are subjected - and this in introductory terms - and all kinds of poachers. It is a characteristic example of Article 38 of the contract to be ratified that refers to the friendly practice of much of the Muslim world, the clitometry of minor girls and which is already done in secret or in the least secretly in many European cities, even in Athens, according to complaints. Generally and indefinitely, completely superficially, it attempts to deal with this extreme criminal behaviour, the contract being ratified, which invites members to take the necessary legislative measures in the draft law to be passed. However, in Article 2, as a necessary legislative measure to punish this atrocious act, simple imprisonment is defined. It is obviously inadequate for a criminally confusing act which should in any case affect the threat of imprisonment, but also the immediate deportation of anyone involved in any form of participation. I'm talking about natural authors, morals, and all kinds of composite. It is therefore the culmination of hypocrisy that its authors should be tempted for the draft law to be passed and that the alleged SYRIZ feminists who may consider the discussion to be an achievement and an important fact on the day of the woman, but they should close their eyes and ignore the daily torture and humiliation experienced by thousands of women who have the misfortune to be born and raised within a Muslim family. The possibility of annual funding from the Ministry of Justice of the students to twenty-fifth-graduate blocking shops of the Hellenic Open University is set up in an undergraduate curriculum and the most specific conditions are laid down. This regulation seems positive, but it should cover all the costs of study and not just 50% of the fees envisaged, as indicated in the proposed provision. Regarding Amendment No 1542/153, which concerns the provision of accommodation expenses for the non-parliamentary members of the Government and the State Secretarys, we naturally agree, but the exact way and time of return of the money paid has not been clarified. However, a week period could be set, as is the case with the payment of a guarantee. We are clearly condemning any form of violence and of course the form of domesticity. Of course you do not condemn the extreme violence against the Golden Dawn, even in the case of a competitor who broke your children's hands, because you just went to our offices. The state, bodies, associations must be close to the victims of domestic violence from the beginning to the end. We are talking about a social phenomenon with huge scales, often well-hidden and unfortunately often unpunished. A crown in this criminal behaviour is violence against children, which must be punished exemplarily. Of course, in the case of paedophiles and paedophiles, proper punishment is the introduction of the death penalty, chemical castration and everything else that will turn the life of the perpetrator - criminal into a hell. Fortunately, in such cases, the administration of justice is given within prisons. Reference was made to the performance of Greek citizenship in illegal immigrants by the special speaker. It is a crime that you want to commit, but which, with an article, a law and a national government of the Golden Dawn will be corrected by a simple subtraction. How the parties of the so-called constitutional arch operate and operate are known to the Greek people: thefts, hates, frauds, ruffles and much more. The Golden Dawn entered the House on a mandate from the Greek people, with constant elections. It was not contaminated by the rotten and corrupt system and will continue its fair and fair struggle, which is the struggle of the entire Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u206	Thank you, Mr. Grego. They will take the floor of two, three speakers and one parliamentarian so that we can proceed with the procedure accordingly. Mr Panagiotopoulos, Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, has the floor. Here, Mr. Colleague, you have 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I have noticed how the debate on this subject started this morning. It began with a strong tenth minute, approximately, a classification between Minister and Vice-President on a very specific legislative provision, Article 30(3), three different paragraphs, in essence three different articles, but in a paradoxical and distortive manner, incorporated into the same article on a very specific subject, the ban on the authorisation of a prisoner to whom a extradition procedure is pending in another country, in the context of the implementation of a European arrest warrant. You explained it and we accept it, but it was done that way. Unfortunately, these will arise when you are loading on a European contractual text - and indeed an important text, such as the Istanbul Convention - a multitude of unrelated and unrelated provisions, even if it relates to the competence of the Ministry of Justice to regulate them, but also foreign legislation. Together, of course, there is also the inevitable barrage of amendments - more than ten so far, perhaps others will come along - which are issues relating to the penitentiary system, the bracelets, the graduation of penitentiary officials at universities, the National Register, the illegal bet, the new GNI as part of the regulation of intellectual property, the 'EUROJUST', the audit conference and much more. Look, it has become tiring to denounce from this Step the deterioration of the quality of the legislative work through this method of legislating and, indeed, in non urgent procedures such as today. The accident, however, is in this regard - and I would like to stress this - that this is how you are unfair, degrade and degrade the importance of the basic legislation that we are working on, namely, the Istanbul Convention, which I would remind you of at the time of the committee's work, and Mr Tsipras, the Prime Minister, had also been present in order to demonstrate the importance of this legislation. So we could today have a universal and unanimous vote in favour at first and all of the relevant articles on the Istanbul Convention and the many important points, which stipulates an organised and comprehensive approach in terms of the state of the phenomenon of degenerate violence. It is undoubtedly a very important issue: Interventions concerning the prevention of violence against women, the protection of victims, the modernisation of the relevant provisions of our criminal law by criminalising among others - and I consider this to be important - and the persistent persecution - of the so-called stalling - in sexually harassing behaviours, are a matter of particular urgency and an issue of intense international debate, but not so much in this country. And it is a pity, it is unfair to discuss, that we don't have that much to say, we don't have time to say so much about it. Our rapporteur has well developed the issues of the bill, like Mrs Vultesis, our rapporteur in the work of the committee before Mrs Antoniou. I would like to stress that we are voting for Part I and Part II, namely the two European texts of the Istanbul Convention to combat violence against women and domestic violence, on the one hand, and on the other, the Council Framework Decision on the application of the principle of mutual recognition of financial penalties. We are, of course, making a number of differentiations, such as the many individual issues, these scattered articles in Part Three. You know, however, in the way you legislate, you do not give us the opportunity for an extensive debate on the basic legislation, on human rights, gender equality and racial violence. Since, Minister, we are discussing questions relating to justice, I would like you to tell us: Do you agree with the theory of circumventing justice, as developed yesterday - the scandal was not here just a moment ago - a member of the government majority on television associated with the question of exchange - because in this context Mr Katsikis raised the issue - of the eight inmates in Greece with the two prisoners in Turkey? Does the government agree with that? Because I have not heard any comment on this. I have not heard any comment from the government partner. I've said a lot at times. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] He'll tell us. I'm waiting. It will be the government's first response to this interesting approach.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u208	The government representative spoke yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u209	Okay, good. You will also say it as a competent Minister, because you are competent when one develops theories of circumvention of justice. I have said a lot at times about Mr. Kammenos, the government partner. But here, I will agree with him when he attempts to show at this juncture with this threatening now and uncontrolled neighbour the country's deterrent power with a stronger presence on the land and sea borders. I agree with that. But here, while the Minister of National Defence is bored, the MP is haggling him or rather suggesting an oriental bazaar in the context of this truly unwise theory of evacuation of justice to go to the exchange of prisoners. In fact, this is a huge issue, because first of all it provides good services to the Turkish side. And this is already recognised in the press of the neighbouring country, where little - very well with a tone of celebrating yesterday's HURRIYET told us that they had at last discussed the matter of exchange. How, then, will the government negotiate? How will the government handle this very difficult issue? And I remind you these two cases have nothing to do with each other. On the one hand, we have a series of decisions of Greek justice in the anticipated process of rejecting the request for extradition of Turkish soldiers, as the Turkish side raised this request with a key element of these decisions the conviction of Greek justice - and it was quite right to believe - that there will be no fair trial in Turkey, as currently under the pressure of the Erdogan regime the Turkish 'law state'. Greek justice stood up and defended the achievements of European culture. But that's one side. On the other hand, we do not have a similar procedure. We just have two Greek soldiers who are being held in Turkish prisons. One month I think we are now completing this unpleasant situation, which has nothing to do with the Turkish people's case. So how does Mr Katsiki like these two cases and how does he enter into the logic of exchange? How does this help the Greek side's efforts to reduce this situation? However, we must also say this when the Prime Minister himself has talked about institutional obstacles whenever Greek justice does not agree with the government's political pursuits or does not match the government's ambitions, then why not come out of a government MP and embrace the very same approach, that 'the boy knows another path', to haggle, and to exchange with one another. I have to say, therefore, that in this very story the Prime Minister has first given it to the Prime Minister, perhaps giving the impression to Members of the government that it is an appropriate way to circumvent justice when it is in the interest of the government. So we have a matter here and I would really like the views of the relevant Minister on this. These are unwise and unharmed positions. And since I'm talking about unharmed positions, I should go to Mr. Gavroglou. The day before yesterday marked the expression of anguish of ninety-three professors of law in Athens, who, in their letter, denounced the general rule of lawlessness prevailing in the Greek universities and especially in the Law of Athens. Is this approach inconsistent? Is there no question of generalised lawlessness in universities elsewhere more and less? Ashore is the confusion that the Minister for Education has about the concept of asylum. After all, its legislative initiative for this summer of 2017 is recent in August. Here I am very afraid that the Minister for Education is confused and considers that there can be no free movement of ideas, but free movement of drugs, within the framework of university asylum. And that's a real problem. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Please don't interrupt me, my colleague. This is where we now have a specific situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u210	Madam Colleague, you will have the floor to speak. You don't sound.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u211	And I would remind you - let me remind you - that this legislative intervention is an intervention by the police when such an act is found after convergence and a meeting - please! - the Rector, which is a prosecutor's judge, describes the act. And only if she labels her as a criminal, she orders or rather gives a signal to the police to come and intervene. Where does that lead? It now leads to a complete weakness in prosecuting such acts and therefore to the status of generalised lawlessness, in which the Minister for Education has unfortunately opened the way. And as I spoke of an image of lawlessness. Minister, the situation in the country's prisons - you know - is getting worse. And the cases of extreme violence by prisoners against penitentiary officers are multiplying alarmingly. Recently we had a flogging case - please! - A prisoner's penitentiary.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u212	That's not true.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u213	The Department disproved it. Isn't that right? But there was a great deal of talk in the media about a whip attack. You have ordered CSR and you have rightly done so.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u214	Where was it based?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u215	I speak of what is spreading. Disprove it if you want. But here, how do we do it? - we no longer believe what you disprove. You did it every day, not you especially, but your government. But haven't we recently had a razor attack against another penitentiary employee in another prison? Of course, it did not result in mortal injury, but it could have resulted if the penitentiary officer had not been protected. Didn't we have a matter of hostage custody recently by prisoners? I don't think you're gonna deny that, too. And where do I end up? Every three and a few things we have issues. As long as the Ministry is overly concerned, I would say the rights of the prisoners, the more the cases of violence are multiplied by prisoners against prisoners. It is good to see your provision for student grants to penitentiary staff in order for them to go to the Open University. It is good and we are voting in favour of it. It is good to create "Korydallus II" with the address of the women's department, the prison in question with the many problems. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] But here, the problem is generalised and very strong. So give penitentiary officials the opportunity and wishes to control the country's prisons. And clash - if you have to do this - with some ideological rightmakers who direct the debate on penitentiary in other directions. Finally - and I thank you for the tolerance, Mr President, I shall end - I will not resist temptation. As the spokesman has cured and adopted dead animals from the street, I would now like to draw up the unacceptable bill on pet strays and pet animals, which the Minister has fortunately withdrawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u216	He's retired to be discussed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u217	But he's threatening - and philosophers take it as a threat - that he'll bring it back within a month. I look forward to the new legislative initiative. He's got a lot to fix. But I have to say that. So far - and I am closing with this - this government has made people's lives considerably more difficult in this country. I am convinced that, with its legislative initiatives, it will not succeed, because it will be an unprecedented negative achievement to make the lives of animals more difficult in that country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u218	Thank you, Mr. Panagiotopoulos. The Minister for Tourism, Mr Kountoura, the Deputy Minister for Finance, Mr Papanatsiou, and the Minister for Culture, Mr Konordos, have requested the floor to develop their amendments. It won't take more than one or two minutes each. Mrs. Kundura has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u219	Thank you very much. The first article of the amendment is provision for the advertising of EOTs and promotion and promotion in third countries. With regard to the first Article in the first paragraph, the procedure and the determination of the payment documents of the relevant costs for the execution of space-time contracts in the media and communication media relating to the implementation of the promotion and promotion programme drawn up by the EOT by its own means and with material supplied by it by means of an authorised provision for the adoption of a relevant decision of the Ministers for Finance and Tourism shall be regulated. This competence for the tourism promotion and promotion of Greece and abroad, which is the most basic function of the EOT, is regulated in our legislation at No. 3270/2004. Through the provision of a relevant decision by the Finance and Tourism Ministers, we have covered an empty legislative procedure, which is currently in existence in terms of the procedure for paying the costs of these agreements, because all these agreements have always been concluded by a Minister's decision on the procedure for all contracts with the necessary authorisation of the public accounting code. In our case, however, the EOT conventions have particular characteristics so that a special ministerial decision on the part of the two Ministers needs to be taken in order to regulate the details on the basis of these specific features of the contracts, given that they are space and time-sharing contracts. The second paragraph of the proposed provision attempts, respectively, to fill an existing legislative gap in the execution of programmes for the promotion and promotion of public relations and of all kinds of promotional and promotional action, such as our participation in exhibitions or tourist events outside the European Union. We want it to be applied to the Greek Tourism Organisation, which is applied in proportion to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, always under the approval of the board of directors of the EOT. As far as the countries that exist in the EOT are concerned, as we have said, the implementation of the Agency of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as far as the countries that we do not have offices are concerned, then the central agency is concerned only with the implementation of the programmes for promotion, advertising and public relations, such as participation in exhibitions and programmes. And, of course, it enables us to cooperate with local Greek diplomatic and consular authorities. We are in agreement with the Independent Public Procurement Authority, which is essentially recommending this provision, because it regulates our problem and is compatible, as they have pointed out, with Union law and are therefore permissible, but as long as the estimated value is below the relevant Community limits. The second article of the amendment is tourist accommodation in buildings of architectural heritage. We are given the possibility of accommodation of any form and category, main and non-predominant, to operate in designated buildings as preserved or newer monuments or with a traditional character. This provision provides a way out of business that is non-main hotel accommodation, i.e. basically small and medium-sized enterprises wishing to operate in a characterised building as a traditional or preserved monument or monument, and at the moment they cannot because the law does not allow them to do so. This provision will stimulate business activity and will positively affect the competitiveness of Greek accommodation business and improve these cultural buildings at the same time. The European Union, acknowledging the importance of this business, has incorporated it into the priorities of the 2014-2020 Rural Development Programme, and as the Ministry of Rural Development told us, there is a huge investment interest in small buildings with a limited number of rooms so that they can join the Leader programmes, which unfortunately end very soon, so it is urgent for this regulation to go through. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] The third article of the amendment - and I am closing down - is the transitional provision for tourist ports. With this article we are giving an extension by 2020, so that the deadline for submitting the supporting documents referred to in the law can be applied to existing tourist ports. This provision aims at restoring the well-functioning operation of existing tourist ports, which are currently deprived of authorisation, following a relevant provision of the 2014 Law, which enabled them to operate permanently, provided that they have properly submitted a number of supporting documents up to a specific deadline. The current provision extends the above deadline until 2020 in order to allow those tourist ports to be licensed for all or part of them following the submission of the relevant request for supporting documents. The provision covers all existing tourist ports. This prolongs the possibility of the immediate resolution of chronic problems of the use of tourist ports and port infrastructure through legal operation and, at the same time, facilitates the state control of all tourist ports regardless of the time of their creation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u220	Mr President, may I have the floor for some clarification?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Amyras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, I would like to make this clear in relation to the first article of the amendment: Changes in the way in which a joint Ministerial decision is taken, will the expenditure be approved, so as to say it, so that these contracts can be paid, in which case? Is they being tolerated? Aren't they starting if they don't change their way - to say it like that - quick payment of them? Is that it? Secondly, how many contracts are we talking about and why are we talking about? If you would like, please give us a picture of the country's total advertising line via EOT to the outside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u223	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u224	Madam Minister, Mrs Kefalidou will speak, and you will answer the whole question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to ask you about Article 3 from where Mr Amyras left it. If I'm not mistaken, there's a bill now tabled and it's about tourist ports, shipping, etc. Why do you bring it to us as an amendment and do not put it in the bill, so that there is time to discuss it? This is something that concerns us with regard to the whole structure of the amendment you are bringing. So I make a proposal to you: can you take Article 3, since there is a plenary session of the Ministry of Shipping tomorrow, bring it there? It has nothing to do with the previous ones, one has to do with the EOT contracts, the other has to do with the traditional settlements, the third with the tourist ports. Why don't you bring it there? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u226	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u227	As far as you are concerned, in promotion and promotion, unfortunately our money is very little. We are trying to take part in all the exhibitions and make promotion and advertising in very specific instruments, which have been the same in recent years. We do not have the economic opportunity to show ourselves as we would like and as is appropriate in our own country, we have become a very great tourist power. Their total for public relations, for large events, for our exhibitions, to rent spaces, to make exposure to very specific tourists, travel, digital media are the same, nothing has changed. Unfortunately, our money is too little. It is a total of about 7 million for the forty reports that we are going and about 7 million for all the other actions. By analogy, what to say is funny money, but that is what we need to make use of. What you asked me has nothing to do with expenditure is about the payment procedure. If you remember, because I had brought the commercial, what's the problem? It is that the EOT in the past was excluded from everything and did not enter special provisions. We, as a government, do not want EOT to be excluded from anything. We want it to follow rules, so that there are no problems that have been created in the past. These rules for getting in, stipulate that for these contracts, because they need specific supporting documents which are not all of the wider public sector, a joint ministerial decision of the Minister of Finance and mine must be made, which defines all the documents required by the Commissioner for the procedure to be transparent. That's all. As far as this matter is concerned, this extension simply comes to be given, because it is over and urgent to be given...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u228	Tomorrow there's a plenary.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u229	No, I don't know who you're talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u230	But it has a bill from the Ministry of Shipping.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u231	Listen to me. First of all, it's not shipping, it's tourism.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u232	There's tourists in it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u233	There's also tourist facilities.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u234	No, you're wrong. The Department of Shipping has nothing to do with tourism.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u235	The bill has for tourist recreational boats...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u236	No, no, listen to me. It's not my responsibility...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u237	But it's related.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u238	May I?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u239	Mr. Amyras, you don't sound.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u240	It doesn't matter. The Ministry of Tourism has too many functions. This is my responsibility, the extension is over, I have to give it, because otherwise it's all in the air. It is urgent and has nothing to do with the relevance of the bill which is of the Ministry of Shipping. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u241	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u242	Mr President, I ask for the floor to be clarified.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u243	No, we've made it a topical question. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u244	In twenty seconds, I'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u245	Mr. Amyras, you'll be placed...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u246	I request the floor. You'll understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u247	It can't be done. Two other ministers will follow...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u248	In twenty seconds I'll be done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u249	He'll need an answer later. So, how's it going to be? It's not a point of order. Did you request clarifications and other explanations in the proceedings?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u250	But it's a matter of...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u251	Mr. Amyras, please help the process a little.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u252	But I am asking for the floor on a point of order. Give me the floor and you'll understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u253	Mr Amyras, you have the floor and I ask you to be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u254	In twenty seconds, I'll be done. Madam Minister, I would not be up to tell you what I am about to say now, but if the EOT advertising expenditure is related to the Racial Violence Legislation Legislation more than with the Maritime Ministry's bill, which has inside and tourist issues, I say that you are making a wrong assessment, you are wrong to categorisation, because it is a question of good legislation, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u255	Mr. Amyuras, you could say that in your position.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u256	But he'll be gone after.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u257	And when you make your speech, there are all the ministers here you're talking about, aren't you? Mrs. Kundura, would you like to answer? I don't think there's any reason to get in the process...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u258	Let me explain.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u259	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u260	We are, ladies and gentlemen, aware of how Parliament works. This is urgent. I had testified it for a long time, and it came out today. I could not know what draft law could come, which, in your view, is relevant. It is urgent, and I have brought it in, and I support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u261	Madam Minister, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u262	Another matter was urgent, however, to do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u263	Ladies and gentlemen, please. Mrs. Papanatsiou has the floor. Mrs Papanatsiou, I hope that, with your development, we will not end up with a timely question as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u264	I hope so, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u265	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u266	Thank you, Mr President. This amendment, with a general number of 1542 and a special number of 153 and the first Article, gives an extension of the time limits of No 4270/2014, which are for the issue of netting orders, for the purpose of carrying out the corresponding accounting records and for the performance of SPCs in cases of public investment, as well as for the conduct of regular accounting records and the occurrence of the costs of the consular authorities carried out in the financial year 2017 in the State budget. It's an extension of one month. That is what is happening so that we can have all this information on better implementation of the budget. The departments that have taken over the responsibilities are new. Responsibilities of the Financial Control Services have been transferred to the Directorate-General for Economic Services and we ask for the extension of one month to enable them to work. In the second article, especially for the payments of the 2017 public investment programme of the Ministry of Economy and Development, and by way of derogation from any other general and specific provision, the Financial Supervision and Control Services, which have now received this obligation to the Prefectures, are defined for the first year as authorising officers, to whom the relevant appropriations are transferred and they issue the relevant netting orders for the occurrence of payments made by the regions in execution of collective decision-making by the Minister of Economy and Development, of the so-called RDPs, as we all know. It's the first year. They're not ready yet. We are only asking for this to be done this year. The third article is the abolition of Article 25 of sub-paragraph (d) of Article 2 of L.4336/2015. What's this about? Costs of travellers within and outside the territory. It is for the Members of the Government and the State Secretarys who do not have the status of parliament under the terms and conditions that such expenditure is paid for both the parliamentarians of the province and provided for in the decision of Parliament under number 6701-27-12, as amended and valid. The provisions of the proposed Article have been repealed since both the provision of Article 25 of sub-paragraph (d) of Article 2 of L.4336/2015 and the Decision No 2/73/4-1-2016 of the Minister of Finance in respect of this arrangement have been applied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u267	Thank you, Minister. The Minister for Culture, Mr Connordos, has the floor for her own amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u268	The problems that have arisen in the area of collective management are well known, with consequences for both beneficiaries and the market, for users of intellectual works. The Government has intervened both with the new Law 4481/2017 and with other legislative initiatives to regulate problems in the field of collective management. Given that ODAs are authorised by the relevant Minister of Culture to function and the withdrawal of their authorisation is provided for in the existing legal framework as a penalty in the event of infringements, this amendment comes in order to regulate the landscape precisely after the withdrawal of the authorisation to any OAU or ADD under Article 50 of Law 4451/2018. This arrangement is in accordance with Directive 2014/26 of the European Union, as incorporated into Greek law by Law 4481 and detailed in the explanatory memorandum. The reasons that led us to this regulation are, above all, the public interest, the need to protect culture, the modern creation and the rights of all the beneficiaries, to respect the legality of intellectual works users, not to harm financial stability and to have an internationally sensitive presence as a country in the field of intellectual property. The withdrawal of the authorisation for the operation of PSOs or of PDOs referred to in Article 50 shall be subject as an administrative sanction in the event of serious infringements of intellectual property rights laws. However, withdrawal of the licence may in some cases lead to market deregulation and fragmentation, which will ultimately be detrimental to both beneficiaries and users and the economy in general. This is why we are amending Article 69 of Law 2121/1993 so that the responsibilities of the IPO can be added to the competence of exceptional collective management. The purpose of the exceptional collective management is therefore to manage the rights of the beneficiaries for a short period of time which may not exceed two years and until a new Collective Management Agency is set up. It is therefore recommended to the Intellectual Property Organisation that a special Intellectual Property Agency with the following responsibilities should be set up: to take all necessary steps to ensure the temporary and exceptional management of the rights of the rightholders of AOI or AOI of Article 50, which has been revoked. To conclude new award and representation contracts with beneficiary members. Receive, distribute and pay the rights received to the beneficiaries. Enforcement of the legality, use of rights by copyright users, who in the case of a lack of an organisation managing rights, are allowed to commit offences of the unlawful use of intellectual property projects. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I'm going to need some more time, Mr. President. Of course, in the context of the freedom of contracts, the beneficiaries and IACs have the right to oppose this delegation and representation by the Intellectual Property Organisation, subject to the conditions laid down in the proposed provision. In other words, within 60 days of the publication of the decision setting up the Extensive Management Office, they may notify the Intellectual Property Organisation in writing of a declaration that they do not wish to be represented by it. The Extraordinary Management Service shall be governed by the provisions applicable to IAS in matters of transparency, information and accountability. It shall have a general meeting of members and a supervisory board. In the interests of the beneficiaries and in order to achieve the objective of the exceptional management, the Intellectual Property Organisation shall ensure that all information held by the IAS is transferred, the licence of which has been revoked. This information was available because precisely the beneficiaries had trusted them in order to exercise collective management of their rights. Finally, provision shall be made for the setting-up of a new ADP, giving the general meeting of members of the Special Management Agency to decide on the Agency for Collective Management, which will also manage their rights before the completion of the operating time of the Special Management Service. The vote on this amendment is necessary for collective management of copyright, because it is both preventive and dissuasive. For the time being, the withdrawal of the authorisation for the operation of SADs or of ADDs referred to in Article 50 has been an empty letter in the event of infringements. It could not be imposed without repercussions on the beneficiary members themselves, as it was irregulated the scope for what would happen after the withdrawal, in particular where an IAC or AOD or an AOD of Article 50 had a dominant position on the market. With this supplement, its revocation has ceased to be inapplicable. We therefore invite you to vote on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u269	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Kefalidou has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u270	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, there has been little time since we discussed the copyright bill in this Chamber. It was emblematic, as you said, that would provide solutions and put an end to the problems with gray zones and empty letters. Today, you come to bring in an amendment. First, is there consultation? Secondly, what practical problems does the amendment you bring to an end? Is this all about GDPI? There are reports that rather photograph that your attempt is about GDPI. What are you thinking of doing with the deadlock that has reached the issues of non-payment of copyright? So, is this an amendment to go to the foot, at night? Can you explain to us what emergency is? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u271	Mr. Amyras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u272	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, first of all I disagree with the fact that such an important regulation is being proposed as an amendment. It is a serious regulation, because, in fact, what it tells us is that, in the event of a withdrawal of the GNI licence, by ministerial decision and assent from the Board of Directors of the Intellectual Property Organisation, this work of GNI will be entrusted to the Agency. I think we agree on that, but I would ask you to clarify it to us. So the first is whether the OPI is actually the successor of the GNI. Secondly, we are or will be the only country in the world, if this amendment is voted on in which the representation of copyright is entrusted to a state, in essence, structure. Also, by following and reading the amendment, I see that there are some flaws in the Minutes, which will be realistic, that we will find them before us in life. In other words, there is no necessary infrastructure in the OPCW, nor the staff to undertake the management of copyright. For the special service for the emergency management of rights, you have told us that it will depend on the adoption of a joint ministerial decision. That is why it is important not to come with such an amendment. I ask: is there any provision for expenditure? Is there any provision for determining the expenditure for the temporary manager, for equipment, for consultants, for operating costs? One more thing. Possibly, because we know that the GFCMs are issued at the rate of araba, there is a gap in which the creators will fall and fall, just to say it, the creators themselves. Until then, tell me who will represent and who will renew rights protection contracts with foreign and foreign companies? Who? This special service? And one more serious thing, Minister. What will happen with the Creatives and Projects files? It is foreseen in this amendment that the OPI is not responsible for destruction or alteration of a digital project file. We are talking about the property of millions of euros and the body that will be responsible for managing copyright is telling us that it does not bear any responsibility as to whether your projects are destroyed. This is a matter, Minister. What do we suggest? We are proposing what many artists are saying, the creation of a collective management company that will replace GDPI, the transfer of the GDPI portfolio to this body on the basis of a basic criterion (a) to meet the requirements of artists' creators and (b) to collect the direct benefits of the public. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u273	Mr. Panayotopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u274	Thank you, Mr President. I shall refer to the amendment tabled by the honourable Minister for Culture, but also to others. Now look at the amendments tabled through the plenary debate is a convenient way for the government to regulate and go through issues, not extensive, but a fundamental debate in this House. You see in the many details there are in many of these topics that are hidden many "diabetes", as they say in my village. So I think that's not a way. For example, in the area of copyright, as far as I understood from the position of the Minister, we first have a question of derogating from the provisions of the public accounting system without documentary evidence on the exceptional grant of the new body. We also have another issue where the supervising officer becomes a collector. The controls of the collectors shall also be carried out by the same collectors. What logic is this? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] These things give us too many reservations about the validity of the legislative initiative of the amendment. That is why I call for the amendment to be withdrawn in order to create room for normal debate in committee and in plenary, by calling for the hearing of all relevant bodies, creators, in order to reach an in-depth view on how to proceed with this issue. Otherwise, there are very serious reservations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u275	Thank you, Mr. Panayotopoulos. Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u276	As far as the amendment by the Ministry of Culture is concerned, we are going to be very specifically placed in dentistry, but we would like to ask some questions, to see how exactly we are going to be. First of all, as we read the amendment, it essentially comes to serve the commercialisation and exploitation of intellectual and related rights, and indeed it seems that it writes in its old shoes the collective procedures of the institutions. That's a prisoner, it's an observation. Of course, the management possibilities you give the Intellectual Property Organisation have other side effects, but I will say in secondary. One of the questions we want to ask is whether the government really wanted to solve the problem, because this amendment does not expressly and exclusively refer to the case of GDPI, the Anonymous Company of Intellectual Property, as a sole speculative company, which manages copyright and which could institutionalise its transformation process into self-managed by the authors of collective management. That's the one question. Also, why is this amendment - an opportunity - not a single measure for the GNI workers who are currently in the air? They are in the air and the danger there is is that these people have a great deal of experience in managing copyright, which will be lost if the labour issue is not resolved. In any case, we consider it incomplete. Apart from leading to commercialisation, it is also incomplete and we will call for this amendment to be withdrawn so that there can be a regulation which will deal exclusively with the problem of the functioning of GDP and of the passage, of course, in the hands of its authors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u277	Thank you, Mr. Synthraki. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u278	I would like to stress that this special transitional service in no way is a state agency. As is well known, the OPI is a private body supervised by the State. Thus, both SGEI and AOI are supervised by the State, on the basis of their authorisation. This body is also independent and self-financed. Except where necessary, exceptional grant may be granted. However, the Greek taxpayer is not charged, because this exceptional grant will be returned to the public through the IPO, on the basis of the last article of the amendment. Now, for the files you have spoken about, as I mentioned before, these files actually represent the confidence of the beneficiaries to the company. Therefore, when the licence is withdrawn, it has the right of an operator - whose task is to regulate the market, protect the beneficiaries, help users - to use this file without expropriating it. He has a right to use it to serve the copyright of the rightholders. Then each creator is free, if he wants, not to join that file and be able to go wherever he wants his rights. This is therefore done for reasons of public interest and for the protection of rights, and even for the protection of culture, of contemporary creation, which is currently threatened by developments. However, I would like to stress that it is not only about GDP. It concerns any ADR or AFS that can be found in similar circumstances. Therefore, the law is not just for one case, but for anything that is presented in the future, comparable to that. The consultation has taken precedence because all relevant bodies have been informed. For some time now, they have been given the intention of the Ministry for this solution, for this amendment. They've been informed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u279	Can we know their opinion?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u280	Their views are very diverse. She's a diameter different.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u281	Will you tell us what's urgent?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u282	The urgency is that the market must be immediately regulated and we must take immediate decisions, because there has been enough time for solutions to be given.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u283	Mr President, I would like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u284	We can't go on with this. You have taken the floor, you have received clarifications and you will receive them after the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u285	My own, Mr President, have not been answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u286	Now that you're talking to your dentistry, you'll have the opportunity to place yourself. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, thirty-seven students and students and two educational attendants from the 1st Edessa High School (second section). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Black, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u287	Thank you, Mr President. I'll start with the last one. First of all, it is problematic that the ministers who come for the amendments speak much more than the Minister with the bill. Let's start with this observation. Regarding the amendment to the OPI, the Intellectual Property Organisation, you say that it will not be state-owned. Who will effectively designate the audit committee? Won't the state define it? Aren't you going to define it, the Ministry? From that point of view, as far as we are concerned, the only ones who agree on this consultation are those who had begun to undertake the consolidation of GDP through Commissioners and so on. And they've finally failed. And I am talking about unions, such as the 'MA', which are known to have very good relations with the government, unless I am mistaken. There has been no other process of consultation on how to save the business plan, which should have been created. The only deal is with this club, I'd say. In general, this will result in the organisation being supervised and controlled by a structure which is also controlled - a patent unique in the world - and at the moment there is a collective management organisation, which could - not only by GDP, there are others, such as 'auto-management' - playing the role for a transitional period, so as not to go to such problems. Neither has foreign agencies been consulted on this matter nor on the users. There are objections, as I told you, from unions, such as "METRON", which we read in newspapers last Sunday. In other words, there is a question of discussion and consultation. What I would suggest to you is that you withdraw the amendment at present and in a month to bring it back, after all this consultation with the institutions has taken place, so that we can go to a solution that is more comprehensive and optimal for both authors and users. That is what we are talking about in this particular amendment. I'd like to go to the bill now. Almost every time we come to a meeting on ratification of an international convention, such as today, the incorporation of a directive and a general obligation of the country, two things are sure: the first is that it has come out of time, and the second is that it has also come out with many incomprehensible provisions that are intruding. I would remind you that today we were going to discuss the Istanbul Convention, family violence, etc. We haven't heard a lot about it. We are talking more about everything else, about the amendments which are being tabled, about the police, about the GSP, about the financing of the parties and other amendments. In other words, we are inappropriate to the real content that this should have. Let me say a few things about the contents of the bill. With regard to the second part, which concerns the framework decision, we have a delay there. In fact, we should have complied by 28 March 2011 with Decision 299/2009. Yesterday, that is on March 28, 2018, we erased seven candles in this cake of delay. To be fair, it is not just the current government that is to blame for it. The responsibility lies with the previous governments too. Of course, there are other provisions in this bill which do not lack your favourite term 'extraordinary', a legislative practice for which, when you were in opposition and such things were coming to the bars - and rightly so - but now that you are in the government, you find it convenient or necessary, and you are in favour of this process too. I would like to say a few words about the Istanbul Convention, which is an integrated framework for dealing with racial violence and abuse, an important step in the efforts of the Council of Europe to ensure respect for women's rights. I hope, in passing, that the Council of Europe is the most progressive and daring forum, not only in Europe but globally, what it has to do with rights and institutions. Domestic violence and violence against women in all its forms, verbal, physical and psychological, is an extremist expression of race sovereignty and has emerged in Europe as a central theme of human rights violations. In the remaining part of Part Three, which has the logical provisions for the Ministry of Justice, we are very cautious because it includes micro-administrations and micro-management by way of exceptions, as we have said in committees and our rapporteur, Mr Lykoudi, said. I shall refer to some of the amendments in the last two minutes of my speech. I will start with Amendment No 1530 and Amendment No 147 on the mobility of civil servants, which removes the requirement of an organisation, namely a description of positions and an establishment plan, to the host institutions. In other words, we are enacting by one hand the institutions, the organograms, the contours of positions, and the other hand we are legislating, saying: 'That's all right. And if they do not exist, we will be able to make mobility normally." In other words, bodies will be able to order civil servants in their best interests so as not to undo the system. It is essentially the refusal to apply what we are legislating, that is why we are legislating on extensions, ruptures, etc. As far as the funding of the parties is concerned, we have said in the discussion of the parties' loans that outright lending distorts the political game in favour of the big ones. It is interpretative and states that 50% of State funding cannot be granted to banks for loan guarantees. In other words, it is clear that this also applies to loans which have been entered into in the past, i.e. that they will have retroactive effect. And the question is whether the banks will be able to claim this money. The other question is, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, whether on the one hand we are doing a committee of inquiry on the loans of the parties, as has been done, and on the other hand you are bringing such a provision, namely whether it is compatible. Let me close by saying that now that the Communism sees the methods it has used to come to power - extreme activism, demonstrations, refusal to consent, hate rhetoric - turn boomerang, let us consider where populism and demagogy lead. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I just want thirty seconds, Mr President. And the opposition, however, should not become the 2014 SYRIZA to run counter to SYRIZA 2018. Because we have in front of us, both national and economic, and we are in a key year not for the next few years, perhaps for the next generations, we must find a way to speak frankly - I mean the forces of the democratic arch - without re-changing, without underestimating traits. Polarization, cultivated by the government and Civicism, can suit themselves, but it does not suit the country. And we need to figure that out before it's too late. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u288	Thank you, Mr. Mavrota. Mrs Cavadia has the floor on behalf of SYRIZA. Immediately after Ms. Kefaliannis and Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u289	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today is - or at least should be - a very special day. Unfortunately, there is a risk - and I am saying this inadvertently - that the very importance of the debate we should have done here on this important convention would be diminished. This is because, among other things, there are some who choose, despite the government's express explanations, to move back into communication. They choose to build up, for example, the problems of drug trafficking in campus sites, where, for six whole days, they have not written a word about prosecuting a criminal offence against a particular businessman who is accused of possession, trafficking and funding of drugs and of setting up a criminal organisation. We understand that because the water can't be done. So I return by saying that it should be a separate day, because ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and domestic violence, which we are moving forward, is a major step in the area of human, individual and civil rights. The Istanbul Convention is a conquest that justifies struggles and efforts for many years on the part of the feminist movement, struggles and efforts for real equality regardless of sex, struggles and efforts, which will of course continue, as a law is never enough. However, this convention, which we are currently dominating, seven years after it was signed by our country, will provide us with a more equipped and effective legal weaponry that will greatly facilitate the next battles against sexism and patriarchy. Therefore, because of the importance of the subject, I choose to allocate the time of my intervention solely to the part concerning the contract itself. Ladies and gentlemen, it would be common to say that we live in a world of inequality. For some people and some in this Chamber, these inequalities are fatal, inevitable and even desirable. For us, however, on the left, discrimination in public social and economic life are unparalleled conditions that run counter to the awkward project of a fair society. Unfortunately, once again, the figures on the position of women are very revealing. A recent investigation by the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights shows that the situation regarding racial violence is much more difficult than we have already known and naturally suspected. According to this survey, in Europe, which is proud of its achievements in the field of rights, one out of three women over 15, or sixty-two million women in the European Union, have been victims of physical violence, with three and a half thousand women dying every year in the twenty-eight countries - members due to cases of domestic violence. Unfortunately, from this dark image Greece could not be missing, with the economic crisis reminiscent of how painfully reversible the feminist movement is, how fragile the standard, legal gender equality towards neoliberal, right-wing and deep conservative attacks, how easy it is to bring social restrictions and female exclusions back when economic pie is less dangerous. The unemployment and job precariousness that the memorials brought first hit the women's door, always, of course, together with the other dimensions of women's identity, social order, age, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, education, origin. Yes, indeed, the crisis made things worse. But in reality, what he did was to step up already existing problems, both in Greece and internationally. Why is the reality, ladies and gentlemen? Was it not and continues to be the absence of equal opportunities at work, but also of social life, wage inequalities, sexual harassment, stereotype prevalence of social roles, obvious or underground sexism, verbal and physical violence, and even in the family environment? Obviously nothing has changed since the battle of textile workers in March 1857, or since the sophazettes, those heroic women's emancipation pioneers, opened up new difficult roads. However, there is still much to be done and there is a great deal to be done to safeguard them. In this respect, the ratification of the Istanbul Convention will constitute not only a symbolic link but also a major interference and adaptation of Greek legislation in order to consolidate and protect fundamental rights in order to combat various forms of racial violence, in order to ensure that the victims of this racial violence are protected. The regulations introduced by the twelve chapters and eighths of an articles of the Convention cover issues that start with civil lawsuits and support services and reach rape, domestic violence, forced marriage. Undoubtedly, the ratification and incorporation into our national legislation of this convention fulfil an important European obligation vis-à-vis the Council of Europe, an obligation which was constantly highlighted to us in Strasbourg and, indeed, included in the latest periodic report of the Parliamentary Assembly on our country, which was adopted in plenary last January. At the same time, with the adoption of this bill, a brave and powerful legal grid is best complemented, including the extension of the cohabitation pact to homosexual couples and the legal recognition of gender identity. In this triad of progressive legislation that we have brought as the left-wing government, we can also add the draft law to promote essential gender equality and to combat racial violence, which the Ministry of Interior has already put into public consultation. It is therefore a quadrant of laws that demonstrate SYRIZA's persistence in its plan for progressive social transformation to leave the country from the Memorandum in terms of social justice. Ladies and gentlemen - and I will conclude with this - the philosophy of Simone De Bovarre that 'woman is not born, you are', which was meant to mark the feminist movement and which remains constantly current, reminds us that gender behavior is the result of experienced political, social, cultural and economic conditions. By changing these conditions through legislative initiatives, through the activist action of each and every one of us, through our personal attitude and collective action, we eventually transform our roles, abolishing stereotypes, denying and denying choices that others want to make on our behalf. Every legislation on rights is a pretext, enlargement and enrichment of our democracy. These are our thoughts leaving Parliament today, having voted in favour of an extremely important bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u290	Thank you, Mrs. Cavadia. Madam Minister, would you like to answer Mr Mavrota?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u291	Does Mrs. Kefaliannis want to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u292	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u293	No, he said he'd be placed later so you wouldn't be delayed. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u294	Mr. Mavroy, consultation has taken place. It has taken precedence with all clubs and all stakeholders and not just those who have them well with the government, as you mentioned. GNISCH (DR). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his The market has collapsed and immediate measures need to be taken. We cannot delay because we need to provide for the protection of the vast majority of our country's creators who are currently fighting. They must be given the opportunity to collect their rights in order to live now. It's now a matter of survival. Therefore, we can no longer delay. Otherwise, if we let more time pass, we risk creating such a deregulation in the market that will take years before the creators see a redistribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u295	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Kefaliannis, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u296	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today the Greek Parliament ratifys the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combat of Violence against Women and domestic violence. We, for our part, welcome the incorporation into national law of a stronger institutional framework for combating and in any way combating covert or non-family violence, racial or age inequalities, although the government has been late for three and a half years, as the Istanbul Convention entered into force on 1 August 2014. The myth, therefore, of the monopoly of the social sensitivity of the Left holds well: First of all in words, last of all in actions. Ladies and gentlemen, the ratification of the Istanbul Convention is undoubtedly an important step forward for further substantial advancement and strong human rights in the country. But it's not good enough. It is necessary to organise efficient and functional structures and public authorities on the basis of scientific and not a 'days' cathedral, in order to create small party armies in public administration. For all of this, of course, we need a government which understands that the mechanisms that farm tolerance and deaf in every form of violence, harm national self-respect, harm the country itself. Unfortunately, in our efforts to respond to the well-known regularities of this government, I should be putting forward to my position today on the subject of the amendment on collective management. I would, of course, like to make a small comment on the amendment tabled by the Minister for Tourism. Mrs Koundoura runs and does not go again by tabling amendments and in practice by proving that Greek tourism is on the automatic pilot and goes without a plan, without a strategy, with air in the sails that we have given her in previous years. Until when? I shall now proceed with the amendment of the Ministry of Culture. Once again we experience the impossibility of the government in parliamentary procedures. You have surprised us - deliberately, as usual - to introduce the amendment into plenary today in an unconstitutional manner. In other words, you are looking at the possibility for the competent bodies and for the creators, as well as for the users, through the dialogue between the parliamentary committees to help find the best solution on such a complex issue. You have failed, despite the fact that for three years you have been in a process of finding a solution. You led the creators to deadlock and their rights at risk. Law 4481/2017 was passed with the aim of allegedly refining the market and supporting the creators. He actually gave the kiss of life to GNI. With your acrobatisms and amateurism we have lost the opportunity of our proper harmoniousness with the 2014 European Directive which has been successfully tested in larger market countries than the Greek one. We had already warned you since the summer that this law, which obviously emerged from the composition of self-determination experts, leads to a dead end. Among other things, you have chosen to ignore the need to safeguard the right to direct intervention in the impasse that has arisen in the case of GNI. You continue to repeat the same mistake. You are now introducing an amendment which gives authors some hope for delayed collection of the amounts due, but we fear that it will not work properly. You are confined to the creation of a temporary state management body, with a temporary administration of a civil servant, without express reference to the transition process to an IAS, with the risk that the temporary is ultimately permanent. In other words, you are privatising, even temporarily, collective management and talking about a transitional framework, and you are not telling us what we are going to go through. Another unconstitutional appearance of this amendment lies in the self-evident transfer of the contracts for the award and representation of the beneficiary artists managing the GAAP as an AEO to a state body. It is an unprecedented State interference with the private initiative with unprecedented implications regarding the constitutional rights of Greek beneficiaries. It is a legally unprecedented practice and awkward constitutional practice. We will not remain in the position that Greece will be the only country in Europe after the European Union's right-management directive has been transposed, even temporarily, by the state. I will not stick to the fact that the amendment does not give a solution to all the outstanding issues. We will emphasise the fact that there are secret legal issues which you have overlooked because of the clandestineness you have shown on such a complex issue. They'll emerge on the surface and dynamite this last minute's effort. The substance of your amendment runs counter to the Constitution at its core. The OPI, as the audit authority of AEOs, is converted into AEOs while remaining a audit authority. In addition, a hybrid entity is created, which will exist only on paper and will in fact be inapplicable. You don't have an establishment plan or an establishment plan to operate this entity. All you have guaranteed clearly and with great care is the temporary manager, a temporary manager with unlimited powers and powers that will bind the rights of authors and will be called upon to safeguard their interests. Moreover, your fine amendment does not include any other elements of exercising such a special competence that the State will now exercise and should be fine. You know this and that is why your hybrid body is exempted from the public procurement provisions - general and specific - in order to provide fire-fighting solutions to the so demanding work it has to carry out for two years. So we see that, at the suggestion of the Almighty Temporary Administrator, the State-funded IMI can recruit staff of various specialties, simple officials and everything else that emerges, obviously on the way, without a limit, without a structure, with state funding. Of course, the financial costs for the State for the establishment and operation of this newly established hybrid entity are being avoided. Who's going to take it? The creators? The taxpayers? Unknown. Another visible risk that the creators will be asked to face is the fragmentation of the market. Madam Minister, take care of that. You overlook the fact that LOGs are operating on a simple notification. How will the simultaneous functioning of the new state management body and private ATO be balanced? Obviously, the authorisation of AOCs should now be carried out by the APRC, otherwise you are putting the State in a competitive position vis-à-vis all private rights management organisations and at the same time fragmenting the market. Right now, Minister, we are not oppositioning. We want a practicable solution to be found and, in fact, immediately. We care about the rights of authors, because a country without creators or discouraged creators lacks artistic expression. We have, however, inspired that, unfortunately, you do not learn from your mistakes and operate with encryption, with methods that refer to other kinds of societies. Despite our criticism and despite the fact that we highlight the gaps in your legislative work and the deadlocks, at least we call on you to describe the roadmap of transition to a rights management organisation for all. Either take the amendment back and bring it back in consultation, enabling authors and users to be placed in Parliament - not in your office - or even incorporate the procedure in the amendment to a collective management organisation. Respect the anguish of the creators. Give us some solutions. In that case, we will support you. We do not play with the fates and lives of Greek creators. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u297	Thank you, Mrs. Kefaliannis. The Parliamentary Representative of the River Mr George Amyras has the floor. Immediately afterwards, Mrs. Vlacho will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u298	Thank you, Mr President. I will continue a little on the issue of the OPI, telling you, dear Minister, Mr Conniordos, that consultation is not to call your office bodies and stakeholders. The consultation is that you put your plans in the public sphere, or in this regard this amendment, so that we, the parliamentary parties, can participate, because here we will be called upon to vote or vote against this provision. I would therefore tell you that the urgent procedure you have chosen was not the right one. Also, the Intellectual Property Organisation - the successor, I will say clearly, of GDP - clearly and clearly, despite the fact that it is a legal person under the supervision of your Ministry. So it's not an independent body, let alone when the administration of the organization is to be defined by you on your own decision. So why are we talking about some supposed independent organization? Let me say one more thing. It is important, Minister, and I would like you to clarify this. Is it excluded for these two years, the emergency cases - to say so - the Agency or the Management Committee, as it is said, from the Public Procurement Act? So an administration of this organization, which is, in fact, appointed by a minister, by a government, will be able to put aside the public procurement law and by direct commission to assign projects and pay? Please explain it to me. However, we are telling you to withdraw this amendment in order to sit down and discuss it in one of the next bills. Also, I will call you again from the Stepma to the Holy Temple of Saviour Transfiguration at Plaka to see that, through this cultural, I would say, pilgrimage possibly - if you believe - travel to this 11th century church, you may have better ideas in the case of GDPI. I now come to a second point on the issue of the eight Turkishs and the two Greeks. You see what it achieved, Mr Kontonis, the government's MP, putting in the same scale exceptionally, outside every mind, out of every principle of law, in their own balances eight Turks with the two Greeks? Does it concern you, Mr Kontonis, that HURIT had its headlines, headlines and celebrated indirectly? How difficult or not is the national effort - in relation to the issue of both Greek soldiers, who are still in Turkish prison today - but also the fragile balance or not, on various issues, of the Greek-Turkish relationship? Mr. Kontonis, I have seen you really bluntly against the parliamentary representative of the Democratic Integration, Mr. Theocharopoulos, but not a single word to liberate the irresponsible speech of a government MP, who has evolved into a dangerous speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u299	Did you hear me? Did you hear me?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u300	I heard you. Up to a point I heard you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u301	Did you hear me say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u302	Mr. Amyras! Minister, you don't sound.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u303	Within forty-eight hours...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u304	Within forty-eight hours, second irresponsible behavior.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u305	Second irresponsible behavior. I'll take it. Very good.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u306	Mr. Amyras, don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u307	And I do not doubt that you have not taken a position.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u308	Come on! Because I spoke this morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u309	Oh, no! No, no, no, no! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This isn't a tavern. Here is no tavern to say "go good," and it's not a field.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u310	Mr. Amyras, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u311	You can't...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u312	Listen, 'Go ahead', he'll tell me. This isn't a field. This isn't a field, you know?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u313	Mr. Amyras!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u314	Is that what I told you before? GEORGIOS AMYRAS I have carefully formulated my word. We have an irresponsible reason for a government MP. And while the tiles should have fallen from the House, from your reaction and the reaction of the government MPs, you are condoning us, who are putting an impediment to this irresponsible, dangerous reason on our national issues. "Get 'em good, not me!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u315	Is that what I told you, Mr. Amyras? I was placed this morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u316	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u317	Mr. Amyras, is that what I told you?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u318	Mr. Amyra, calm down. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u319	I said 'Good work' because I was.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u320	Good, and I told you that I didn't hear it badly, but not with a look of fans. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr President, these microphones will have to be fixed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u321	You're the one who opened the dialogue. Take it easy for you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u322	They pierced those microphones, someone to fix them. Well, I'm on it. Ladies and gentlemen, I will now speak about the amendment on the financing of the parties. You, the government, are you Government MPs SYRIZA - ANEL, haven't you made PASOK and New Democracy loans a flag? So why are you saying this? Firstly, with your first legal arrangement you said that 50%, half of the state funding that goes to the parties, cannot be allocated to the banks, while it was up to 90%. Who do you want to make it easy? This amendment is now coming. What's he telling us? That the parties that have received the various loans will not be able to grant more than 50% to the banks of state funding, regardless of the time when these loans were born. Well, are you going to drive us crazy? Do you want the parties to pay back the loans they have received or not? Then why are you cutting them off? Why are you cutting them to 50%? And secondly, what lending do you want to give them an air and not to pay the banks for previous years? Well, we want here to say this, what the river does. Or rather before I tell you what Potami is doing, I will remind you that we have recapitalised these banks three times, the 'flash banks', the first time with EUR 40.2 billion, the second with EUR 8.3 billion and the third with EUR 5.3 billion. You want the banks to get their money back, yes or no? Is it, or is it not,'red loans' to the parties? Is that how you're gonna set them up? By saying that the money we give as state funding to the parties, by now by 50% can they go to the bank to repay their'red loans'? Why do you do this, in fact, regardless of time? Now I'll tell you about the river. Today the River closed financially, as it has published the balance sheet for all these years. And here's the fact that the river has little expense, no waste and no loan. I don't understand why the parties have to get borrowed. They don't have party members? Do they not have their own transparent sources, as the law defines, of funding? Firstly, why should they take loans and secondly, state funding? I don't understand that. Even today, groups who have died, who are ghosts, are receiving hundreds of thousands of euros from their previous presence in Parliament. So this is how we do the atonement of the political world, against the black most of the time bank money that has flowed to their funds? What do we say? We say that all the balance sheets of each Party should be published on the official website, of course, of each party first and the annual balance sheets should be posted no later than 15 March of each year. Balance sheets should be published in the Official Journal of the Government, so that everyone knows which party has resigned, where his loan is red, what he repays and what is not. So I will tell you that Potami has managed to manage its revenue properly. In other words, we have an economic stability and a capital adequacy. Just to say, we have a primary surplus. So I would say: "Treme, Euclidis Chakaloto, come Theodorakis". Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Lykoudi told you very much about the bill. He's got positive provisions. We will be voting in favour of them. As far as the amendments are concerned, I would ask you - as I have said before - to withdraw them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u323	Thank you, Mr. Amyras. Mrs Vlacho has the floor on behalf of the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u324	Mr President, just a minute's speech, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u325	Just for a minute, Mr. Contony.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u326	Mr President, I had a very strong incident with the Parliamentary spokesman for the river, who just came down. I spoke so indignantly, because this morning I made a very clear mention - very clear - of Mr Theocharopoulos's statement and of Mr Katsiki's statement yesterday. So the parliamentary spokesman from the Plenary Step comes in and says, "You said nothing. You cover it...» etc., when I have spoken in a clear way on this matter. Secondly, because it has been heard twice - three times here today, the Government representative has expressed himself on the matter, including members of the MP party. Why, then, is the government being indicted? And why, Mr Amyras, do you personally attack me when I have spoken about this issue this morning and say that you have not spoken and have not raised a question? Do you not understand that if a minister or a government official is constantly in front of a virtual reality, he is in the end being indignant? You cannot tell us about something that has been said - and it has been said with urgency - that 'you have said nothing here'. We're indignant. And you should, in many, and I don't mean publicly, recognize that you were wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u327	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u328	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u329	Are we going to open a dialogue now? Come on, Mr. Amyras. There's nothing to open a dialogue. Mrs Vlacho, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u330	You don't need to, but you can't say anything you want here...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u331	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u332	Mr. Amyras, you don't sound. You have the ability to do second-guess you can tell us what you want. Come on, Mrs. Vlacho. You have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u333	Thank you, Mr President. This draft law is supposed to be aimed at preventing and combating violence against women and family violence. First of all, it is acceptable to everyone that both of these forms of violence must be dealt with effectively by a rule of law, both in terms of prevention and in terms of repression. However, the prerequisites for this to happen are firstly the state and, in particular, the government in question to show respect for women, not only with the words but also with the actions and, secondly, to pay particular attention to the main causes which contribute to increasing violence against women in modern Western societies. In both these areas, the SYRIZA Government, apparently swept away from its exquisite and Marxist ideas, has failed in advance. I explain: The Government has chosen for reasons of communication and symbolicness to introduce this legislation to the relevant committees on 8 March, which is the so-called 'World Women' Day'. Making a parentheses here, I must point out this, because at last we must stop being hypocritical and start saying the truths: The introduction of a "World Women's Day" directly offends us, women, undermines our personality and degrades our destination and our mission. It is unacceptable to treat ourselves as being some protected species or species for extinction. The woman is the foundation stone of our society, the reason why we all live and exist. Therefore, any alleged "World Women's Day" of use is of no use, except for the service of suspicious interests of specific organizations, which in the name of feminism directly hit the institution of the family and the traditional principles and values of our society. I return to the bill and the first debate in the committees held on 8 March, in the presence of the Prime Minister and many Ministers. I read the President-in-Office's opening suggestion to the SYRIZA Members' committees, Mrs Theleritis, in which she identifies women, for whom 8 March is supposed to be a day of proclaiming and fighting, in a series which is obviously also indicative of how women's role and image in our society are perceived by defenders of political correctness and of the New Order. He says, therefore, SYRIZA's colleague: "Today it is a fight and claim day for all women, those who are Roma, immigrant, women refugees, transgenders, gay, heterogeneous". Good thing he finally accepted to remember the heterosexuals. As a woman, as a mother and as a Greek nationalist, I have to say that from this perception of women's image, as presented in the light of aristocratic and neo-liberal perceptions, it separates me from chaos. The woman who really needs protection nowadays - and I am talking about our country, because she cares first of all - is the mother, who fights every day to ensure food for her children, is even more the multitude mother, who sees the abolition of the minimum privileges she has had up to now as a multitude, in order to subsidise illegal immigrants or Roma. She is the student in Thessaloniki, who is in danger of being raped by gangs of foreigners, if any she dares to be released in the areas of the Aristotle University during the afternoon or evening hours. It's Symposium and every stranger I've ever known who has suffered in the hands of imported criminals. Of course, it is not only Greeks who need protection, not just women citizens of European states. Both the Greek state and all the governments of Western society must protect the rights to the health and life of foreign women, who live under the state of Islamic violence and suffer humiliation, humiliation, beating and other torture in the name of Islamic law and sharia. With Islamic violence against women, both inside and outside the family, none of the authors of this legislation and the convention in force have dared to deal effectively and denounce the basic cause of these particular forms of violence. This cause is nothing but the relocation of hundreds of thousands of Muslims into western Christian societies and their attempt to impose their own culture and beliefs on our own way of life. I did not, however, see any of the so-called humanist and women's defenders, any of the SYRIZA and Left colleagues celebrating with majestics on the Women's Day every year on 8 March, saying even a word of condemnation of the violence of the bourgeois and Islamic law. And to end with hypocrisy, the Greeks do not need any European conventions or any other legislation, such as the proposed one, to protect us. It is only enough to walk in the footsteps of the glorious women of our nation who wrote history, of Bubulinna, of Manto Mavrogen, of Despina Javela and of the women of Pindos. So if you want to honor women, I suggest you something much better than any world day. Honor the national feasts of our country, honor the Greek women who struggled and sacrificed for our nation and faith. They show us the way. There you will look to find, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, the Left and the New Order, women of honor and struggle! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u334	Thank you, Mrs. Vlacho. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-five students and students and three educational attendances from the High School of Siatistas Kozanis. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Standing Committee on Economic Affairs submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘State the Agreement between the Competent Authority of the Hellenic Republic and the competent authority of the United States of America on the Exchange of Reports by Country and Implementing Provisions’. Mr Connordou has asked for a minute's speech for clarification and then Mr Doussinas will be speaking. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u335	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to reply to Mrs Kefaliannis, although she is not here now to hear the answer, as she was not before, when she was quite thoroughly - I think - I have exposed why the special body created to protect the intellectual rights of all the beneficiaries is not state-owned. But I raised the question of control. This government has a special awareness of the issue of control. It is well known that this government has started to control a pathogen which has been uncontrolled for decades and has led to this monster that we all know about. Therefore, three years are not so much ahead of the decades before. As regards the actual control to be carried out, the Independent Office will be controlled by the Management Board of the IPO. It will be controlled by the Ministry of Culture. It has all the conditions of Law 4481/2017 for a general meeting of beneficiaries and a supervisory board to be controlled. It is subject to all the rules of transparency laid down by the law. The interim administrator shall also submit a half-yearly report on the activities of the IPO and the Ministry of Culture. Therefore, contrary to what has been happening for many years, this provision ensures transparency, merit and gives sufficient time for the creators themselves to take their luck and build a new SGP that will now manage their rights openly and democratically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u336	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Dousina, you have the floor for seven minutes. Immediately thereafter, the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman Mr Vakis follows.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u337	Every Member who speaks, will a parliamentarian also speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u338	Two Members have spoken and the third will now speak. Then the President of Parliament will take the floor, Mr. Butsi. Mr. Dousina, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u339	Although it is a surplus, I, too, as a professor of law and a member of the SYRIZA, will repeat that the exchange of two with the eight applicants for political asylum in Greece is a bad case of take news. Mr. Kontonis said so, Mr. Janakopoulos said so. Their repetition on the one hand shows bad faith. On the other hand, however, it takes time and takes away from the importance, of the emphasis that this bill must have, one of the most important things that this House has been through and goes through. I'll speak a little historically. In April 1872 a lady named "Serious English" published a letter, addressed to the British MPs, to the "TIMES" in London entitled "They are women's animals". So he wrote: “While women are equal to men have been discussed endlessly, without answer. Whether they have a soul remains a deeply questionable issue. But would it be too much to ask you to do it to the Members of Parliament - 'Recognize that at least women are animals? That women are not legal subjects. But there is no MEP to introduce a bill saying "anywhere the word "animal" will be considered to include women in law. This will also ban the ruthless cruelty to dogs, cats and women." Brittany's anger was the result of court decisions last week, when a man who beat someone else was sentenced to seven years of criminal slavery and a husband who murdered his wife was sentenced to three months of forced labour. The company against the cruelty to animals was founded in 1824 and had promoted many laws of protection. But women were considered the property of their fathers throughout the 19th century, who had the right to torture them and their spouses, who could be raped unpunished until 1995 in Britain and in 2006 in Greece. By 1929 the British courts had repeatedly stated that when civil rights laws include the word 'person', subject to law, it does not include women. Only men are persons, can be elected and elected. But let's come to today. Last Friday we heard about the twenty-nine-year-old Cypriot, Helena Franzi, who killed himself. It was a shocking story. Her stepfather, a priest in a village in the province of Nicosia, sexually abused her from a child. Her stepmother knew and hit her. At ten, Elena reported the incident. But no one believed her, and the file is gone. The torture went on, and when in the 20th time she decided to testify against her father, the stepfather, the court sentenced the priest to just two years imprisonment, in particular, eighteen months, while her stepmother was not persecuted. The priest came back to his parish, Helena killed herself. The rape trauma syndrome, the trauma syndrome from rape, a mental illness that follows almost all victims of sexual violence, is more intense in women who suffered in the hands of relatives and friends. "The destruction of trust destroys the world, our position within the world", as Jean America said, in relation to what was suffered in the Holocaust. We have not made much progress since the 19th century on the issues of violence, sexual violence and symbolic violence against women. The British Act on Transmissible Diseases in 1860 allowed the arrest, compulsory examination of abstract illnesses and imprisonment - if they were positive - of sexually active women. In 2012 we had the repetition of this law in Greece. Women who looked foreign and considered sex workers arrested, were subjected to mandatory HIV examination, and their photos were circulated everywhere. When it was found that they were not foreign, their imprisonment was terminated, but three killed themselves. The campaign was trying to protect the health of Greek men by targeting, humiliating and punishing the racial and classic inferior women who destroyed Greek genetic material! As Joanna Bourke writes in her classic book "The story of rape from 1860 to the present day", the 19th-century legislation treated women as "infected animals", as "resolved bitches". Greece also added the race to the humiliation of sex and order. So violence against women is not over with the recent and limited legislative improvements, including the present one. The law alone fails to eliminate race and sexual violence. We have data from all the major Western countries. In the United States only 12% of rape victims report crime to the authorities. In Greece this figure is 10%. Less than 5% of the rapes reported in Britain lead to the perpetrator's conviction, while only 7% in Greece, with 2002 figures. The perpetrators condemned either in Britain or in Greece must consider themselves extremely unfortunate. In Greece research has found that four and a half thousand rapes are carried out each year without including the thousands of rapes in the family. On 28 January this year, police said thirteen thousand seven hundred cases of domestic violence were recorded between 2013 and 2017. Only in 2017 were there three thousand and thirty-four cases of domestic violence. But why do I insist on these creepy elements? Why isn't rape denounced? Why are the perpetrators not punished? There is everywhere, both in America and Britain and here a system of direct and indirect protection for criminals and indifference for victims. The reasons are many. Victims fear not to lose their reputation as honest women, since shame usually falls to the abused and not to the evildoer. They fear the revenge of the criminal and his circle, even more if the perpetrator is a husband, a father or a relative. Police and judicial officers have not been trained to interpret and understand the physical and mental trauma to which I referred, the wound of the victims. The courts, in rare cases, put the victim’s personal history into the microscope, return it to the traumatic event in a tortured manner. Victims are objective. The woman becomes just a body, exclusively, and is tortured to justify her clothes, her hair, her behavior, as if there were anything to a woman who could justify violence and rape. Many times crime is repeated in the courts and we know that from both British and American literature. This long-term and lasting story shows that violence and rape of women and men, but the majority of them are women, are a method of organising social power, reproducing patriarchy, sexism, class and racist domination. Tolerance of sexual violence in the family is still based on the concept, indirectly now, that the body of the woman is owned and its purpose is to serve the sexual needs of the man. Today's bill is progress. It's not enough. Rape is a crisis, a deformity of maleity, of man. His disappearance is our responsibility, of men, of degraded maleity in modern societies. We need to change the legal system as a whole, to train its officials, to increase the detection and punishment of offenders. But, after all, the elimination of sexual aggression is our work of men, and barbarity should not be the same of men's sex. I believe that the House, possibly its foundation, must launch a major public information campaign. We must stop violence against women, trafficking in vulnerable women for sexual exploitation. If this modern slavery is not limited, neither of us, a woman or a man, will be free. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u340	Thank you, Mr. Doussina. Mrs Bakis, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, has the floor. Immediately after that, Mr Georgantas will take the floor and the President of Parliament will follow Mr Voutsis. Here, my colleague, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u341	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not intend to blame such an important bill, as well as the amendments and the monstrations that have been heard by the Opposition. 'Repeat mother of all learning'. Deal. We have heard a number of things, not the number, about the statement made by the Member of the Chamber of Deputies. I will not talk about the statement by the Member of Parliament, with whom I obviously disagree, but the position of the government is well known. We are the rule of law, we have democracy, there is a distinction of power and our foreign policy and our international relations are not based on any logic of power, nor on oriental bazaars and set-offs. It's over and out. I now come to the amendment from the Ministry of Culture. Let us also ask ourselves in this Chamber which government brought the copyright bill in July 2017 in the summer of 2017. What government has shown a large 'part' that has been done for many years? And who ensure that they receive - and that there is also one justice in this - the authors of their rights? I think that is clear. They've been documented. We've spent many hours in this Chamber. I would like, therefore, because I think it is very important today to speak exclusively about the Istanbul Convention. Ladies and gentlemen, on 25 November, the anniversary of the murder of the Mirabal brothers - those who were called - who did not hesitate to put them with the bloodshed regime of the dictator Troy in Saint Dominic and were tortured to death has been established as the world day for the eradication of violence against women. The orange days, that is, between 25 November and 10 December, which we honour World Human Rights Day, are becoming a reminiscent of the day-to-day violation of constitutional fundamental rights of freedom and equality. They shatter silences and fears, give voice to the buffalo faces and denounce a lasting crime without punishment. Lithography and executions, barbaric mutilations of women's organs in the name, truth, what religion, what unwritten laws of the community and cultural peculiarities? Independent family violence is hermetically closed to the four walls of the house, which deprives the unconscious of the victim's shame. Sexual abuse, female labour exploitation, sexual slavery. In a civilized and enlightened Europe one out of three women has suffered physical and sexual violence since the age of 15. One out of twenty women has been raped. Over 55% of women have been sexually harassed. The female body becomes the field of deep dominance relationships, violation of rules, collapse of the dignity of the human face. He ceases to be entitled to rights and is immovable to the biological event of existence. It is only dominated as a commodity with a spare value or property of those who exploit it under exclusive rights of use. By once turning capitalism away from the territory of freedom, equality and Bentham, Marx wanted to show that the great rights of man and citizen become the ones that cover the bad face of the exploitation, a farm based on the sale of labour power as a commodity. We are free to sell our work, but forced at the expense of the undeniable need for survival. In post-neoliberal and neoliberal man-made capitalism even the birth of freedom of exchange of human labour disappears. And the retreat to human slavery, to man as someone else's exclusive property, is putting on the form of traficking, this highly profitable operation of postmenstrual slavery that has been taking pandemic dimensions since the 1990s. Ladies and gentlemen, today's plenary is important and honors the Greek Parliament. Today we are called upon to ratify the Istanbul Convention, which our country has signed since 2011. We are called on to ratify a convention aimed at combating and eradicating the exercise of racial violence of any kind, by preventing, monitoring, protecting victims and prosecuting offenders, but also by guaranteeing the right to international protection. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] Victims of racial violence may seek protection in another state when their own does not provide it. We are called upon to ratify a convention today whose incorporation into our legislation brings in areas of anachronisticity in our Code of Conduct. Let me stress a few very important points: the anachronistic and international human rights protection instruments condemned by the Criminal Code, which provides for the cessation of criminal prosecution or abstention, are abolished if, among the perpetrators of child labour under 15 and the victim has been married. Human trafficking includes forced marriage. Stallking is being criminalised, this form of psychological violence that systematic surveillance and violation of the victim's private sphere. However, the incitement to female genital mutilation is also criminalised. One hundred and fifty million women in African, Asian and European countries are subject to the barbaric practice of genital mutilation every year. Six girls per minute are amputated to control and incriminate women's nature and female sexual desire. Although institutional and legislative interventions have taken place, the law becomes a blank letter and the legal consequences come only to the painful cases of complications and injuries. I therefore consequent on this convention, respect and tolerance to the other, otherwise, not translated into our own idiom stops where human rights per se are violated: freedom and equality, dignity and self-determination. Invoking multiculturalism, cultural relativism cannot sometimes become a legal alibi of barbaric practices which result in fundamental rights. Unwritten laws, the custom of the community, the yoke of tradition enslaved and intimidated the feminine sex by considering it inferior and unworthy of man’s quality. Ladies and gentlemen, the ratification of the Istanbul Convention by the Greek Parliament is a day of honour for democracy, because our democracy is also a genus of feminine, most recently malicious within its home by its negligents. From its negligents who take advantage of the step and the rights it gave them to go through with it. And democracy goes through sex too. This day, however, is a very little debt to some women who refused to silence, for Worris Deri, a model written by the "Loude of the Desert", a book in which he testifies to the excitement he suffered, for Somale Ayan Hirsi Ali who was abducted, raped, tortured, escaped and became a member, but the Dutch Parliament played a leading role in the lifting of violence against women, for Vitrioli in the face of an immigrant worker, Kuneva, because the exploitation of a female genus does not want faces. It is a debt, however, to those who have covered their name, fear and silence. The Syrian refugees who were victims of trafficking and those who we met through the mythology, the theatre and the cinema, Irina and thousands of Irina from the former Soviet Union from 'Do you like Brams'? Maros Dukes, who falls victim to trafficking in the early 1990s and is reminiscent of lost homelands and unfulfilled dreams with her last words by Chekhov: "Someday we will come a day when we will find out why all this has happened, what is the cause for so much pain." The current convention, however, which we are called upon to ratify, is another small step in the long course of establishing rights that shield democracy. This government, ladies and gentlemen, gave citizenship to the children of migrants, legislated the cohabitation pact and the right to gender identity, welcoming refugees and creating places of integration in our schools, made the legal abortion called Sharia optional. At a time of intolerance, incapacitation of democracy, at a time when public discourse is feeding on hatred, in a society that, unfortunately, forgives sins in public incitements of violence to those who dress up the ammunition and should preach the preaching of the love of the Gospel, in a society where bells were mourning every time we legislate rights, with the ghost of national wisdom and racism being misled at times, unfortunately, over the temple of the Republic, in a society that is declared guilty of an inexorably religious and enlightened education, in a society where the descendants of Naziism are stoned in the home that Amir and every Amir and forbid those who do not run Greek blood in their veins, to keep the flag still have a long way to go. Surely rights aren't the passport to the socialist paradise. But they educate citizens and form consciences that do not have delusions not for a society without inequality, as the Chief of Civilian Opposition once said, but for exactly the opposite. However, it is not the democratic or left alibi of the systemic violence that poverty and exploitation practice. The rights we are establishing are prerequisites and the births of a society of equality and social justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u342	Thank you. Here, then, that women can teach men to keep time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u343	Essential women.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u344	Sometimes. Mr. Georgiod, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u345	Thank you, Mr President. I have a little more deplorable speech as, of course, I am obliged to comment on three amendments, two ministerial and one parliamentary position. The first amendment, which I consider to be of particular interest and which comes to substantially degrade a law of the present government, which was indeed an emblematic nature of allegedly reforming public administration, is the amendment that refers to the conditions for the mobility of civil servants. Law 4440/2016 laid down specific conditions, which we succeeded at the time, in relation to the transparency and appropriateness to be served when staff secondments or transfers are made from duty to duty. There, according to the explanatory statement, there were two offenders - I am using the word 'unregulated' because it is precisely the word in the explanatory statement - conditions which, if they were not, if they were not paid, could not go ahead with the assessment of the official's request which he wanted to leave a body. This was, therefore, the first essential requirement, as the explanatory statement says, the existence of up-to-date agencies and even in digital format, which are incorporated into the new digital establishment plan of the public administration which is first created and allows the structure and staffing of all operators to be captured. This digital organisational chart was therefore dictated by the fact that the up-to-date bodies of the entities will include all the posts per industry and an organic unit needed to meet their needs. Therefore, the need to second officials beyond the coverage of the organic positions should be specifically justified in the context of urgent needs. In a simpler way, the organogram had to provide for a position that was vacant and in order to cover this vacant organic position, applications had to be made. So today's amendment comes up with this unspeakable first principle, because there is a second one I will mention, and it cancels it. This outrageous principle, what was the torso, which was the skeleton of Law 4440/2016, reflecting the positions of the public, making the organograms, knowing where there are gaps, making the contours of positions - the second unspeakable condition that is not the amendment - but unfortunately, we know very well that there are no contours. I'm going to stay on this first unregulated condition, see where there are gaps to be covered, so that there are no shadows in any movement. So it says this amendment: 'There is no need to supplement the requirement of the previous issue of organisations'. Why? ‘With the reasoned report of the institution concerned which has not made the organisation approved by the Minister responsible, it shall be confirmed that the service needs for its operation are covered by the existing organic provisions.’ But the whole logic was to become up-to-date organograms and even digital ones, to have a real imprint at every moment of the staff members and empty organic posts, to justify any secondment. This, ladies and gentlemen, today, if you vote in favour of it, will cancel all of you, who from this Step to Law 4440/2016, and you have argued that all secondments and transfers of personnel are done in full transparency and will now be entitled to accuse everyone of leaving a very large window in this way so that party, service or anything else can be served again. This particular amendment, which actually annulls an entire bill, ladies and gentlemen, must be seen carefully because it really comes and cancels you. The second amendment, which I have to comment on, is a parliamentary amendment. I was very surprised that eight Members are coming and signing today, but so far by the eight Members, no one has supported it. There is, of course, one speaker left to support it perhaps in the future and it will also be of interest to the Minister to tell us whether it will be accepted. The amendment relates to the exclusion from the mobility system of officials seconded to parties, to parliamentary offices and, as I see, to those who are both MEPs and to the Commissioner of Greece. When I read it, I really cannot understand its feasibility, because the previous legislative framework seems to me to cover at least part of it, outside the MEPs and the Commissioner, the need for regulation that has been at the time. I would really like to hear from a left-wing speaker from the eight signatories of this very specific provision what was the stimulus for tabling this amendment, what feasibility it serves and what necessity, to see whether we should vote in favour of it or not. I think, however, that signing eight Members of Parliament an amendment with such a serious issue of service fundamental changes, without any justification, even elementary here, would be a shame for all of us. I'm expecting one of the eight to support it. So far this has not happened. And one final comment on the amendment on ‘ZEEZ’. I am thinking about it. The New Democracy has taken a positive stand on this amendment and will vote in favour of it. But I have two questions which, I think, I shall present to you in person. One thing has to do with paragraph (e) of Article 2, where it is foreseen that if there is a complete migration, it will be possible to transpose all the obligations into this new programme. I object or rather have a question whether this is compatible with European legislation and the existing legislative framework and whether it can happen. I do not know if this possibility has been investigated and this paragraph is placed here. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A second point I have to make - and I am ending - is that while a 20% discount is right in Article 1, paragraph 2, the discount is 15% and 5% then, that is, it is not exactly 20%. 15% and 5% gradually are less than 20%, if it is done, after we make the first discount and go to the second one. I don't know why that's been captured. It leads to a discount of less than 20% and, please, the editor sees it. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u346	Thank you, too. The President of Parliament, Mr Nikolaos Voutsis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u347	Good evening! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate not only on the work done by the two ministries, in this respect the Ministry of Justice, of course, but also on the work done at the Ministry of the Interior and the General Secretariat of Gender Equality, on how they presented and brought together all this new legislative framework which, as has been said, is linked, with a framework of legislation on rights. At the same time, I would like to congratulate all women individually, but also their collectives, their institutions that have been persistently, many times in the shadows, in silence, marginalising, raised these issues and scientific and racing and social issues in Greece and everywhere and shaped the framework and correlation so that some things at least are considered self-evident for their formal establishment. Because this is what this is all about today. It is also very important to see that in this framework of the rights legislation comes and the next bill on the effective equality and institutional safeguarding of the networks of structures, which is a very specific intervention in this time, at the time when the post-crisis period is due and in which the debate is being held is about which country, which society, which people we will be, how we will get out of the crisis and how we will be next. I have had the opportunity to say that the conditions are now forming, the conditions are being met, so that through a society that has suffered this long-standing crisis there is no society that is frightened, conservative, folded, fearful, violent, powerful paternalistic and, ultimately, hypocritical about these issues. It is not, therefore, a question of the road map going well for the country's typical exit in the summer of the memorial commitments and strong surveillance. The main aim of the future of the country is precisely such legislation and such debates to listen to and heal problems and pathogens that existed, whether in any case or in a pre-crisis, but which, in the context of the crisis, precisely because our society has compressed, feared, broken, split, pressed, then it is evident that it can then come out with symptoms that are deeply conservative. Let me tell you that I too would like, as my colleague and Professor Dousina did earlier, with our debate today, which is not generally a debate on gender equality, on women's movement, but has a specific reference to violence against women, domestic violence against all family members and the specific issues raised in the law, I would like to see our reports reviewed and honoured the memory of Greek Cypriot Helena Franzis. The whole Cypriot society was shocked. How many times has the Greek society been shocked by such incidents? How much did the Greek society improve after that? Keep a thought. They have been made by small, few or serious steps in a number of areas in what we once called "equality issues for women, men", the primary and primary demands - say - of the women's movement, which related to access to science, profession, equal pay, etc. There have been such steps. Why does he worry about us? Not all these years have there been any steps, all these decades in the crucial issue of today's bill, namely violence against women, domestic violence, and even beyond our country in many countries, which are internationally thought to be advanced and have not gone through the crisis, how much more so are issues that lead to retraining? For example, all the appearance of ISIS and fundamentalist movements on that side, very close to us, that is, in the Middle East, also worked preventively - and keep this - to return to tens of hundreds of thousands of women or to some who did not have that tendency in secular or semi-social regimes in the region, precisely for preventive reasons, in order not to mention that they are not wearing it. We were in Jordan on a mission two weeks ago. They had nothing to do with what we saw in the streets of the decades or fifteen years ago in Jordan itself. Precautionary. The ISIS has now been defeated, it doesn't matter. These underground routes, which have inside ideology, stereotypes, form situations that for years then operate aspiringly and manipulate women's behavior. We should therefore have this concern, together with the reflection, which specifically on this issue in a way deafening has been certified that the problems of violence and, in particular, domestic violence are cross-cutting problems internationally for all social classes, with different possibilities from there and beyond, depending on the class of origin, the class position of each woman, with different possibilities, or with more alternatives to emerge from this context - it is obvious according to the class and position of women in our class-formed society - but the problem and its most violent form have been recorded internationally - and all statistics have been heard - transversely throughout the community, in all societies, considered to be extremely progressive or rich, up to what I referred to earlier - in the Middle East and elsewhere - which are still in frugal and fundamental religious beliefs. So we need to see more generally that in our society too many times, ladies and gentlemen, they are presented as an alibi or a pretext for violent behavior towards women, wives, classmates, friends, sisters of various stereotypes that are dressed as traditions, of the type 'what to do, they happen, they exist' as religious prejudices. Thus, a legal process is being formed that leads to a straight-line social hypocrisy. Once, in my years, decades ago, we were talking about Costalexi and what had occurred. How many years have it been? How many issues have come to the surface? What disgusting hypocrisy is there? I believe that the Greek Parliament with today's debate and the piece of legislation which seems to be a large majority - possibly by unanimity - will go through and create a framework. It doesn't solve anything, it doesn't save anything. It raises the issue rightly at the table and gives many possibilities to anyone who realizes a situation that can move and can invoke it - and that is very important. So against silence, against the unambiguous law of silence, the Greek Parliament must take this cry, this voice to legislate. That's what's happening today. That's the counterfactual. I think it is particularly encouraging that there is also a very good programming in the Gender Equality Secretariat, which, by law, will have a coordinating role along with the establishment of the GREVIO general mechanism. There's a programming that runs. It's sixty-one structures. Forty-one, if I'm not mistaken, it's for security and twenty for hospitality. There's the SOS line. Only six thousand cases found the courage to come out of silence in 2016 and address the SOS line. And there is at the same time a hosting programme with special provisions and special structures for the protection of victims in the cases of immigration, asylum, residence permits, refugees, migrants and the structures in which such a grid of violence is reformed. That's important. These mechanisms, these structures should be strengthened. It is within the National Action Plan for 2016-2020, as well as the resources from the NRP 2014-2020 that will help to ensure that these structures exist and are able to deliver. We are concerned about how other major trades worldwide - we all know, drugs, weapons and others - up to small nuclear heads after the fall of the wall formed trades, smuggling worldwide, etc. - there are special services, there are special stricter legislation and special interventions and transnational synergies, so that there can be the disclosure of these circuits and their collapsing, while what has been heard before by the speaker - I think Vaki - on the issue of traffickers, not migrants and refugees or traffickers of smuggling cigarettes or arms or drugs, etc., there are no such effective agencies and there is no strong will and criminal law that can, in this matter, put an end to it? Why is that? Does it have to do with the core of society's development in this globalised phase and with inhibitors, reactions, obstacles to the development of a decisive policy for criminalisation and the dislocation of such actions? Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that an important step is taking place today. It's done from all sides. It's done with consensus. It's tolerant. The point is that what will be written and signed tomorrow by us as law, as well as by you, Minister and Mr. Giannakakis, after further and beyond the control mechanisms and beyond the coordination mechanisms, will go through the cultural tradition of this country, in what is referred to as cold words, media, schools, education, everyday life. How will a banning shield be raised beyond institutional support in relation to the issues of violence, domestic violence or violence against women, a social shield to prevent, prevent, collapse with these unacceptable phenomena which should already be in the twenty-first century not even mentioned in our pits or in the history of the peoples? I very much hope that this Step is taking place today and is becoming decisive. It can be done by all of us, and I congratulate you again on the effort that has been made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u348	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, seventeen students and students and sixteen educational attendants from the Thessaloniki Special Gymnasium. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Please, Mrs. Big Housekeeper, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u349	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by stressing that I feel proud today as a woman, as a Greek and as a member of the Greek Parliament. I'll explain why. Because after so many years of silence and essentially tolerant of the phenomenon of domestic violence, which were not fully covered by the current legislative framework, we are finally coming today to ratify the Istanbul Convention after seven years and to act to protect women and all the members of a family who are victims of all kinds of violence, physical, verbal, psychological and economic. The previous governments had completely neglected the problem and left the victims to a large extent uncovered. It is the current government that made it self-evident to bring the Convention to a vote for the protection of women, women who I consider to be the heart of the Greek family, even of the Greek economy, and much more of the Greek society, a society that, since 2010 - eight years - has been experiencing difficult times, hard times because of the inexperienced sins and scandals of the past. I would like to refer to the rapporteur in New Democracy, who said they had also taken measures to try.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u350	Law 3500. Have a good look.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u351	Yes, but seven years you haven't ratified the contract. Let me tell you why you didn't ratify the contract? Mrs. Antoniou, don't be like this. Because you had other priorities. You were looking at how to get the loans from the banks. I am now going to speak and you will listen very carefully. That's what you did. I have twenty-six conventions here - do you hear me, Mrs. Antoniou? - with the Agricultural Bank, which you have finally managed to destroy. Twenty-six conventions! What did you do? You were able to accept the state grant and put it as a guarantee.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u352	Were women in the Agricultural Bank?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u353	I don't know. Maybe she was a manager of the woman. Let's go down. Don't be in a hurry. And here at the Agricultural Bank says that the debtor, - you - the transferor, promises that the pledged claim is free of any pledge, assignment, settling, demand of a third party or confiscation, and that if you make another loan...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u354	Are those the bill we're talking about now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u355	I don't care. You've spoken too many times and no matter what. I'm going to the bill. You don't like them. I'll take you now. Don't worry at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u356	Trust me. I can't hear.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u357	Sure. I submit twenty-six contracts for the Agricultural Bank. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Theodora Megalonikou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Then you had the courage to get four more loan contracts from the National Bank and to deceive - you are amazing in the lesson of deception - the National Bank, to deceive Piraeus Bank in 2011, to deceive Eurobank and Attica and to put the same grant back as a pledge. So you have come to owe 210 million, of whom - please take them too - are the other contracts - only the 5 million Kelles, at this time. Have you arranged for your loans to be repaid for four hundred years? [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Theodora Megalonikou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You loaded all this to the Greek people, four banks were recapitalised with 42 billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u358	Did we do it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u359	Because of you the recapitalisations have been made. Of course! This is what the Greek people pay for. That's why family violence has increased. Because in their home because of your omissions and PASOK...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u360	The last three years, what's going on? You know?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u361	I don't have a dialogue with you. I speak and you're obliged to listen to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u362	Mrs. Antoniou, don't interrupt!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u363	Mr President, it is personally addressed to me and to my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u364	I can see two. I wish the rest of you were here! I see in the background there's a third one. You took from various banks, you pledged the grant by 2020, and I ask now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u365	Mr President, we're probably not talking about the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u366	Do you want to come here to the Chair?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u367	The amendment talks about.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u368	I am talking about the amendment, but they do not like it, Minister. I'm going on, Mr. President. Hold on to your time. I ask you, ma'am, that you are rapporteur: How did the banks accept to disburse the same State grant to New Democracy while loans had been granted with the same subsidy? Did there have any other guarantees to cover? I want you to bring me the evidence here to see if you were only putting the grant or there are others back who were guaranteed with foreign notes, notes, deposits, etc. New Democracy has come to owe 210 million, as I have said, and only serve 5 million. The other 205 million are not served, and I don't know when they will be served. PASOK has come to owe 190 million and serves only 8.5 million. In fact, you and PASOK guaranteed the grant of the Greek State. Listen to me! However, the PASOK is prepared to change its legal form so the Potami has now gone and from the "Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement" it is heading as a "Switch Movement Movement". Of course! So he'll have a new VAT and his debts won't appear anywhere. And I guess New Democracy's on its way to this tactic. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me a minute, Mr President. So all this is big scandals paid by the Greek people, and even you, in the coup d'état of New Democracy - PASOK, offered bank officials a service, so that they wouldn't open their mouths and speak, you made a law in 2013 and you baptized them at the moment completely irresponsible. They didn't know what they were doing and what they were doing!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u369	Did you remove him from the law?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u370	In 2013, you were a coup d'état.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u371	Now you've done away with him?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u372	I'm not having a dialogue, Mrs. Anthony. You're listening. You have to listen to me. I don't have a dialogue with you, no matter how much you're causing me. If you want, we can have a dialogue outside, have a cup of coffee. After all this, I think the amendments that you say have come are fleas in hay! Look at you covering your back first, because if you were right MPs, you had to put your fortune on bail to get the parties loans, as do companies.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u373	I don't. What should I put on?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u374	Mrs. Antonio, please. We're not at Castoria's cafeteria!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u375	Will you let me talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u376	Cafeteria has done so itself, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u377	Mrs. Antonio, do you want to go to the "Megaly BRITAIN" and have coffee to look for them in public?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u378	Mr President, what he is saying is to withdraw at this time!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u379	Mrs. Antonio, you didn't take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u380	All right, let's go to the House's cafe.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u381	You don't have the floor. Do you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u382	I want the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u383	What's the staff? That I called you for coffee?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u384	To withdraw this phrase immediately, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u385	Mrs. Antoniou, first day you come to the House?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u386	What did I say? Did I threaten to tell you to go for coffee?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u387	Yeah, you can sing it to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u388	If I have listened well, it has brought Minister - for a moment I was in committee upstairs - to abolish the subsidy for the extra-parliamentary rent.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u389	Finish, Ms. Big housekeeper.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u390	Give me one more minute, I'll be done, Mr. President. For EUR 23,000 two Ministers had the emoluments to resign. You do not have the ethics for millions, but you do not say an apology to the Greek people! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u391	To be serious - if you want - and a little, I propose - and I think I am expressing the feeling of all the wings of this House - that today's debate be devoted to the wrongful Helena Franzis, who left on her own, helpless, in an enormous loneliness. Mr. Kelles, although you spoke before your position, would you like to go up to Stepma now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u392	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u393	Will you forbid us and speak, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u394	Because I've seen you talk before, that's what I'm saying. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u395	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law has a positive impact on the national legal order and enriches it in terms of the prevention of violence against women and domestic violence, as well as in relation to the implementation of the Council Framework Decision of the European Union on the application of the principle of mutual recognition of financial penalties. Instead of discussing the bill again, however, we are talking, as usual, Minister, about the amendments. It has paraded half the Ministerial Council - if not more - for amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u396	Less than half.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u397	Less than half. You may be right, but the Ministerial Council is too big. So it's all four. They are unnecessarily, untimely, out of evil. Some, instead of being discussed in detail, are trying to move them quickly, secretly and without debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u398	Be careful not to vote on them!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u399	I said some! Watch me, I'm a doctor, you're a legal officer. I said some! No conversation, let's go through them. Is that finally gonna change? Mercy! And I come to the bill. This is an international convention, which becomes an integral part of Greek domestic law, which takes precedence over any other provision of law. The question of the convention is extremely important, since it reflects our values and represents our culture. Women are the womb of humankind and must be protected in every way and by every means around the planet. Unfortunately, our values, which are considered undeniable in the countries of the West and the Western world, are absent from many parts of the world, where we see women's rights being violated brutally and on a daily basis, even in a time of peace. For our culture, the protection and consolidation of human rights as a whole throughout the world and the guarantee of equality and protection of human dignity are the greatest challenge for the twenty-first century, beyond party positions, from political identities and geographical borders. This Convention of the Council of Europe, as concluded in Istanbul by the relevant ministers in 2011, is a fundamental legal basis for the European area, showing that we, the states of the European Union, and our regional partners are aware of a better future and a fairer and more human society. Each article and provision of the Convention contains the legal pretext for the development of appropriate public policies that will form a safety net for women in modern society. And it is of particular value that it is incorporated into our country today, at a time when we welcome hundreds of thousands of immigrants and refugees from regions around the world, where women's rights are being systematically and consciously denounced. We are well aware that the position of women in other societies is justified in fear of persecution, which is why it is part of the particular social groups that fall under the asylum regime, in accordance with the Geneva Convention on the status of refugees. At the same time, this Convention contributes to combating domestic violence, which should fall into all its forms, whether physical or psychological. The family is the core of each individual's socialisation, where the main recruits are collected. That is why there must be a solid legal basis not only for Greek society, but for every society that wants to be in the world of our culture and values. However, Minister, we must not just stand by the ratification of the Convention. In particular, we must stand up to implementing and consolidating it with appropriate policies. Both Greek and European justice have legal means of intervention and legislative tools for development, but the appropriate mix of political support is needed. I mean, with the present ratification, you should also have a specific framework of action. Do you have a specific programme of implementation of the provisions of the contract? How will it develop across the territory? Which bodies, public and private, will be involved in its implementation? For all of this, you could have made specific provisions to accompany the ratification of the Convention in its implementing dimension, instead of discussing amendments concerning the Code of Nationality and the transfer of civil servants. The same applies to the incorporation of the decision of the European Union Justice and Home Affairs Council. Undoubtedly, the framework decision is to be incorporated into the national legal system. But why do you now choose to bring it together with other provisions of the Ministry of Justice concerning criminal justice, in whose work you are trying to intervene? For example, will the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay ask for the appeal of any exoneration? What's he saying? Has this not been solved by the Ice Bay case law? So we're repeating again?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u400	Let me make it clear, Mr President. Mr President, I have also told the committee that this is the case-law of the Ice Bay. In order to make a complete correlation with the letter of the law, this provision had to be paid in the way we are bringing the regulation today. Because, as it was formulated, if it were to be interpreted closely, then neither the prosecutor of the Ice Bay would have the right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u401	So you legislate the case law of the Ice Bay.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u402	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u403	Because it is precisely because it is a case-law thing, so I am saying why you are now bringing it. That was my question. You also bring a number of other issues, such as amendments to the last multi-brand plan and modification of the organic positions of judges, regulations on the Court of Auditors, on the remuneration of notaries, on consensus divorces. All of these are issues that we could, of course, discuss in another bill. This concept of legislation and pluralism is also exacerbating evil and it seems clear that in most of the bills you are trying to legislate with party purposes. I shall refer only to two points, Mr President. In Article 31, attempting to amend the Code of Nationality. Minister, with the code of citizenship, we're not playing. The acquisition of Greek citizenship for us in the New Democracy is a very serious matter and we cannot discuss it as an amendment to a bill. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Under Article 33 of the bill, you remove the condition that there is an organisation for the participation of operators in the single mobility system and that only the reasoned report of the institution concerned, with the approval of the relevant Minister, is sufficient for the mobility of employees. So, what are you doing? You encourage bodies not to train and adjust agencies, so that we do not have an organisational chart when this is essential for their operation and, above all, for the provision and distribution of expenditure. We are in favour of mobility. What mobility, though? Organised mobility, with a plan, not without organograms that do not substantiate the existence of each position. I think that not only is the process of mobility accelerating, as you are saying in the explanatory statement, but you are also creating a legal base for overall malfunctioning of public services. I think that these are wicked and photographic provisions to serve 'days'. Of course, you will be judged in the next elections by the Greek people. We in the main body of the bill are positive, Minister. The other amendments will put our rapporteur on the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u404	So do we. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, thirty-one students and students and four educational attendants from the 28th grade school of Thessaloniki. Welcome to the House! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Morfidis from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u405	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, the last few days in the debate on the bill in the committee, an effort has been made and I think we have managed to deal in depth, essentially and seriously with the bill that we are discussing today. I stress this because despite any objections, despite differences and possible different approaches, Members and MPs of all the parties to the democratic arc have understood that the legislative work of this House on rightful policy can and must leave a footprint visible to the next generations. This bill - and I am consciously approaching it as a legislative unit - is extremely important for three reasons. Firstly, because it improves the existing legal framework. Secondly, because it is in line with Community developments. And thirdly, because it is linked to the laws passed by this House. I am becoming more specific in terms of improving the existing legal framework. About two years ago, Europe's Women's Network conducted a survey of whether and whether women are ultimately protected with Law 3500/2006. I would like Mrs Antoniou to hear that because she strongly defended him. Not that the law was bad, but within the twelve years that have passed since I think that a revision is needed and that has been accepted by everyone. The law, therefore, according to its explanatory statement, was intended to address the phenomenon of domestic violence. I will mention some of the failures of the law, which Europe's Women's Network has identified. Firstly, it does not include forms of violence, such as continuing verbal and emotional humiliation and isolation, while economic violence is not recognised as domestic violence. It is understood that especially the latter is a critical size within the economic crisis. Article 3 of this law defines as violence against women any violation of human rights and means all acts of gender violence and includes everything mentioned earlier. Secondly, the law so far provides for criminal mediation, but there is no guarantee at all that the victim will remain safe. This Legislation is supplemented by Article 11(2) of Law 3500/2006, which lays down the conditions for the initiation of the criminal mediation procedure. The necessary legal consequences shall therefore arise when the person to whom the offence of domestic violence is attributed does not comply with the obligations laid down, for example when the person concerned is not monitored by the therapist. Finally, the unacceptable paragraph 3 of Article 339 of the Criminal Code on the seduction of minors, according to which there was no criminal prosecution, should be a marriage between the person concerned and the person suffering. This bill, in addition, includes new perspectives that go hand in hand with developments. Initially, stalking, i.e. non-predictable monitoring or harassment, is recognised either by pursuing continuous contact via a telecommunications or electronic means or by continuous visits to the victim's environment. It is clear that in a daily internet contact environment such a provision is faced with many cases. It is also important to refer to the term'social gender' linked to the previous legislations of this House and I will refer to them below. It should also be seen as establishing the right of self-detained residence in the event of particularly difficult circumstances, giving, for example, incentives to migrants residing in our country to denounce behaviour of domestic violence without the fear of expulsion. Finally, the draft is linked and incorporates laws that were passed by this House. I should like to make an outline of the points which I consider to be the political aim of the current government with a torso of the Left as reflected in Greek legislation. Firstly, the provisions of the law are not only limited to structural violence against women but cover all the dominance relationships that are being developed at the expense of men, usually children and adolescents. It is therefore understandable that the House is legislating on the basis of social gender, making progress in the rationalisation and updating of the legal framework in relation to rights. Secondly, the term 'family' is extended, covering the symphonies of coexistence between people of the same or different sex. One understands how necessary it is to clarify the term'social gender', to make it widely understood that the umbrella covers everyone. Colleagues and colleagues, the limited time does not allow me to develop further elements of the bill that do not simply resolve issues that remain open to society, but set the conditions for another collective concept. A concept that deals not only with women but also with all people as equals, which gives weight to prevention and not punishment, which once and for all deletes antiquated logic that goes hand in hand with social reality. Finally, not as a bone-in instrument but as a vehicle of new ideas, new practices, new conditions which appall all the citizens who claim their rights and, above all, those who are unable to defend them, who are legally, legally and legally shielding all citizens' rights and among them one of the most important, dignity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u406	Thank you, too. The Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, Mr Katsikis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u407	Thank you, Mr President. I could only comment on my own before entering into the agenda today in plenary on the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, since I suddenly acquired another name or added to the existing one, that of the bomber. So I put 'bomb' because I made statements. And so, after the 'bomb', a journalistic lynching against my face was followed, because this 'bomb' was made up of statements. And I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, have I made statements? I have heard from Mr Panagiotopoulos, approved by the New Democracy law, to speak of statements. I would say to anyone who adopts this expression and the designation of statements in the reference of a personal thought, in a hypothetical dialogue through a theoretical debate, to open the dictionary to see what it means and see what the meaning of the word 'declaration' is. And because I took from the dictionary the very concept of the statement, let me read it to you. It is therefore an express expression of information either written or oral in information. What information do you and those who hear from us outside of Ethiopia that Katsiki gave to a tam of journalistic atrocities, a breakfast at "SKAI"? Unless someone believes what has been said, the other name by which I was baptized, i.e. the "lady". So if anyone thinks that the speech is a "crowd" to say it. So, what information did I convey, did I express? Was there any information about personal thought in a hypothetical dialogue? And what did I say? You know, cases start with 'if', 'if', 'if'. This has therefore been described as a statement. And I am sorry that the SKAI model, which did not play everything I said, affected both my colleagues and my own movement to which I belong and the great government partner. And since they accepted that I made statements, so I was irresponsible, I committed a mistake great and I damaged my country. And do you honestly believe, ladies and gentlemen, that I have damaged my country? I'm sure you didn't see the whole video. You saw me say: 'If the two governments,' 'If we could bypass the decision of Greek justice'. Is the decision of Greek justice bypassed? If I would be a god, then what would I do? I was going to stop wars. If, if, if. This 'if' is the case, then, a statement was made which - both SKAI and its modelling - was extended and reached to Turkey. Because if this hadn't happened - and among journalists, you know, horn-eye-eye-eye-do-do-do-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo. If, then, damage was done, think about who did it. Although I honestly don't believe that my minimality, who serves the country and loyally the oath he gave to the laws and the Constitution, could do harm. But does anyone think that by doing harm, could the Turk change any view it had, any provocation it provoked? So, a little bit, because I no longer went out to the press channels to be north of those who represent journalistic punks and I preferred to say what I had to say here in plenary. Of course, I would like to thank Mr Doussina for describing the truth with one word: make news. That, you know, in English translation means false news. It is a question of false news within Parliament. Minister of Justice, you responded by saying that the Government's representative spoke. I never thought he'd get there, but he did make his statements. You said my colleagues spoke too. You referred, in reply to my fellow Members, who have unfortunately condemned me. However, I did not hear you say that, to restore the truth, I also made a written statement in which I said how distorted and how abused truth and reality were. In any case, I would like to ask you one question, Mr Minister, which you mentioned earlier, when Mr Amyras' inappropriate and inappropriate conduct with punches on this seat, which I am sitting on it with a great deal of due respect, having the honour of addressing you the floor and looking at you in the eyes. He was bouncing and you were wondering why he asked you to answer again and repeat what you said at the outset. Listen, Mr. Kontonis, in 2016 from this step Mr. Amyras with abusive, vile behavior, when we looked at the bill on the cohabiting of gay couples, attacked me. And, you know, today Mr. Amyras is indicted for this excitement. How could he behave differently if not trying to create a matter of assistance and assistance from all the situation and those who shaped it? Of course, he did, and he did, because he believed that by characterizing me as he described me, he would get his ear out a little bit. Because, as I told you, he is subject to his hybridism, his irresponsible and dangerous behavior in this Parliament, against my face. I'm not going to go on with it. This is what I have to say with regard to the issue that made me a person of the day, a 'bombmaker' and a 'lady'. And as much time as I have left, Mr President, I shall come to the point on which this House is meeting today. Ladies and gentlemen, our Constitution clearly states that Greeks and Greeks have equal rights and obligations. The State ensures and must be established to alleviate the disparities that exist in practice, particularly to the detriment of women. In this context, it is also the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combat of Violence against Women and domestic violence. The eighty-five articles of the Istanbul Convention are a very significant distance towards the protection and respect of women's rights. They show that any form of violence against the unprotected and vulnerable people of our society, women and children, has no place in a modern democratic society that must respect and defend human rights. Domestic violence and violence against women in all its forms, verbal, physical, psychological, sexual, has emerged in Europe as a central issue of human rights violations, while statistics show that 33% of women, at pan-European level, have fallen victim to violence. As far as Greece is concerned, 25% of women have been raped at some point in their lives, and for example they are the reported cases of rape, which reach five thousand a year. Five thousand incidents, I underline. In our country, although we are now called upon to proceed with ratification of the Istanbul Convention, progress has been made, and we must stress that. Both the sixty-two universal coverage network to prevent and deal with all forms of violence against women already in force and running, and the fifteen Gender Equality Advisory Centres operating in the seats of the thirteen regions, and the twenty-five support centres for women victims of violence in equal municipalities, are concrete examples. With regard to the criticisms the Government has received regarding the delay in ratification of this convention, which was signed by forty two countries including Greece, in 2011 in Istanbul, there are amendments to the Criminal Code. They are amendments which the relevant Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights is currently proposing and suggesting, following the advance required. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] If you can show some tolerance, Mr. President. Otherwise, when the time runs out, let me sit down. It is a good idea that the customs, traditions and religious beliefs of the perpetrator against whom a criminal prosecution has been prosecuted for domestic violence, an amendment to Article 79(3) of the Criminal Code, should not be taken into account. It is also important to incorporate the contract into our national law in a way that now abolishes the provision of the Criminal Code which, in the event of a marriage with the minor victim of deceased has effectively relieved the perpetrators of the deceased of a child under 15, the Criminal Code, Article 339(3). In addition, prison sentences are laid down for anyone who causes or urges a woman to subject genital mutilation, as well as for anyone who is forcing a person to marry, as part of a human trafficking offence. It is also important that the proposal for a prison sentence for anyone persistently pursues and monitors a third person either by telecom and electronic means or by continuous visits to the environment. Furthermore, there is provision for a prison sentence for anyone not applying the restrictions imposed in cases of domestic violence, and the provisions of Article 18 of Law 2168/93 are amended and it is laid down that the permits provided for in the law are not granted to those who have been criminally prosecuted or have been sentenced for acts provided for in Law 3500/06 to counter domestic violence. This draft law makes changes to the existing legislation on the granting of asylum, a ban on returning a foreign victim of domestic violence, and a Code on Immigration of Social Inclusion, i.e. the validity of residence permits for citizens of third countries for victims of the reported crimes. It's N.4251/14. Now let me refer instantly...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u408	But, Mr Katsiki, time is up. Bad news, but it's real.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u409	Thank you, Mr President. I'm coming down from the Step. I'm sorry, but I've consumed enough time, because I had to defend myself against what I was accused of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u410	You hierarchized things. Mrs Vagonakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u411	Thank you, Mr President. There is a feeling that progressive and liberal Europe has a little - very much solved the problems of violence against women. However, despite the steps that have been taken, the recent investigation by the Agency for Fundamental Rights shows that the situation in the European Union is even worse today than what we thought: 62 million women of 15 years or more have fallen victim to physical, sexual violence in the European Union. There are other elements and the most characteristic is that every year 3,500 women die because of domestic violence. We therefore all understand that ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and domestic violence is not a symbolic one, but it is a prerequisite for ensuring respect for women's rights. It is also important that this convention comes into Parliament in conjunction with provisions amending national legislation, where necessary, in order to ensure the smooth implementation of this international text. At the same time, we must stress that Greece does not start from scratch, as other countries might do, but it already has an integrated network - it has already been said - sixty two globally-wide structures to prevent and deal with the forms of violence under the supervision of the General Secretariat for Gender Equality. There are also advisory centres, counselling centres for women victims of violence, as well as nineteen hostels for women, and in our town, in Chania there is such a guest house. But in order to understand the need for as complete a legislation as possible in this area, we must bear in mind that violence against women means all acts of violence, based on sex, which have or may have the effect of physical, sexual, psychological or economic harm to women, compulsion or deprivation of freedom of public or private life. So the convention we are debating today is important for many reasons. Firstly, because it recognises that violence against women is one of the most important social coercive mechanisms, while at the same time recognising that it can be exercised in any way in public, private life, and that women and girls are exposed to a higher risk of gender-based violence than men. Secondly, it is important because, for the first time, the different forms of racial violence are defined and defined in detail, which allows us to see and understand variations in the different cultural contexts, to deepen our knowledge of the dimensions of the phenomenon and, above all, allows us to design and implement policies, with a view to preventing and effectively dealing with phenomena. Thirdly, it is important because it puts the burden on education and on preventive and therapeutic programmes. Includes media, private sector and civil society, prefers to collect statistical data and carry out surveys on a regular basis, provides for civil actions, appeals, damages, criminal sanctions and legal aid. In particular, all victims are entitled to claim compensation from the perpetrators, while adequate State compensation is granted to those persons who have suffered serious physical injury or health damage, in so far as such damage is not covered by sources such as the perpetrator, the insurance cover or the state health and social benefits subsidised. Free legal assistance, interpretation and consular support shall also be provided to victims, if necessary. Fourthly, it is important because it includes provisions for immigrants and asylum seekers. It provides for a special monitoring mechanism at national and transnational level and for the cooperation of these institutions. Fifthly, it is important because it introduces the dimension of openness, namely the protection of the rights of victims without discrimination, on the basis of sex, race, colour, language, religion, political or other beliefs, national social origin, sexual orientation, age, family status and others. Sixthly, it is important because it ensures that government authorities, officials and other bodies take the necessary legislative and other measures to prevent them from investigating, punishing and providing corrections when such acts are committed. Seventhly, it is important because it defines one or more official bodies responsible for coordination, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of policies and measures to prevent and combat all forms of violence that are being discussed. Furthermore, it is important because it takes the necessary measures to promote changes, in terms of social and cultural stereotypes of behaviour for women and men, in order to eliminate prejudice, customs, traditions and all other practices based on the idea of women's inferiority or on the stereotypes of roles of women and men. In this respect, they also provide for regular public awareness-raising programmes in cooperation with national human rights institutions and equality bodies, while ensuring that they are included in the official curriculum and at all levels of education educational material on issues such as equality between men and women. Finally, it is important because it enables the competent authorities to order in immediate-risk situations the offspring of violence to be removed from the premises of the victim for a sufficient period of time, in particular if the risk of repetition of the violence is assessed as an existing person or the perpetrator has access to weapons. It is also possible to remove his parental rights. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I could list too many more advantages of ratification. However, because time does not allow me to do so, I would like to close with this: I note that the issue of gender equality cannot be confined to institutional initiatives, however serious and essential they may be. The abolition of discrimination and prejudices against women is primarily a matter of society and defines the way we think and act. It is a matter of collective attitude for all of us, men and women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u412	Mrs. Kozobol from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u413	Thank you, Mr President. I could not talk at all about what has been said, but I just want to make a small remark, because we are talking about such a nice piece of legislation and yet there is a glamour, a criticism of the government. I would like to say here that nothing has been done by this government, apart from this particular loan contract to support it, manage it properly and do what it has done, would be okay. Because that's what SYRIZA said in the September elections. Some people, however, forget that elections were held in September. So while only that was what he did, he would be fine and in line with what he promised, this government is doing work and useful work. The balance sheet of what has been done and continues to be carried out in parallel with the implementation of the agreement with the lenders is much. In other words, he's very big, and all of this has a look mainly at the weak man, the human rights. This draft law also strengthens and strengthens human rights. And I say to strengthen them and strengthen them, because this is a European convention that our country could ratify, and the legislation would be a fine report of ideas against violence, a wish of encouragement and exodus, which would refer to the existing legislative framework for protection. We have one of those. The provisions on domestic violence, our Criminal Code, the provisions on the civil compensation of a person harmed by an unjust act of another person, would still be positive, but at a minimum. The expedited Ministry, on the other hand, has chosen the difficult but effective path to the adoption by our national law of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and at the same time to legislate on those rules which ensure the implementation of the Convention. Thus, the necessary measures proposed by the Convention in almost all its provisions to prevent and combat violence against women are legislation in this draft law. We have a coordinated effort to disseminate the principles of the Convention in all areas of state activity, education, culture and information. Enlargement of the notion of the family is to be taken over by persons associated with a cohabitation agreement. Enter Law 3500/2006 with the definition of sanctions for the person to whom the crime of domestic violence is attributed in order to make the criminal mediation more essential. I should like to say here that this has been requested, if I am not mistaken, by the rapporteur for the Democratic Independence. But that's exactly what today's bill does. It imposes sanctions on the person who does not comply with the criminal mediation procedure. The suspension of the limitation of domestic violence, when the victim is a minor until his adulthood and for one year after that, is introduced. We have imposed restrictive conditions for the mental and physical protection of the victim. These are now imposed by the prosecutor in charge of the case. We also have a widening of expenditure covered by the Greek Compensation Authority operating at the Ministry of Justice. It is also very important that a ban on arms clearance should be banned for those who have been prosecuted for domestic violence and by amending the Criminal Code, the customs, traditions and religion that the perpetrator in the wrongdoing are not elements that are capable of reducing the penalty, and it is a criminal offence to urge genital mutilation or its propaganda, the provocation of terror and concern by persistent pursuit or persistent surveillance of the face. Because the incidents of violence against women, including domestic violence, are often not denounced or when they are denounced, secretly maintained, the feeling is that these are not numerous. The reality, unfortunately, disproves that impression. Gender violence has increased sharply in recent years. At European level, thirteen million women suffered physical violence in one year and three million seven hundred thousand were victims of sexual abuse. In Greece, according to the latest statistics, 34% of Greeks know about the surroundings or neighborhood of a woman who has fallen victim to domestic violence. This percentage is increased by 12% compared to a previous study. It is the third highest, unfortunately, in the European Union. The SOS 15900 telephone line has received more than twenty thousand calls in five years. In this context, the ratification of this convention and the provision and introduction of implementing rules will further ensure respect for women's rights, restrict their deprivation of fundamental rights, while monitoring its implementation through the establishment of a GREVIO. I would also like to make a reference to the provision of Article 30, according to which the Ministry of Justice is subsidising students for obtaining a diploma of up to twenty employees annually in detention shops in a course of study of the Greek Open University on the organisation and operation of the Public Administration. It goes without saying that the beneficial effect of the measure on the operation of detention stores is one that I will not argue with. I will only mention that this provision is part of a comprehensive and non-partial plan prepared by the Ministry of Justice for the training of both prisoners and prison staff. In this planning, the great importance of training prison staff was taken into account. This section has already been launched in cooperation with the Institute for Training of the National Centre for Public Administration and Administration. Efforts to implement the higher education commitment come to supplement the current provision. Finally, I would like to welcome the amendment aimed at the administrative reorganisation of the Korydalos Booking Store. Here, I would like to support something that has been said by the New Democracy that remembers prisons only when it is to plunder. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President. They did not see and did not hear the progress made in the training, training and living of the prisoners, they did not hear the praises received by our country where sanctions were taken before, but only saw the guard in Korydalos, who was flogged. Here, I would like to say that he, in both his written reference and his disciplinary bodies, spoke only of verbal violence. And at this point I would like to submit the press release of the Ministry of Justice that says all of this. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Panayota Kozobol - Amanatidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The representatives of the New Democracy do not see the press releases, but read 'PARAPOLICA'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u414	Thank you, too. Parliamentary spokesman for the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr Theocharopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u415	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a bill by the Ministry of Justice on the ratification of the Istanbul Convention, as it is well known, on the fight against violence against women and domestic violence, which, according to the international amnesty, is a violation of human rights. In Amnesty International itself, it is the most advanced and extensive international treaty on combating violence against women. Recognises that violence is a violation of human rights and provides for measures aimed at preventing violence, protecting victims and prosecuting offenders. Such contracts must come for ratification immediately, without one day's delay. This long-standing delay must not be made on such serious issues again. But you have been in government for three years and not opposition. That is why it has been delayed for another three years. So you are also responsible for not bringing it to the government for three years now. It is important and the provision of Article 339 of the Criminal Code, according to which there is no criminal prosecution if a marriage between the person concerned and the person suffering from the child is carried out. Finally, this article changes, at last, this unacceptable regulation is abolished. Of course, unfortunately, the bill is not just about the contract, as it should have been, but about many unnecessarily unnecessarily with the main theme. This bill is fragmentary, as regards the overall treatment of the social phenomenon of violence, selectively incorporates the articles of the Convention, does not contain any support of the provisions of measures and, of course, is a misguided legal position because of the addition of other provisions, but also of the sloppy treatment of the other provisions. Amendments have been tabled by the Tourism and Culture Ministers, and tomorrow we have the Ministry of Shipping bill. An amendment was tabled on a large subject by the Minister for Culture. That is why we are talking about today or other provisions, one of which I shall be speaking next, we had a debate this morning. I think all of these issues and this serious issue is brought down by the government itself. She herself is downgrading this serious debate, which should be done on this serious sanction, which we agree in principle and which we have made clear. But the government doesn't change the question. And he proves it today. You told us, Minister, that you included Part Three, so that you would not bring any amendments. Nice thinking. A number of amendments have finally been tabled. You even told us that this was a good piece of legislation, as the third part is not about the Ministry, but you forgot to say that they remain regardless of women's violence, unless you think it is right compared to what the government does in other bills. You also told us that a bill is coming which ensures equality and equality for women and includes provisions against women's violence. I mean, he comes next. The question is when. Will it complement the existing one, so that there will be a single legalization? The proposed legislation is clearly an important step. However, their effectiveness will be judged by the extent to which they are implemented. There is a great problem here in our country. After all, we have recently seen it in the Gender ID law, which is still not being applied in the right way as a debtor. There are two cases in this regard recently, where the procedure was made public in court. I don't know if you've been informed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u416	The judge's mistake.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u417	The two applicants were found to be exposed to the public.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u418	The judge was wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u419	That's what I'm saying. I'm saying there's a problem many times in application. There's no problem with the provisions. There is a problem with the application of the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u420	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u421	That's exactly what I'm talking about. I say that in such cases we need to see whether you need to intervene. That's what I said if you heard me. And since we mention the cohabitation agreement, and of course I would like to say to the citizenship and the mosque and to all that the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative has said that they have been passed by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, you have forgotten that the ANELs have voted against and we have supported the cohabitation agreement, the mosque, the citizenship and all these elements, both in committee and in plenary, to tell us today that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has supported them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u422	But he did. Legislation. He brought them to the House for vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u423	Please, I ask SYRIZA to know at least who he co-pilots and how some progressive arrangements have been made and have become the law of the state.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u424	Did he bring them to the House for vote?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u425	And arrogance has its limit.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u426	Okay, you guys talking about arrogance? We're going crazy!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u427	There is arrogance when you talk in particular about these arrangements, which you should say that the Democratic Integration and the POTAMI have held a strong stand away from a sterile opposition and have maintained their programming position, which has actually made these arrangements progress. It takes synergy between many forces and institutions. A common path of action and cooperation with a vision of ensuring equality must be found. There is no doubt that there has been a development since the post-doctoral age, which at the time a limited number of women said the motto: "I am not my father, I am not my husband, I am myself." At the time at least this number of women was handwritten. Now there have been achievements and women's emancipation has gained ground. Nevertheless, the situation remains bleak in many areas. The report by the Committee on Women's Rights and the European Parliament's Committee on Civil Liberties has features. They've been reported to the committee. I don't have to mention them here. However, it is really shocking that every seven minutes there is a rape, since in the 20 women there has been a rape and so on. This is devastating. This is the most widespread crime in the world, affecting the life, dignity and freedom of half the world's population. The phenomena of racial violence are growing rapidly and are often covered and finally buried. A characteristic example - you will allow me to mention too - is the tragic history of Elena Franzis from Cyprus, who killed himself in her twenty-nine days. History begins only from the four years of her sexual abuse by her stepfather, a priest. Crimeal mistakes in society. Ten years old, he denounced them. He didn't believe. When she was grown up, she left home, reported them, studied social worker, and finally killed herself in her twenty - nine. Why am I talking about this tragic story? Because the inertia of the competent authorities, the lack of social services, interventions in justice, direct or indirect pressures, bureaucracy, osmosis with conservative institutions does not only concern Cyprus, but also our country and we must address them, we must provide solutions, so that there are no other victims. In the bill, of course, there are also provisions that make us wonder about certain issues. While the article of the contract creates an explicit international contractual obligation to criminalise the deliberate, repeated involvement of a person with threatening behaviour directed at another person, the Greek version also includes the element of the expressed will of the victim that is likely to complicate the evidence procedure. I don't know if you have anything to say about it, if it's been in for a reason that we can't understand. Now, as far as the second part of the bill is concerned, this has not even been consulted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u428	He's in. Third place isn't in.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u429	The second part in which we agree, as is the first part. As far as the third part is concerned, these are provisions which are irrelevant to the issue of violence against women. The provisions in Part Three of the bill show provocative, if not customer tactics. I don't have the time right now. Mrs. Kefalidou mentioned them in detail. Extension for extra service, secondments, staff transfers to the Ministry of Justice. One wonders who will ultimately be staying for the national mobility system, so that there are constant exceptions. There is a debate on extensions, secondments, transfers, derogations to the detriment of a substantial and thorough debate on the modernisation of this school. Minister, this morning we had a conflict, I want to believe, which you came to very irritated with. Instead of answering the questions we ask you, you have attacked us because we have asked you specific questions about what a paragraph of an article refers to. At least to us who have consistently programmed opposition to everything, ask you and expect responsible answers, we have not expected this. You have reached the point where you are equalising the opposition, criticism, positions, questions here with the positions of your co-chairmen, Mr Katsiki in particular about what he said the other day, when we specifically asked you to commit yourself to what is going on with the eight, if there is any way of interpreting a provision, and so on. And, Minister, I would like to believe that you have made an attack on this issue which is inappropriate at national level, because it is a national issue. Questions have been raised. Questions are also raised by Mrs Kefalidou in the committees and I in here. Answering the questions and moving forward with the debate. We have never asked you the question of whether it will not be done on the basis of the provision. Why did you refer to that? We told you whether it could be interpreted in relation to the eight in relation to prolonging their eighteenth. That was just the question. It was their eighteenth day the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u430	You did not say that at the "Macedonian Agency".
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u431	That's exactly it. And it's a suspicious arrangement, if you want to say what we said this morning. That is why we are asking you what is happening and whether it will be possible to do so because it ends up as we have been informed. You'll know better when it's over. In April, it expires in eighteen months. So are we asking you, is this possible to be interpreted in this way? That was a clear question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u432	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u433	Look, instead of responding to us, now, Minister, in the publications that are in existence this afternoon on four major journalistic sites, which say: 'As the Ministry says, as far as the eight Turkish officers are concerned, this provision will only concern them if the neighbour resubmits their extradition, and so far Turkey's requests have been rejected by the competent judicial authorities'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u434	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u435	What Turkey says you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u436	Minister, it is called the 'GENERAL', 'KATHMERINA' and 'the NEWS', and I ask you a question. Can't you at the end of my location answer? Can't you answer it if it's true or if it doesn't?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u437	Would you like me to tell you in good faith?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u438	I'm asking you good faith. Answer: 'No, I disprove it'. Because he writes: 'the sources of the Ministry'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u439	Can I answer you now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u440	I don't have a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u441	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u442	Mr. Theocharopoulos, I answered you immediately this morning and replied to you both on the essential as far as the legal issue is concerned. And I told you that this provision does not concern the Turkish officers, because the provision refers to the convicted, in particular Article 55 of the Penitentiary Code. What is this nonsense, while there is an explicit statement from the Minister of Justice in the House? I wonder how you bring this back at seven o'clock this afternoon.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u443	Minister, I'm telling you what the press releases say this afternoon.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u444	In addition to the publications, there is Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u445	Here we are, in the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u446	What did I tell you this morning?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u447	Why not answer the House?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u448	What did I tell you this morning?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u449	Does it bother you to answer the questions?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u450	Mr. Theoharopoulos, in the morning, what did I say?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u451	So after the morning, Minister, at noon...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u452	I'm now lifting my hands up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u453	I submit to the Minutes four articles this afternoon that the Ministry has informed us about these things. Disprove.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u454	What's to disprove? I spoke here this morning. I don't understand. I told you this morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u455	Can't I ask you in the House to inform the House?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u456	I told you, Mr. Theocharopoulos. I've answered your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u457	Why is this irritation about a matter that is the responsibility of yours, Minister? Why this irritation?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u458	I told you. I answer you calmly and trustworthyly. So I tell you that this morning I said that this provision - I said to you, not to someone else -...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u459	This morning you said that you were disturbed by our questions to the same extent that you condemn them with Mr Katsikis, Mr Contonis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u460	That's all.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u461	Is that possible?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u462	You can make any criticisms you want. On the substance, however, Mr Theocharopoulos, I told you that this provision does not have any business with prisoners under the administrative procedure. This provision is a provision amending an article of the Penal Code. I mean, here we have...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u463	Mr. Theocharopoulos, is it enough for you to clarify the Minister? Yes or no? I think it's not good to pull this off.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u464	But what else can I say?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u465	I'm not pulling anything, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u466	This pilocylinda is not good.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u467	I'm continuing my speech. I have this commitment that you are saying at this moment that, when it is done, the rule of law will apply and will be free, in accordance with the rule of law in our country. We are saying this here in plenary today, so that we can see it in a couple of months and that it is precisely this continuation. Minister, I don't have the time. I was going to...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u468	Indeed, you don't have time. I can confirm that, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u469	The only two minutes I've been interrupted, Mr. President. I was going to tell you this in relation to three recent cases of justice, which surprised us too. We have said that no one should fall into a trap, which in the name of a so-called defender of the poor, the executive should replace the judiciary. That's the one thing. That is why we disagree with the positions of government officials that you have the government, but not the power. On the other hand, we do not want a scene where judges are above any criticism. Political purposes, wherever they come from, must break their faces to the rule of law. I am referring to three cases: the Metropolitan Ambrosius case, the most characteristic of which was the rhetoric of hatred, which was also the protection of human rights in our country. Don't say what he said about a charge of our people in the country today. And, of course, it doesn't fit...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u470	Don't say it. It's strictly inappropriate.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u471	I shall conclude, Mr President. I think it is useful and I think the Minister also wants our positions for these three examples, because they are useful. I'm done. This is not a controversy at the moment. On the subject, which we are of course aware of, the case will be re-examined at the request of the prosecutor. I don't know if you should apply to the D.A. to have appealed if you had that right. This is a very serious matter, because you could also exercise the right. You also asked to receive the proceedings. After you requested them here, you could have asked for the second case, for the acquittal decision on your co-pilot, Mr. Kammenos, in relation to Mr. Pachta, where he urged for lynching. This decision, the second one, opened us up to us. The third, of course, in relation to how to teach religiouss, is a decision that practically proves the obstacles to a modern, open society, a society without fear of conduct and, in any case, respecting the Constitution and the conquest of struggles of Western legal culture and the constitutionalized by the Greek Constitution of unreserved religion and freedom of religious conscience. How exactly else will we support the country's European path and face the challenges? Of course - let me say - your government's responsibilities are enormous, as Mr Tsipras himself then retreated against those pressures - you remember - with the threats of Mr Kammenos, who accepted them and, of course, had kicked the minister responsible who had brought this change. Progressive changes are therefore, in fact, being proved, ladies and gentlemen, and in practice we are proposing them, which is why we have also made the proposal for a constitutional review in the last few years. There are also issues relating to your Ministry, Mr. Kontonis, the proposal we have made, and at some point we would like you to answer...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u472	Now is not the time to expand.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u473	...like, of course, all the parties of the Greek Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u474	Thank you, too. Mrs. Thalerite from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u475	Let me begin with Amendment No 1545, which requested clarification of the fact that we tabled this amendment as Members. You know very well that this proposed arrangement comes to clarify and exclude possible interpretations attributed to the secondments and availability of civil servants, in particular those secondments or dispositions made through the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction to the political offices. You know very well - and in particular Mr Georgiodas - that this legislation was in existence, but with two subsequent laws, Law 3528/2007 and Law 4440/2016, where time periods have been set, there is a confusion and a interpretation of the secondments, which creates a number of problems for posted civil servants, and therefore also for Members' parliamentary offices. We therefore propose, as the amendment has been tabled, to the part which says 'to the political offices which are held in the arable land. 63/2005 and at the point where it says "on the basis of special provisions", make it even more clear why there is still confusion, "on the basis of the provisions of Article 6 of Law 1878/1990 and Articles 2 and 3 of Law 1895/1990" and continue "in the offices of parties and Members" etc. as it does. We say this because these are the two old laws, which really define all the procedures for the secondment of civil servants to civil offices, particularly through the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction, which many bodies have to do in this way. With regard to the bill, ladies and gentlemen, despite the efforts of the Opposition to reduce the importance of ratification, we, together with the feminist feminist movement, regard today as a milestone. And we regard it as a milestone because fortunately all the laws and plans preceded the struggles of the women's and feminist movement. After seven years these struggles have led to the signing of the Convention, where their lasting request, namely the adoption of a single law, covering all forms of violence against women in private and public life, in family, in personal relations, in workplaces, in education, in social and political institutions. Eventually, has this government delayed introducing the ratification of the convention into Parliament, yes or no? Despite the Minister's clarifications at committee meetings and the speeches made by colleagues and colleagues, this government has not delayed the introduction of ratification of the Convention to Parliament. Because it did not simply introduce a sanction, but it brought forward a draft contract-based law, thereby giving an important lead in the implementation of this convention, which is the most serious. Once again we repeat that a legislative committee was set up, at the initiative of the Gender Equality Secretary-General, in cooperation with the Secretary-General of Human Rights of the Ministry of Justice, where they worked for this preparation for the implementation of the Convention, so that we today as a country and as a state have an institutional lead, which, in my opinion, will play an important role in the immediate implementation of the Convention, together with the Public Network of Structures for the Prevention and Management of Emphysical Violence and Endogenous Violence. However, in addition to the battle for which party has adopted a first ratification to prevent and deal with violence, we consider it necessary for a broad democratic majority, because legislation is not enough, ladies and gentlemen, to be implemented. It takes a series of actions, which I will mention below, to see that the Convention is to be implemented in practice. And that is why we look forward to a personal and political commitment to the primary prevention of racial violence in all of us who belong to the democratic arch. We know from a pan-European survey of 2014 that 25% of women in Greece have been victims of physical, sexual or psychological violence at the age of 15. Since 2011, the General Secretariat of Equality has been operating 24/7 "SOS Gramme 15900", where victims, as well as third parties, can be contacted to report instances of violence. A total of four thousand sixty-sixteen complaints were received last year, of which three thousand thirty-four calls came from the same abused women, while the thousands of two hundred and thirty-two calls came from third persons concerned seeing signs on the women's body. The consequences? They have been well mentioned by Mr Deussa. These are consequences that are not fatal, that is, fatal. We are talking about women's physical health, injuries, unwanted pregnancy and so on, behaviours of self-injuriousness. There are also effects on mental health, post-traumatic stress. Mr Doussina mentioned it and explained it. To earn time, I will not refer to depression, fear, low self-esteem, and so on, the consequences that are fatal, suicide, maternal mortality, homicide, feminine. So this contract is very important. Why? For the first time, the structural nature of violence against women is recognized in our country, and it is defined as gender-based violence. It is recognised that violence against women is one of the most important social mechanisms through which women are forced into an unequal position. Secondly, it recognises and defines the different forms of racial violence. And why do we care about that? We are interested in being able to understand and see what the link between the different forms of violence against women is, what the variations of violence are, particularly when it comes to a different cultural context. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, give me some more time, because I also had to talk about the amendment. In particular, we can draw up integrated, coherent, coordinated policies to tackle violence, with preventive and therapeutic programmes and with specific support services. I will not say what innovations the contract introduces. What I would like to stress, however, is that we are again in a privileged position as a country in the commitment to the Convention on essential gender equality, women's emancipation, because the consultation on the draft law on essential gender equality has already ended, so we are therefore going with another advantage in the implementation of this convention. I am not going to mention what areas this contract innovation is going to be, to get time. But I will tell you, ladies and gentlemen, what I want to do about how we should be concerned about the implementation of this convention. First of all, we must understand that this delay gives us a great lead, because two, two and a half years we have prepared for the implementation of this convention. And the lead is that we're going with a draft law, which currently has significant amendments to the Criminal Code. In four articles of the Criminal Code there are amendments and a new article is added. We amend five laws and a presidential decree. We also have an integrated network of sixty-two universal coverage structures to prevent and deal with forms of violence, we have the "SOS Gramme", the fifteen advisory centres in the thirteen regions, the twenty-five consultancy centres in the municipalities and the nineteen hostels in municipalities and the two in the National Social Solidarity Centre. And we must ensure that these structures continue, because we are judged on whether or not we implement the convention. At the same time, I will not repeat what the President of Parliament said, that legislation is not enough, but we must all stand on the democratic arch to defend women's unrealistic right to a life without violence.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u476	Come on, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u477	And that's what I'd suggest.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u478	That would be a good end, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u479	I would suggest under Rule 70 - and I shall end with this, Mr President - that the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and domestic violence, which we are discussing here today, which provides for the participation of parliaments in the monitoring of measures taken to implement the Convention, to commit ourselves to preventing and eradicating the phenomenon of sexism in this Parliament, to condemn all sexist behaviour in Parliament's procedures. I believe that we can commit ourselves, giving a positive example as a Parliament respecting the rights of women - workers and representatives - and their right to a life without violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u480	The Minister has the floor for two minutes to develop some amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u481	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say to the House that the ministerial amendments that have been tabled, which I have not spoken about, 1537, 1542 and 1544, which have been developed by the relevant ministers, are accepted and I would ask them to be included in the draft. In addition, the parliamentary amendment, to which Mrs Theleritis has just referred, is accepted in 1545. There are two amendments tabled by Members of the House, which are not just moving in the right direction, but are right. We just need a little time to check on some evidence. One is the amendment tabled by two JRC Members concerning the transport of waste, bones and ashes of Greek political refugees whose Greek citizenship has been removed since the Civil War. If this restriction applies, ladies and gentlemen, I commit that the next bill of the Ministry of Justice, which will also have 'other provisions', will be included. We simply want to check whether the deprivation of Greek citizenship is conditional on the transfer of the body or bones or the ashes of a Greek whose nationality had been removed. The other amendment - Mr Skourletis also mentioned it - is, if I am not mistaken, five Members of the Democratic Alliance. It's absolutely right. In a subsequent bill, as the Minister for the Interior said, on naturalisation and citizenship, it will also be included, after having been treated in this regard by the Ministry of the Interior. You realise that both are well placed by the government in view of further legislative initiatives. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u482	Bone without citizenship! Have you ever heard of it before?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u483	Mr President, I would like to speak on what the Minister said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u484	Would you like some clarification?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u485	I would like to ask the Minister in an amendment which has just been accepted, of tourism, if it can be divided into three articles, because it is made up of three articles. We are positive, but in an article we are not positive, so if there is any possibility, we can separate this amendment so that in the two of its three articles we can be positive. That is why we ask if you can make this amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u486	Mr President, it is well known in the House and in the Bureau that this division cannot be carried out, just as is the case with the articles that we are voting on in the bill, where some paragraphs may find agreeable and some others do not. So it has come here as a single legislative text and it cannot be broken up at the moment. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u487	Mr. Sevastakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u488	Thank you very much, Mr President. As an epic part of a historical text, a historical book by Giannis Katris, which reflects a part of modern Greek history, there is the anonymous testimony of a tortured woman, who is raped and feminine. It could be a variation of the first part of a great film by the Tavian brothers, 'Haus', on Pirandello texts. The violence in Greece has a historical substrate. It has been experienced, somehow assimilated by the traditional word, by the living and inherited collective experience. It was the violence in the division of labour, which in particular in the early rural period was extremely burdensome. As I said before, the political violence, the registration of the civil war, the behaviour of the civil war. But there was another form of violence, it was the violence of silence. The women’s involvement in the writing of history, the women’s participation in spiritual production, the women’s participation in productive creation inversely for so many years was avoided, was the shadowy face of history. So there is also a transport or even literal violence of another type. Therefore, in the bill that comes from incorporating this directive, it has its historic densities that give it tension and resurrect this bill, this incorporation of the directive. I mean, in recent years, a whole series of revivals have been happening, from anachronism. Intercultural osmosis has been inherited, many forms of violence, which we were supposed to have overcome historically and culturally, too, have been overcome. Western society had organised a legal framework in which violence had been removed and insecurity and critical demonstrations updated the forms of violence. It is therefore a bill that, although it seems self-evident or bears a self-evident and acceptable form of law in fact has a very strong interventionist character because of this collective and mass anachronism. There is also another form of racial violence, which may not be evaluated as very important, which is the dispersal of visual information, it is the way in which a certain assessment of women and attitudes toward women is on the Internet. These cultural distortions are considered to be informal forms of violence. However, I consider them extremely massive and now strong in organisation and relations and in the assessment of relationships, they contain rating codes. So the violence, the violence of concealment, conventional violence, the historical violence, the cultural forms of violence that are coming, I think they are admonishing, teaching us and imposing us ways of dealing with and also of reacting. However, they also impose another form of acidicity. There are ever-new forms of racial violence, renewed and strengthened forms of violence that we each have to deal with by muzzling, voting. I would like to make one final comment - since the President as a whole is strict, where he wants, I always comply - on this claim that comes and comes back about the eight Turks. I think Mr Vorides has already accepted the fact that the term 'convicts' himself removes the possibility of the wording being related to the eight Turks. However, I would like to stress that the rule of law, under the conditions introduced by the Western European model, is not self-evident. However, I would like to say that we are reclaiming what we thought is self-evident and a huge cultural backwardness is renovating it. With these considerations, I would like to say that this bill, and others that need to be followed and that relate to other categories of violence, is an urgent one and we should support it, in agreement with what we have accepted, that Western urban democracy and its worthwhile burden are the area where we can coexist and conclude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u489	So do we. Mr. Sevastakis dismantled the sound of the bell! Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how to operate, forty-eight students and students and seven educational attendants from the Kallitheas Pierias elementary school and from the 18th Municipal School of Rhodes. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Hadjisavvas, Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u490	Thank you. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] Since this morning there has been a fuss about something that I cannot reach a conclusion, what is the final purpose of this insistence on an amendment tabled by the Ministry of Justice and says that it concerns the eight who are being held. They're being held for their own safety. And what would you like, being released or extradited to Turkey? Because demands for extradition to Turkey have been rejected, this has ended. So they're being held for their safety. Whether it's going to be released to Greece or being extradited to Turkey, for me it's one and that. It's like giving them a present to Erdogan. For the bill now: The People's Association - Golden Dawn firmly believes that the family is the main pillar of the Greek nation. The woman inside the family plays a key and key role both as a mother and as a daughter and as a husband and as a worker. What forms of violence, however, are they practiced on women in all the roles I have described above in today's society? Naturally, physical violence is condemned by all, not only in terms of women, but also in terms of children, domestically. But here comes the hypocrisy of all those who have been abused and misappropriated state money all these decades, those who signed every form and size of a memorandum and impose continuous and overwhelming psychological violence on Greek society and on women. So it is the violence that the woman as a mother accepts, which cannot meet the needs of her children. Needless, basic goods, he can't offer them. It is the psychological violence that exists as a husband who cannot help her husband with the daily problems she faces professionally or the woman as a daughter, who sees depression and disappointment in her parents' eyes. And of course, the working woman, who is unemployed most of the time, but when she is a worker, is a slave to the employer, to the requirements of capital, but also to the demands of her employers. So you come here and want to make a ratification and incorporation into national legislation for the Council of Europe Convention on the prevention and fight against violence against women and domestic violence, called the Istanbul Convention. It is ironic, unless it has been symbolically done, because it recognises that in Turkey and Istanbul women's rights are being violated. If you recognize this, how do you then accept Erdogan swinging around, as if he were a leader of a democratic state where the rights of people and women are not being violated? In its preamble, the authors state that they aim to create a Europe free of violence against women and domestic violence. You know that unfortunately in Europe in recent years there has been the saria, there is the handkerchief, there is the bourgeoisie. The treatment of women as a person with no rights, the possibility of being beaten by the husband as normal practice, the compulsory marriage of minor girls even at the age of about 10 and the inhumane habit of clitoritomy are practices that are widely accepted by the large majority of Islamic populations, who have massively invaded and settled in Europe as illegal immigrants under the blessings of the stateless bureaucrats of Brussels. So these barbaric, then, for European Christian societies, habits and perceptions have Islam legal, religious and moral basis. Otherwise, there were laws dealing with what was happening in European countries. It is assumed that, in practice, this convention will prove inadequate and ineffective if it attempts to deal with the symptoms only by leaving to the unavoidable causes of this form of violence. Article 2 now amends the provisions of the Criminal Code in order to adapt national legislation to the provisions of that convention, and provision is made for imprisonment for anyone who is particularly fond of the Islamists, but who is secretly or secretly carried out in many European cities, even in Athens, according to complaints. But there are no official complaints to the police or the authorities. If these incidents are not reported, how will you punish them? Of course we had the other laughing matter. A few months ago in a committee a representative came from a service for women's rights. He said he's going and doing some seminars and lectures on hot spots that he has Islamic but also Roma camps. They fill up - it says - the halls, but the problem is that they only fill with men, because they do not allow their wives to watch them. In Article 3, amendments are made to the existing legislation for the main purpose of applying the provisions of the Convention to equate the concept of family and spouses with the archipelago-friendly definition of the cohabitation pact and the parts of the Cohabitation Pact. Since we are consistent in our positions and with what we had when the coexistence agreement was passed, we are voting against. In Article 4 you leave a void which excludes complaints that some illegal immigrants have fallen victim to violence and will be entitled to a residence permit. If illegal immigrants hit their women on purpose and their wives denounce it, they will be allowed to stay and they and their men will remain. The second part of the bill is an incorporation of a Council of Europe decision. Continuing deterioration of domestic legislation continues. What they tell us from Europe. They legislate about everything, interfere in everything. It is worth mentioning, however, that the wording of Article 7, which lists the offences for which, when foreign judicial decisions have been issued, they are immediately recognised by Greece, without having previously been checked whether these acts are criminal and on the basis of domestic criminal law and by bypassing the principle of double-tracking. These actions, therefore, include crime with racist and xenophobic characteristics. This definition is now being used in many European countries to criminalise the expression. It is part of an overall attempt to suppress the rise of patriotic parties in Europe. And why are you doing this? Because the left-wing communists are running out of account. You don't have a record anymore. You've made your turn, and by remembrance fighters, you've become memorial guardians. It's over. You can't say anything. The Social Democrats have been exposed. The example is PASOK, with the charge of the funds from Chohatzopoulos, Tsukatos, Mandeli and all that. The neoliberals - who ask for their electoral base, the patriots, are supposed to vote for them, and when they vote after them, the government of Venizelos and PASOK - neither do they have anything to say! So all you have left is to gag the Greek nationalists. In the third part of the present, according to the government's dear tactics, it is attempting in a fragmentary way to regulate matters of responsibility of the Ministry of Justice, to pay back, in other words, party notes and introduce "photographic" provisions, in order to serve, of course, the need to repay the Memorandum of Change, which I described before, and the sale of your ideological account. So the rest of this is about you who earn electoral clientele and you who lose electoral clientele. It's not about me as Golden Dawn. I now come to the amendments. This amendment with a general number 1533 is a terrible amendment! All the Memorandum Arc supports her. They are the arrangements of the Ministry of Interior regarding the state funding of political parties. The proposed amendment protects and considers that 50% of the state subsidy received by the political parties against bank claims that exist due to their late lending obligations is inappropriate. Are you serious? Poor parties need to protect the state grant! People are losing their homes because auctions are being held. Don't say they don't, because the "53" of SYRIZA ask the government for initiatives to protect themselves. If they don't, why are they asking for initiatives? Outside the world is threatened by collectors from the banks, which threaten them, who are constantly perpetuating them. People stay out without power, if they owe it, they cut it off. But the parties, other than Golden Dawn, which naturally does not receive state funding, legislate measures to protect their money. Now, for the loans they have taken, for how they will be repaid, some have made arrangements about it. So you realize we're voting against. Amendment No 1536 is in a positive direction. We have to understand that the policeman will best perform in an environment he knows. Not to mention the financial difficulties of their families, especially if they have many children. One of the provinces, who is called upon to serve in a department in Athens, cannot afford it, and often his parents support him. Of course, their trade union bodies, in order to gain political positions, do nothing but have police officers guarding auctions, have police officers hunting Greek patriots and protecting their own industry. Amendment No 1537 shows how seriously the government takes tourism in Greece. It brings such important changes to an amendment, while it should bring in a whole bill normally for tourism. Amendment No 1524, which provides for the regulation of issues relating to the acquisition of Greek citizenship by foreigners, by means of last-minute amendments to unrelated bills, naturally demonstrates once again the reluctance and urgency of the government and government policy on a matter of paramount importance. It should be clarified, however, that, if there were any possibility of a separate vote, we would be voting in favour of the proposed regulation in paragraph 7, which refers to the possibility of nominating homosexuals in the public sector. In particular, it stipulates that homosexuals who acquired Greek citizenship are not subject to the limitation of the need for one year after their acquisition in order to be able to be appointed in the public sector. Don't put it all together and don't blame the Greek expatriates. Finally, I will say this. I heard a SYRIZA MEP say that there is a tolerance to Greek society in open calls for violence and he meant the well-known case of Ambrosios' acquitment, which the Minister asked for. For the acquittal of Minister Kammenos, who called for violence, will you ask for the minutes, Minister? You should see her, too. Why was he acquitted? Is the call for violence different if you wear rasa and different if you're a minister? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like two-three minutes from my dentistry to finish. I leave the funnyness and go to the tragicity that, twice in a while, Annell MPs put positions in the public debate against our national interests: One yesterday, on the subject of exchanging the bazaar between Greece and Erdogan, the eight Turkish soldiers and both of our soldiers. And a few days ago, when a member of the ANELs "accidentally", he says, "a proposal for Skopje came to my mind, called the Central Balkan Republic", serving the project that says about rehab of Macedonia, the capital of Thessaloniki. It's just luck, too. They both said that they were unfortunate statements and that it was a misunderstanding. I really hope that they were unfortunate statements and misunderstandings. The European Union goes to Erdogan and says to him: 'You are a great leader, you deal with things everywhere, take money, take what you want', but they didn't give anything. On the other hand, we're giving Erdogan gifts all the time. A few days ago a smuggling ship was caught in Rhodes. They caught the Albanian who was the recipient of the smuggling goods, but the Turkish ship was released. That is, the people who brought them, the traffickers, were released in a few hours. They catch a woman in 2015 photographing military facilities at a hub in Rhodes and leaving her free, because she says - the ones she photographed appear on Google maps. So where the two of our guys got caught, where we don't know where they were caught, don't they look on Google maps? If it is, the Turks should leave them too. Yeah, that's easy. I shall refer to one last point and close in a minute. From Samara and Venizelos and Dozens a situation had begun not to answer questions not only written but also timely. Today, therefore, in my timely question, which was to be answered by the Ministry of Interior, the Minister came, answered others, but did not answer my question, and in other questions he answers us, because it is not one of those who are not generally answering the Golden Dawn. Here, of course, history goes far, goes in July 2016. I've asked this question dozens of times at the Ministry of National Defence. The Ministry of National Defence referred it to the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Interior continues the same violin, not to answer it. There are complaints from someone about a salesman as an agent in the U.S.A. That's not what we care about. The scandal is that it denounces the issue of Schengen visas, networks of smugglers from Turkey, drug trafficking, arms trafficking, trafficking in illegal immigrants. We are asking these questions here and they are not answering them. One MP of another party draws up a document at some point and the Minister of National Defence is forced to go out and tell him that "the evidence you give is from someone who is an MIT agent". So it does not protect the National Representation when it does not come to tell us who they are who denounce specific things in relation to the Turks. Come and let us know, any Minister who wants, National Defence, Homeland, whoever wants. Let us know, let us finish this story. It's a national matter, so I'll ask and ask again until I get an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u491	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u492	Minister, do you want to make a correction? Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u493	Mr President, with reference to Amendment No 1545/156, I said earlier that it was accepted and that is the case. However, I would like to say that two words should be replaced. Where reference is made to ‘on the basis of specific provisions’, the words ‘specific provisions’ shall be deleted and the provisions which must be inserted. In other words: 'in accordance with the provisions of Article 6 of Law 1878/1990 and Articles 2 and 3 of Law 1895/1990'. I say this so that there is no misinterpretation of what these specific provisions are. Mrs. Thalerite mentioned them earlier, and I was sure, but I was told that I should report them too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u494	Mr. Friends has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u495	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are experiencing an important institutional moment in a long-standing struggle, which continues, a struggle for women and children and girls to face the violence that is being done against them, whether within the family or in society. This long-standing negative tradition of discrimination against women and girls, but also sometimes among men and boys, our society has a duty to prevent it - and indeed the Council of Europe Convention speaks of prevention - but also in an exemplary way to deal with those who are concerned in these cases. This is a convention that has regulation - framework and the framework of these arrangements can be "destabilised" or given a radical democratic direction, depending on the correlations prevailing in each society, that is, whether we have a hegemony of progressive values and a strengthening of democratic conquests, or whether we have a regression in fundamentalist and religious sermons, in forms of authoritarianism and violence. Because, without saying that there is a constant violence, which all these forms of violence are the same - it is not the same, they are distinguished - it must be stressed that violence against women is being exercised in many ways, sometimes invisible and sometimes brutal. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] All forms of violence against women are obviously doomed, but unfortunately in words. These discrimination, based on the convention before us, the Istanbul Convention - even though late, it is ratified by the House - must be dealt with daily. There is no single treatment. It is a constant struggle, which concerns the whole of society, at a time when our society is fighting to restore a social relief of equality and democracy, leaving behind the regime of Memorandum coercives slowly, is the truth, without being able to make a success story at the moment, but we should not be giving hope. There is a legitimate hope that we can make steps out of the crisis, in which we are immersed. And elements of the crisis are devaluation and aggression against our weak fellow citizens. Both women and children are, indeed, our weak fellow citizens. What is stated in the Council of Europe Convention does not concern a few cases of women or women away from us. In fact, each country, depending on its cultural context, faces different faces rights and sometimes breaks down the rights of women and children. However, what the Council of Europe Convention says relates to the woman on our side, because the forms of domestic violence exist around us. With official Greek Police figures, in 2013 there were thirteen thousand seven hundred cases of domestic violence, with more than four thousand victims. The number of these incidents is constantly rising. Some end up in death and others in physical and mental injuries, most of the time. So we must see the problems, I repeat, that the woman of our next door faces. We should not think that the brutal abuse of women's rights elsewhere in the world is an alibi to various forms of violence which are being committed in our country against children and women. I would also like to stress that as a state, as a state, as a society, we have to take initiatives constantly to defeat fear - and the fear of stigmatism even more - that face victims of discrimination, which are subject to human dramas and are not often mentioned about these dramas that live in the state. It is a constant struggle, which is largely opposed to social roles, social roles of patriarchy, a family with anti-democratic structures, which we have often lived in our society and whose crisis unfortunately creates introverts and reproduces such forms of patriarchal family structure. I should like to take this opportunity to refer to a form of violence involving racism, hate crimes. Details were communicated yesterday for 2017. One or two more incidents, it turns out, over other years. Unfortunately, immigrants and children, refugees and children are subject to double violence, both in terms of their social sex and their origin. Many of these, as you have seen, are drowning in their attempt to come to Greece. And this is a form of violence, which has to do with the way in which our societies face fear for the other. With regard to the matters referred to in the other provisions and amendments. First of all, I would like to say that it is always a mistake and it is a bad piece of legislation to fill bills and even bills such as this for the ratification of the Istanbul Convention, with provisions which are irrelevant. That's a mistake. It is also wrong to think that, by the way, we can solve problems with a necessary legalisation, but it is not planned in time. For two amendments tabled by the JRC. One is the planning of crimes for which the DNA method will be used, and the other is the abolition of the known anti-terrorism, the 'terrorism', as we call 187A of the Criminal Code. I believe that the government has taken an initiative to limit the cases of DNA application and a framework for controlling this process. We have made legislation on this subject. I understand what the JRC says in its amendment, and I believe that we can further improve these regulations, but not by the way, study them and find a solution. Likewise, the issue of the radical change of 187A, the 'terrorist', and this is a programme commitment by the government and the SYRIZA party, and I believe that the Minister of Justice within the Committee on Legal Affairs has initiated certain procedures to ensure that these changes are made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u496	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u497	Ladies and gentlemen, there has been an in-depth debate with sufficient intensity on the issue of restricting licences to convicted persons who are, at the same time, in the process of being extradited, or who have decided to issue them. I honestly say to you that this matter was closed in committee because I had been detailed in the questions that had been asked by colleagues, that the provision proposed by the Government has nothing to do with the eight, nine today, Turkish officials. Unfortunately, on a sterile opposition rhetoric, which is making a rapid use of the anti-population media, there has been dispersal - and I say to you that it had been detailedly resolved in the committees - a false news story, that the provision rather than the amendment - I stress this, because the provision is embedded in the draft law, so it has not come on Wednesday, as some publications say, but it has been at least twenty days in public since the committee's procedures began, namely from 8 March - it refers to the eight Turkish officers, for whom the request for extradition has been rejected again by the Areo Pagogos. Ladies and gentlemen, I was particularly acute, which I am not used to, in today's debate, because if Mr Theocharopoulos, who spoke this morning, had taken the trouble of reading the provision and the amended provisions, and if he had bothered to look at the minutes of the committees, he would have found what other colleagues have said to him not from SYRIZA - Mr Vorides, for example - that this provision has something to do with the permissions of convicted and incarcerted in Greek prisons, who, once they have served 1/5 of their sentence, if there is a matter of extradition or decision, are not entitled to obtain permission. I told you why this provision is coming. Because if we have a convicted person - and this is why it refers to an amendment to the specific article of the Penal Code, Article 55 - who has been sentenced by a criminal court and who has issues open to his extradition, he cannot get permission. Because you too understand that this man on his first leave will attempt not to return to prison. Because, even if he serves his sentence in Greece, the extradition is awaiting him, the trial in another foreign state, which calls for extradition, and his possible conviction. I tell you that the offences for which extradition is requested are serious offences. They're murders, drugs, trafficking. It's a crime like that. If we do not take this legislative initiative then there will be a risk that the country will become a laughingstock of the world community. When the time comes for the extradition, he'll be gone. So you understand what the provision is about. It has nothing to do with citizens of another country who have no criminal convictions. They did, because this rhetoric, a sterile opposition rhetoric, was linked to national issues and to miserable and prejudicial positions that took place twenty-four hours ago. I would also like to refer to this, because Mr Katsikis, with a charge on his position, has referred to me and to my statements, and I would say that, ladies and gentlemen, when a Greek Member speaks publicly and says 'if justice can be circumvented, justice can be circumvented, the decisions of justice', that is not only an vague hypothetical reason. This may occur as a potential. I would therefore like to stress once again, as the Government representative, who speaks to the government, said that this was an unfortunate statement, which he has tried, as far as possible, to cancel with a written statement by the Member. On these issues, therefore, we must be very careful, because it cannot be well seated and there can be no background to such issues. I say it as quietly as I can. I am telling you, when I saw such statements going around the Internet this morning, when the assurances and clarifications requested have been given, and when the provision is perfectly understandable that it speaks of convicted people who are incarcerated, because of their condemnation, in the penitentiary institutions of the country, it goes beyond any limit. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been a criticism of the government and during the discussions in the committee, but today, that the government has brought the Istanbul Convention to ratification - not just ratification, but a draft law - together with a European Commission framework decision, which, I repeat, has been pending since 2009, that is, nine years since the necessary integration, and with other provisions of the Ministry of Justice, which are necessary for the proper functioning of the agencies responsible for the supervision of the Ministry. I do not hide it to you that I was sure of today's result and today's picture. From those who accused us of not showing that sanctity to the Istanbul Convention, do you know how many Members have declared themselves to speak at today's meeting? Well, just so you know: By SYRIZA, nineteen MPs have been declared from New Democracy four, from Golden Dawn two, one from the River, none of the Democratic Compact.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u498	How much we're okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u499	You're fine. What can I tell you? I would therefore like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that hypocrisy goes beyond what you are accusing the government of not showing the interest in the contract being ratified and, when that image appears, that no Members of this House or very few Members are taking part in the debate. I do not want to say about Pharisees and hypocrites, but here some people should take the picture they give in the debate and interest shown by their parties very seriously. Secondly, the government was accused of bringing some amendments to the House. First of all, I would like to say that very many of the relevant ministers have come to the committees and presented them, so that they can be aware of all the Members of all the parties and not come to the House lately. There have also been amendments which came directly to Parliament. You know very well that for emergencies this thing is justified. I won't mention what happened with the previous government. I will not mention it, ladies and gentlemen, because we have remembered the last days of 2014 that they had come to a meeting, if I am not mistaken, over seventeen amendments. I'm getting it out of the conversation. I'm telling you that for those who criticize us. I would like to point out, however, that in today's debate, not only amendments have been tabled by the government and the ministers of the government. Amendments were tabled by Opposition. For two of these amendments, in fact, I said that they are in an absolutely positive direction. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Colom i Naval, for the excellent work he has done and for the work he has done. However, if this is the case for the Vice-Presidents, why does it not apply to the government? And if they table amendments tabled by Members of this House, why cannot the government and the ministers, who have tabled the amendments, have answered questions and so on.Huh? So, ladies and gentlemen, we must not create issues where they do not exist. I think it is the epitome of good legislature to come up with a bill from the Ministry of Justice, to include a key piece of legislation, one main piece of legislation, another that has been delayed for nine years and other provisions which do not bring them into line with amendments, but are provisions of the draft law and can be read in good time by parliamentarians, know their content and be placed in a responsible position. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday something happened, for which I did not see any communication from a party and no position in this House today. Yesterday, ladies and gentlemen, in Piraeus, we had violence against a political party and against a political party. And I wonder whether the New Democracy, the Democratic Integration, the Potami, all those who, with the slightest - and rightly most of all, are making a serious complaint - and rightly so, I repeat - incidents of violence - are unfairly showing the Government in such cases, unjustly and unjustly stir them up - for this incident which happened yesterday in Piraeus from a hundred and fifty - had nothing to say about it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u500	In Thessalonica, we had violence.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u501	We had violence against a political party and a political party official. Didn't you have anything to say? Or do the selective families of Mr Marinakis and Mitsotakis ban the issue of communications? Or the fact that Mr Marinakis' newspapers are the dukes of the Democratic Association, does that forbid the Democratic Partnership to issue a statement, thus, about the eyes of the world? What's the matter? Do we have selective cases of violence, and indeed those combined with the exercise of criminal prosecution against Mr Marinakis, on the most serious case of 'NOOR 1'? Because there was no other object of protest than those guys who were presenting the protesters yesterday. So the very serious incidents, which lead us to 1963 and to the counter-concentrations, when Lambrakis spoke, have nothing to say about the opposition? Does he suffer them and cover them? However, as long as it covers them, the special relationships with business interests are revealed and understood by the Greek people. He also realises another thing that the government is not giving to anyone, has no privileged relations with any businessman and leaves the institutions, the institutions concerned, to do what they need to do. And that's what we're all judging. Ladies and gentlemen, I was struck by a revulsion of the Golden Dawn rapporteur, who did not give much or much credit to the LEADER for the moves to be made to auctions. I do not have much to say, because now what to talk about, what to do with it. We had said on 21 December last year in Parliament that, if anyone is aware of having been exposed and the first home auction procedure completed, they should come to Parliament and say so. From December to today, when March ends, no one has made such a statement or complaint. I also said, then, that we need it, so that we can make progress. What does that prove, ladies and gentlemen? That to date the law works to the absolute extent and there is no first home and no popular residence that has been auctioned, because, if there had been, not one, but half, some would have literally ruined the world. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been a reference - and that is where I really reacted - from Mr Amyras to something. He's not here right now, and I don't like to talk when he's someone absent. I cannot, however, have made a definite statement at 12 noon, as soon as the meeting on this matter started, that there should be statements by the Government representative, Mr Janakopoulos, from yesterday and that the government should be indicted because he did not take up his position in Mr Katsiki's statements. All things have a limit. And we are not indifferent to false accusations, slander or falsification of reality, just to tell Parliament something at the expense of the government. I hope the party's parliamentary representative understood it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u502	Minister, may I have an announcement?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u503	Of course, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u504	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, thirty-nine students and students and five educational attendants from the 3rd and 5th Municipal School of Artas. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u505	Also, the Potami Parliamentary spokesman was inspired - rightly, in my opinion - to tell us about his party's finances that they are settled and that they have a surplus. Did he address this point to the government? Because at least SYRIZA so far is one of those parties that are absolutely consistent with their obligations, contrary to PASOK and the New Democracy, which currently have loans of tens of millions of unpaid. The question, however, to Potami as a party is: Do they know that they are cooperating today with a party, which has been in debt to the banks, which has created in an unacceptable way,'supporting' the state grant, and that, through the process of unification and extradition of new VAT, these loans will remain unfulfilled and that this fact makes them accomplices? Let us give an answer to what is going to happen with the loans that PASOK had received, now that PASOK and PASOK have set up a new body. We will expect them here in the House to listen, and if they have something to tell us about both the bags of Tsukatos and the hatreds that were taken from SIEMENS and PASOK and the New Democracy, namely the confessed ones. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, to make a reference to the bill, I would like to say that what has been said in prison is absolutely unfounded. There was no flogging. There was a statement from the Ministry of Justice, which denied it, there were several bills in the yellow press.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u506	What about the press releases? Is that how you made it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u507	Can't you just stop? The above was completely unfounded and the alleged victim himself disproved! But in order for there to be no question, the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Justice of the European Union has been ordered to clarify the situation completely. That there are certain incidents going to happen in prison, ladies and gentlemen. But the question is that these should be individual and not often. Because some of those who are imprisoned do not want to understand that there is a law and that there is a strict procedure in prisons. They think they can keep wrong. There, then, I would like to tell you that in all cases where a prosecutor has been identified, the perpetrators have been brought to disciplinary proceedings and the disciplinary proceedings have already been initiated. Ladies and gentlemen, if we are discussing the ratification of the Istanbul Convention today, it is because there have been long-standing struggles - over a century - of the women's movement. And I would like to say that the women's movement in Greece took breath and strength in the years after the Transmigration, because then it was found in this great wave of radicalisation of Greek society and within the climate of liberation of ideas and people at that time, it developed and strengthened. However, the feminist movement at that time was cross-checked with the Left and with that part of the Left, the renewing communist Left, the Interior and the ECON of King Ferraeus, which had integrated in their protagonists and in their theoretical arsenal all those searches and processes of Western Marxism, which was gigantic after May 1968 throughout Europe, and which in his analysis said that modern capitalism was not only permeated by the main contrast of capital - labour, but also by individual contradictions, on which the ecological movement, the women's movement, the youth movement and the rights movement were created. That is why the party of communist renewal, the Interior JRC, was able to walk along with the social criticism movements, help them as much as it could in their development, and that is why there were those positive results for the Feminist movement from the first period after post-Civilisation. However, ladies and gentlemen, today we are not only talking about violence against women. We are generally discussing domestic violence. And I would like to stress something that has been wronged in today's debate. If the woman is once unprotected, the child who falls victim to violence is 100 times unprotected. That is why today, from the Step of the National Representation, I appeal to nurses, teachers and teachers, teachers and teachers to become the protection shield for children, not only to inform them of their rights but also to denounce violent behaviour at the expense of children. Because you know very well, ladies and gentlemen, that children are victims of 'host-girl' parents - either father or mother, many times - and that behaviour of parents has devastating effects on children's lives. There are engravements because of this behavior that cannot be remedied until the end of a man's life. And right here is the great responsibility of society and all public and state officials. You do not know very well from the last instances that there have been even child homicides from both parents, and these are serious issues that we need to bear in mind and to deal with. Ladies and gentlemen, no bills and no laws solve social problems in themselves. However, I am deeply honoured today to recommend to the Greek Parliament this bill, because it sets the foundations for dealing with a basic pathogen that has been afflicting both women and children all these years and, indeed, many times these incidents occurred at the next door. There is now the legislative arsenal of their arsenal, but something else more important: This law before us also plays a pedagogical role for society, and perhaps this is Parliament's biggest offer, the vote on these provisions today in plenary. Ladies and gentlemen, I have always considered the debate in plenary to be a continuation of the discussions in committee. I answered in detail all matters relating to the other provisions of the Ministry of Justice. I don't really have to tell you anything more today. A reintroduction, however, of certain claims for provisions contained in the draft law, I would say they are problematic. I have also made it clear to the committee that we are not changing any provisions of the existing legislative framework concerning the choice of prosecutors and the timing of term of office. We're not changing anything, no more that the government is not making it, but the Supreme Judicial Council. All we do with this provision is to strengthen the Greek prosecutors and the Greek presence in EUROJUST, because I tell you that we are the only country with the one-faced staff of this service. All other countries had an expanded capacity both by prosecutors and by other state officials. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, it is challenging for the government to try to strengthen with experts the Corruption Prosecutor, a provision that moves to the international community - it is neither for two years nor for five years - and to report that here we want to do a favour for the Deputy Minister of Justice. I don't know what else we're gonna hear in this Chamber!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u508	Minister, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u509	I shall conclude with that, Mr President. Do we not want the services, the prosecution authorities with the appropriate staff to be managed? I have pointed out to you that with regard to consensus divorces, which have been mentioned, in consultation with the Bar Association, we have identified the lawyer's minimum remuneration at the level that was and before the courts, and we have abolished the paper-paper fee, precisely so that there is no further cost for the citizens, when they come to the consensual divorces before the notary. It is an absolutely positive provision for citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, I have nothing more to say. I think, however, that it is unfair for a debate and a attitude of the parties, which will also be reflected in the vote, which is supportive and positive for the legislative initiative taken by the government, to be exhausted to categories of minor importance, to categories which have no basis and which are not based on the provisions of the law. I think it is good for the political system, for our democracy, to disagree and disagree strongly on the issues that are fundamentally disagreed, but, when we agree, there is no reason to appear in this way before the Greek people. It is a disappointment that some of them give the Greek people with this attitude and it is not the time for frustration. Greece is entering an optimism path for both the political system and the Greek people themselves, and this is slowly perceived. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u510	Mr. George Pallis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u511	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister has closed down, saying he has nothing more to say. After half an hour of the minister's place, I guess I have less to say than I had to say before. In the bill we are debating today, the most important part is the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and domestic violence, the well-known Istanbul Convention. First of all, it is very important, because the Convention itself is a very important step in guaranteeing the rights of women that it recognises, brings to light and tries to highlight and suppress the special forms of violence and oppression that women are suffering precisely because of their gender. Then it is important, because, recognizing gender primarily as a concept of socialism, it stands against both deep-rooted prejudices, which we often call "traditional values"... Mrs. Antonio, don't go. Let someone remain here to represent the Civic Opposition in plenary.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u512	So, we don't have any need? That's how much you want me here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u513	Maybe a colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u514	Mr. Pallie, continue the speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u515	...as in racial roles and behaviors that often justify or cover up crimes. Thirdly, because it includes a number of practices and practices that have so far been ignored or justified, such as incitement to genital mutilation or persistent monitoring - discomfort, known as stalling. Furthermore, because it also emphasises the prevention of violence, the protection of victims and the persecution and reform of the perpetrators, where possible, by proposing a series of innovative interventions at the level of legislation, institutions and practices. But that's not all. First of all, it is important that this government brings the convention to the House, because it seems that the parties that constituted the previous governments may naturally agree with its ratification, but from the outset it seems that they were not in their priorities. So it may not be a terrible initiative by the current government to ratify the contract, but it is a fact that this government brings it when the former have referred it to the Greek bells. She's not my colleague from the Qualified Opposition here. I would like the former Ministers of Justice, who are officials, MPs from the Staff Regulations and during the committees, but also today not to go around Parliament's corridors, to be here in the Chamber and to explain why they did not bring them, because the convention, as we were asked to vote on, was not even brought to the House. We've seen a lot of sanctions standing for years. That's the same thing they intended. Unfortunately, I'm thinking they had an opinion why they didn't bring her in. And the view is in these traditional values. They don't want to touch traditional values of Greek society, conservativeism, what some people say in the elections: "I have a hundred votes to give you" in our democracy. So it's an important bill, the government brings it. It is important that the bill, because it is a dilemma of a larger puzzle, of the judiciary puzzle it designs, that the government, by extending the cohabitation pact, by recognizing a gender, with the upcoming bill of the Ministry of the Interior on gender equality, which also covers other issues that the convention does not include, such as labour. Finally, it is important that it comes to support and strengthen a major, multifaceted work carried out by the Secretariat-General of Equality, the EMI and other services and structures. In the one-two minutes that I have left, Mr President, to close earlier, I would like to refer to the amendments to the amendment by the Ministry of Interior on citizenship issues. We're not satisfied. Those children who have been growing around us for years, the people who have had the institutional memory of the state and the civil servants have never made sure that they do not have all those necessary documents so that they can at some point safeguard their legitimate rights, with the laws that were in place, not only opened a door two years ago, we are now coming to simplify, settle procedures. It's their right. They're the kids who kept the schools open in the province, and we all know that. They are their parents who, with their fighting, with the "black" many times - and that is why some of them do not have the right - supported Greece at times when some ate with golden spoons. Finally, Minister, you are absolutely right here. We cannot, on the one hand, be accused of bringing a bill that amends the law, so that the ratification becomes a reality, because that is what we are doing on the substance, to blame us for the correct legislation on it and, at the same time, to bring amendments that are positive. You have referred to two positive amendments. I would like you to refer to the other two amendments tabled by the Communist Party, 1520 and 1521. I, too, understand - and my colleague, Mr Philis, says - that he is not here, but I would like to see a position on how and how much they can be discussed. I think that it is in a positive direction, and this communication, and with the opposition, should begin on this basis, in substance, rather than in a sterile confrontation. Thank you very much. I think the Minister has covered us well enough before colleagues are finished.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u516	Thank you, Mr. Palley, and for the time economy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u517	Will the seconds become later, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u518	Yes, Mrs. Kefalidou. There are still six speakers left, and then there will be the seconds of the speakers and rapporteurs. Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u519	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the fact that I think the Minister has closed the debate, I think it is important in the Minutes of this House and in the history of the future, that the voice of the Members, even of those few, of the Greek Parliament, should be heard and recorded on such an important subject. We have witnessed since the morning a criticism of the Minister who is tabling the bill from Acoustic Opposition and the rest of the Opposition, that the bill contains many other provisions and does not allow Parliament to concentrate on this flagship contract. And yet, not only was the number of MPs declared by the other parties very little, but also those declared by the Qualified Anti-Civilization and spoke, especially males, especially males, and indeed first-class officials from the Anti-Civilization Officer, not at all mentioned in the bill, the convention. They dealt with the masculine issues, national issues, what only men have to deal with, not women. As we have seen, as we have seen, women dealing with masculine, such issues are subjected to severe, extreme criticism, until they disappear, to political and personal characterisation, in order not to speak, not to intervene in these well-structured roles. For these very reasons, however, we should also have men in such a convention, which is very important, and I would say the reasons, to take a position, to record this position. I say about those in the future who will seek to see what this House has done in the 21st century on such a major issue. Why is it a big deal? Is this all about women? Is this all about violence against women, racial violence? It's about democracy. Especially at a borderline for Europe and the world as a whole, where powers want to re-establish the societies of white, male and strong, such a bill comes not only to remind but to reorient the values of society, to remind, but also to discipline and enforce that the rules of democracy start from the first level, that of the family, to the whole of public life. How do I read the Istanbul Convention and the adaptation of the National Law, our own, according to the bill, under the terms of the Convention? The family door doesn't close a fortress, where there's a leader. It opens this door to public life. Because, if the child is not disciplined by the nucleus, which is the family, to what it means democracy, that violence is not tolerated in democracy, that there are no lower and higher by sex, because of religion, because of race, because of color, because of sexual orientation, etc., he will never know, whatever laws may pass. The Istanbul Convention at the time it comes - and all the Members of Parliament could conspire to take the floor - is very important, because we have seen the phenomenon of violence here in Parliament and we have seen it both from hierarchs and from journalists and from people of all kinds, every profession against people who are considered to be dominate. It is very important that in the contract the term sex includes social content rather than biological content. So it also concerns men, it also concerns children, it concerns homosexuals, transients. It is about anyone or whatever is thought to have specific roles in society. Another reason why, for me, there should be a serious and important debate and controversy - because this is democracy - is that the Istanbul Convention provides for the GREVIO mechanism, which also involves the national parliaments. What does our Parliament think? What is his viewpoint and how should he get involved there? We didn't hear any of this. I'm afraid no one read the contract. It's just nice for women to say something heroic, that it's symbolic and important and that this case is over. So it has not been read, because there should be a substantial debate here. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You'll give me two minutes, please. I take them from my colleague who spoke before, if I may.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u520	No, that's the time that Mr. Palley was talking about. You don't deserve him, Mrs. Anagnostopoulos. Keep going, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u521	Thank you, Mr President. I'm sorry, I didn't get out of the way, I just said it about humor. I wanted to say that democracy is tolerable, it is broad, it is inclusive, but it also works exemplary, preventive, first and foremost, and disciplinary. The inclusion and now referred to as criminal offences that did not concern the state - the state closed its eyes - here in this bill is very important. From continued follow-up behaviour to being lawful to violence in the name of honor or religion or customs. No one is legalised above democracy and its rules, whether religion or anything, such as customs, etc. It is very important to lay down a provision in a multicultural society on the issue of female genital mutilation. And here I would like, Minister, to say whether this provision should be extended to children who are born innersex and who are undergoing surgical intervention, whether this according to the United Nations is amputation and brutal abuse of a child's body. I would have to say a lot, but what I would also like to say and end is that the crisis creates slots in a society to be more prosperous to speech and rhetoric, which is about masculineness, which is about a returning society to roles that democracy does not tolerate. In this respect, the bill is very important.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u522	Mrs Anagnostopoulou, you have exhausted the time you requested as a loan from Mr. Pallis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u523	Yes, Mr. President, I'm ending. I'll just say one sentence. However, I would say that it is necessary for the Greek Government and, by virtue of the competence of the ministries, for them to take initiatives in the European Union to promote policies resulting from the Convention. Because they are good, very well, all this, but, to be implemented, they need money, they need a social state. Democracy without a social state cannot exist. State allowances, structures and all that requires money. Democracy, its enlargement and its enlargement require an expansion of the social state in any case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u524	Obviously, following Mrs Anagnostopoulou's proposal to use the two-and-a-half minute, which Mr Pallis gave us, we have to cut down now. Mr Papaliou George has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u525	We'll see. I shall also be brief because a lot has been said throughout the debate. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to make two comments on what has been said in today's debate by the Members of the House of Commons. There is no doubt that legislation by means of amendments is not the best way. Everyone recognizes it, we all recognize it. But social, economic and political life runs rapidly. The time-consuming legislative procedures, the time-consuming procedures of Parliament are often not enough. Thus, modern needs of social, economic and political life allow or rather impose the need for immediate, urgent legislative coverage on matters that need urgent attention. Because, I repeat, life doesn't wait. Perhaps in this context some specific provisions of Parliament's Rules of Procedure should be seen and reviewed, we should discuss them and we should all agree. A second comment concerns attempting to create impressions from Members of the House. Yellow media reports are constantly invoked and are well-known - unknown websites, which have been untrue many times, not to say false, hypothetical and contradictory content. And that is what is happening, ladies and gentlemen, in the absence of arguments. In addition, MEPs call on the government to respond even to issues which have already been answered several times. What can anyone say? Let me now come to the core of the bill on the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combat of Violence against Women and domestic violence. Significant steps have been taken from our country to eliminate serious human rights violations involving violence against women and domestic violence. With this bill, which includes the Istanbul Convention, the aim of zero tolerance of such incidents of violence is to provide guarantees of greater security for the weak aspects of society, particularly for women and children. The contract arrangements start with the assumption that social gender is the basis for developing harmful, aggressive and violent behaviours that weaken the social performance of the victims, affect their personality and often cause psychosomatic damage, even death. The contract includes provisions for adjusting the national legal order to its provisions. After the Convention has been ratified by the National Parliament, the necessary legislative measures must be taken to ensure that its content is part of national law. From its application, we will be judged. This will ensure that the state takes the necessary prevention measures, work to strengthen the position of women and promote equality. In the context of efforts to change attitudes and behaviours to prevent violence, to protect victims and to prosecute offenders are the cornerstones of the convention. The Convention sends a message to promote equality between men and women, because violence against women perpetrated by a culture of tolerance, refusal, above all silence and silence, but also fear, is deeply rooted in inequality between women and men within society. The Convention brings about a significant positive social change, as for the first time the states cooperate and commit themselves to defending the right of citizens, especially women, to live without violence in private and public life. The structural nature of violence against women is recognised as gender-based violence and it appears that racial violence is based on stereotypes, discrimination and inequality and leads to women being in a lower position than men. Any form of violence against women and recognised de facto and de jure equality between women and men is condemned. States are invited to implement practical policies to promote equal participation of women in education, work and public life in order to eliminate the conditions which make women and children vulnerable to violence. Ladies and gentlemen, the contract is in progress in a context that contains specific parameters. First of all, this is the first international treaty which defines the term 'leaf'. It is accepted that women and men have not just biological characteristics, female or male, but that there is also a socially structured category, which gives women and men specific roles and behaviours. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Violence against women is recognised as a violation of human rights and a form of discrimination. Failure to take appropriate measures by States to deal with this kind of violence also affects the responsibility of those States. New criminal offences, such as forced marriage, are being introduced as a goal of human trafficking, persistent conduct of surveillance or persecution, stalling, forced abortion and forced sterilization. States must establish these new major offences, which were not in their legal system. Each relevant state body and each government agency are invited to mobilise, with a view to coordinated fight against violence against women and domestic violence. On this basis, the various bodies should not act individually, but should cooperate in order to form cooperation protocols.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u526	Mr. Papaliou, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u527	I shall conclude in a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u528	You've already taken a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u529	And one final conclusion: The improvements made by this bill are to ensure more effective implementation of national legislation to combat violence against women and domestic violence, criminalisation of acts, the abolition of anachronistic provisions and the stricter treatment of the perpetrator of violence against women, particularly domestic violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u530	Mr Antonios Syrigos has the floor from SYRIZA. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u531	Mr President, accept that what I shall say first is a form of self-sarcasm. I feel like a oxen voice in the desert. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the bill under discussion has been written and so much has been said that any reference to it as a whole or in individual articles will be regarded as a repetition. So I am content with my brief speech simply by emphasizing its importance in our legal order, to make certain points, common topics, but usually not to be employed, considered to be self-evident. Let's see them, believing they have some value, because we usually ignore them. Article 1 refers to Article 28(1) of the Constitution in force, by conferring on the contract that is ratified by over-legislative power, or by making it ‘an integral part of the domestic Greek law and prevailing from any other law which is contrary to it’. I reiterated the constitutional provision. In addition, this practically facilitates its predictions and application by the administration and the courts, preventing any misguided or narrow-minded interpretation. Article 1 itself makes the original text, printed English or French, authentic for its interpretation, if there is a dimension or a doubt as to the English translation or wording. This is not a stranger, nor is it a new and paradox, if we remember, for example, the commercial law, transposing from the French Commercial Code, published French and Greek in the 'Government Newspaper', in the original text of which the courts were ordered to diversely or unquestionably to the Greek translation. Article 5 expresses a clear reservation from Greece, which must also be considered and dispersed. The explanatory statement does not provide any further analysis. For this reason, it should be recognised with particular diligence, as well as Article 78(2) of the Convention setting out the manner and procedure for reservation and Article 44e(1) and (3) and (4). Then we will have a full picture of the whole contract. Furthermore, Article 8 extends, even as an alternative, the powers of the Ministry of Justice and it establishes its obligation to inform the General Secretariat of the Council of the European Union of the competent authorities referred to in Article 9, i.e. its responsibilities are increased, since it does not mean, if not as an alternative, the enlargement of responsibilities without maximising liability, which is not meant as an subsidiary, that is to say, complete and immediate. In addition, the Ministry of Justice may keep relevant statistics. Here, too, we have an additional responsibility, since it is so serious that the subject of statistics is so serious that everyone is rushing to comply with them, even though they are 'possible' by law. Article 12, which deals with the recognition and enforcement of decisions, is also a critical article in order to eliminate the usual, that is, responsible and unnecessarily delays. Furthermore, the inconsistent wording of Article 23 shows that bilateral or multilateral agreements or arrangements in our country and other Member States are only valid if they contribute to simplifying or facilitating this law. That is, if they conflict or do not serve that purpose, they are no longer valid. Those few things I had to say, which I think they're probably useful. Finally, I would remind you of something that I often refer to and you have all referred to. Legislation is a good start. It also creates a relevant beneficial culture many times, as in this respect. However, the implementation of the laws and the success of the proposed arrangements is a direct function of changing attitudes, which can only be satisfactorily salved thanks to culture and education. That is where every social and political effort must be aimed. Violence as a reasonable size, unfortunately produced within society, can only be dealt with in a reasonable manner, such as education or education. This is so big and deep that it cannot be resolved at a meeting, such as this one, with a specific subject. It is, however, a step in the way that we need to do. In any case, voices do not benefit, but rather noise is done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u532	Mrs. Lebanese Zoe from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u533	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek society has undoubtedly made progress in dealing with violence against women and domestic violence. The majority of women today live in better conditions and with more rights. We want to believe that violence against women and domestic violence are falling, despite the fact that the number of incidents is increasing. Our country has gradually formed a framework for supporting women victims of violence and victims of domestic violence. The state and society have invested in better information, development of support structures, awareness raising, the encouragement of victims to speak, protect, and react. The fact that today the situation is better with regard to the legislative framework, public opinion, removal from stereotypes of the past against women does not allow for reassurance. Violence against women, violence against children, racism, violence in the workplace are still there. The economic and social crisis that has been under way for eight years now is not an excuse for the phenomena of violence revealed or revealed. Invoking the economic or other difficulties experienced by individual or family is not the cause, it is a pretext. At the same time, it is also a cause for reflection. It turns out that, despite the progress that has been made, an important part of our society has not accepted equality, every form of violence has not been seen as a problem. This is a collective problem, even if it concerns a minority. Equality has not been established either in the domestic environment or in the professional environment. Unfortunately, it has not been established in all women either. There are still women today who claim that the victim should not speak and ruin his home and family. Today's bill comes to adopt the Europe Convention by means of a framework law to tackle violence against women and domestic violence, to adapt it to Greek legislation, that is, to legislate again on self-evident grounds. The draft law sets out a number of arrangements to prevent acts of violence against women and children. It recognises new forms of violence. Of course, it modernises or eliminates legal provisions of the past, such as the justification for the use of force on the basis of the insult of the family price. The bill provides for the punishment of modern phenomena of violence and harassment, such as persistent pursuit or follow-up behaviour. Recognises the case of electronic harassment. The contents and substance of the restrictive conditions are more stringent in order to have real content. It provides for sanctions for those who, although psychiatric treatment is imposed, ignore it. The protection of minors, especially victims of sexual crime, is improved by the lifting of the provision of non-consequent marriages, which is what our people say: "To burn you, Giannis, to lure you oil". The main change that comes today with this draft law is the state's most active and most important direct contribution to victims, in terms of removing them from the abuse environment, supporting their lives, their compensation and the provision of care and care measures. It is clear that the integration of this convention into national law is progress. It is not just a question of fulfilling a formal obligation of the country vis-à-vis the partners, as the opposition wants to tell us. This is an obligation to Greek first society, but above all to human dignity. The condemnation of violence from wherever it comes and the protection of victims of violence cannot remain in words, but be accompanied by acts such as improving the legislative framework and covering any gaps. The current government has shown in practice that it is not confined to the regulation of the issues of topicality but modernises, when necessary, rigorously, when the provisions of the past are no longer in line with a modern society. Important issues relating to crimes against the Greek State have remained unavoidable because of the gaps in the European Union, for example, with regard to cooperation in combating corruption, which is currently constantly in the news and is revealed that it has been timely. They almost touch the whole public sphere, and of course they are responsible for our current economic situation, at least. We do not need to repeat the need to deepen cooperation, to multiply transparency. We need to emphasise once again the paradox of an incomplete Union, which gradually strengthens destructive ideologies of the past. Europe, the Member States of the European Union, need more democracy. The part of democracy is justice. The deepening of cooperation, the exchange of critical information could possibly have been simplified and supported for years. We do not need to look for the reasons of lateness in this direction or the reasons why it was not considered urgent for the technocrats of the European headquarters. Today's bill gives solutions to some operational problems that have been identified in practice. We must consider the deficits in justice, both in our country and in the whole of Europe. We have to discuss and agree on the changes that can be made in order to restore the sense of law, to ensure by every appropriate means that Europe develops into a federation of law. It's not today! If it were, it would make it possible, for example, for the Christophobics of the 'SIEMENS' case to be judged, it would enable the authorities of our country to easily have access to bank accounts for money or tax evasion, to have developed a European common framework of protected witnesses. It is still a difficult and long way to go as a European society. One more step towards self-evident. Each step brings us closer to democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u534	Mrs Gara Anastasia has the floor from SYRIZA. After Mrs Gara, two other speakers will follow and the list will be closed. We will continue with the secondaryities of special speakers and rapporteurs. Here, Mrs. Gara, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u535	Thank you very much, Mr President. I think it is a particularly important day in the Greek Parliament today, a day of honor for all these struggles, the great and the daily, because in a patriarchal and conservative society a woman's life is a daily struggle and nothing is self-evident. It is particularly important, therefore, not only because the subject of today's sitting, but it is also extremely important, because we are also called on to legislate on an institutional framework for the defence and armoring of fundamental human rights, but also for the defence of weak members of our society, women and men. The harmonization of the Istanbul Convention with our National Law is an act that women, in particular, and those who are aware of violence, have long awaited. This framework, on the one hand, strengthens the hosting structures of victims or blackmailed women and children, strengthens the level of prevention and treatment of violence, and, on the other, provides for the abolition of anachronistic provisions or practices of customary law, which are now characterised as appalling crimes such as genital mutilation. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me not to go into detail with the provisions of the bill. After all, most of them have been reported. However, I will be allowed a narrative and a few thoughts. It was November 25th, global day for the eradication of violence against women and I participated in an event held by the Advisory Centre for Women's Violence Violence Victims in Alexandroupolis, an event for information, an awareness-raising event for all of us. The title of the event: "The word you do not say." Attribute title. Behind this phrase, an entire world is hiding. Differences, pathogens, dominance relationships, patriarchal perceptions, fear, lack of dignity, lack of education and, above all, lack of structures. It is an entire world, which is unfortunately hiding under the carpet, which is breaking behind closed doors, a world that we know very much, but most of us are silent. The word you're not saying, the word violence, so little, so tough. So the question to which we have to answer is why does it not say the word, why is it silent? On the other hand, however, there is a more difficult question: why is violence being persecuted? Action at the level of social education and education is necessary and immediately necessary. There is a need for the suffering of education in respect of itself and the others, dignity, confidence and, above all, the concept of equality. I will not go any further on this. In the first question, however, in the word we are not saying, institutional intervention is required to be crucial and direct from the state. Initially, the information and awareness of victims and society as a whole, the creation of adequate support structures for victims of violence. It is necessary to increase support and hospitality structures in all regions of the country. Structures staffed with skilled workers are needed. You know, a poor woman, even if she goes over the stereotypes of the press "to listen to your husband", "what will people say?", even if she breaks fear, even if she picks up all the power she has left and decides to say this word either she doesn't know where to address or accepts a bad approach to first contact by people, who don't know how to handle these issues. And that is another phenomenon of abuse in these women. Ladies and gentlemen, by tabling this draft law on ratification of the Istanbul Convention, seven years after its signature, the Greek Government has once again demonstrated its commitment to promoting and protecting human rights for all citizens. In joining the Istanbul Convention with this bill, we are responding to several of the issues I mentioned before and the questions raised. Basically, we lay the foundation of support, prevention and treatment for all those people, vulnerable to all forms of violence. The convention focuses on four main themes: prevention, protection, prosecution and monitoring. I would like to ask you, Mr President, if you will allow me to speak on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and We meet here in the Greek Parliament. We can all describe daily stories. We meet them in most workplaces, families, everyday simple conversations and gestures on the road. They reproduce daily sovereign standards and stereotypes from the media. Recent surveys and data indicate tragic figures. One in three women in the European Union have suffered physical or sexual violence since the age of 15. There are many other tragic figures that I will not mention. That's a big step today. Big deal of work we have to do. Our responsibility for implementing this, as a government, as parliamentarians, as modern and progressive members of this society, which I think should at some point care about the other. So by recording women's voices - and I close - we all hear and all: I don't want to be afraid. I don't want to go around the street and feel strong. I want to be free. I don't want to claim my status as a woman. I want to have an equal position and attitude as a woman. I don't want to get over your sexist remarks. I want you to respect me and recognize me. I don't want to take it. I don't want to endure. I want to live with dignity. And finally, I don't want to hide the word. I don't want you to convince me to say the word. I want to delete this word. If these are not self-evident today, we must teach them, defend them, and the state must directly have the first and dominant role in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u536	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-one students and students and four educational attendants from the 2nd Municipal School of Rhodes. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs. Kafantaris has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u537	Thank you, Mr President. Historical day for the Greek Parliament, a significant victory for the feminist movement and in our country at the moment when we accept and vote today the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combat of Violence against Women and domestic violence, signed in Istanbul in May 2011. We accept today, in practice, a chronic demand for the feminist feminist movement. This draft law promotes and safeguards the fight against racial violence and racial discrimination and guarantees the essential gender equality. When we talk of violence, of course, we mean all the forms that she can take, physical, psychological, sexual, verbal, etc. The convention recognises that social gender is the basis for developing violent and aggressive behaviour with a frequent result of psychosomatic damage or even death of victims. The Convention aims to harmonise national legislation and also to develop administrative practices aimed at preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence in order to protect victims in all the member states of the Council. The main feature of this contract is the emphasis placed on prevention. It is planned to train professionals for the care of the victims, treatment programmes for the perpetrators, information actions and others. Protection of women against all forms of violence, criminal prosecution and the elimination of violence against women, criminal prosecution and the elimination of domestic violence, combating discrimination are included in the main objectives of the Convention. A comprehensive framework of measures, as well as policies, is needed to protect victims. The States are obliged to strengthen the care of victims and to proceed with criminalisation of behaviour that previously did not form part of criminal offences. A characteristic example here is coercive marriage and persistent unseen surveillance or pursuit - the well-known stalking - phenomena now known to be criminalised. Great innovation in this Convention is the establishment of a monitoring mechanism for its implementation by the Contracting Parties. Under this mechanism an independent body, GREVIO, set up by technocrats, is acting in order to prepare reports on the measures taken by each party to the Convention to ensure that its conditions are respected. International cooperation is therefore an important factor in the fulfilment of the Convention and in the realization of all the objectives envisaged. However, the fact is that there has also been great progress since the struggles of the women's movement, which last century culminated in most of the issues relating to women. However, I have to say that the economic crisis, the global economic crisis, unfortunately, has brought back some conquests of the 20th-century female movement to today are demands of the feminist movement for the 21st century. Here I would like to say a number of issues that have retreated in terms of both European values in relation to women and the right to her body. Here I would like to say the struggles that European women, the women's movement, either in Spain or in Poland some years ago, precisely about the right to their bodies through the abortion ban that had been proposed to these countries. In modern societies, however progressive though they are, equality does not exist in fact. There are still inequalities, discrimination and, of course, women's gender is what is most affected. Very importantly, a comprehensive network of structures and services is planned to provide support to victims at both legal, advisory and psychological level. Particularly important is the extension of the scope of domestic violence at the level of partners. However, in addition to the policies and measures provided for in the current bill and which can be implemented, in addition to the State's care to combat violence against women we are debating today, it is necessary to understand that society itself must contribute to this effort. It is time to sideline conservative, social and cultural stereotypes, to make it absolutely clear to everyone that we are all people equal in all areas of our lives. No one outweighs the other and no one has come to this world to be exploited. The Istanbul Convention also touches on this point, stating that the parties will take the necessary measures to eliminate prejudices, customs, traditions and various practices established in concepts favouring women at a disadvantage vis-à-vis men and standards that enhance inequality. This also provides for the introduction to detailed training courses, adapted to and based on the cognitive ability of all ages, in order to promote equality between men and women, mutual respect, non-stereotype roles, etc. The field of education, I'd say, since the First grade, is very important. Victims now have the right to claim compensation from the perpetrators, while for victims with serious physical damage state compensation will be granted to the extent that this damage is not covered by other sources, as well as legal aid, interpretation, etc. The Istanbul Convention also contains provisions concerning women - refugees, such as the suspension of expulsion to victims of racial violence and the possibility of residence, asylum and non-refoulement. In addition, there is provision for interpretation in legal procedures and for relevant information in all languages. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the current draft law once again demonstrates in practice the concern and interest of this Government in respect of human rights, the fight against discrimination and the effective defence of equality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u538	Mr. Georgios Psychogios from SYRIZA has the floor. He's the last speaker on the list. After Mr. Psychogios, we will enter the process of the seconds of the rapporteurs and specialist speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u539	Thank you, Mr President. I think most of them have been said, but as you said, Minister, and Parliament and the law have a pedagogical character, so it is important to highlight and repeat them in order to understand them. There is therefore a major agreement, known as the Istanbul Convention, which is the most important integrated and specific international text before the Greek Parliament concerning the fight against violence against women. This is a Council of Europe Convention, the top perhaps human rights organization in the world, which we, as parliamentarians, are members of its parliamentary assembly and have the opportunity to see these issues from within and to know the importance and gravity of this text. We must also be aware of the fact that we have suffered a very great deal of criticism of the delay in the ratification of this convention, with what this implies for the image of the country. I would like to begin by asking a rhetoric question, raised by other speakers and speakers. Is it self-evident that the fight against racial or domestic violence is envisaged in modern democracies and in an orderly state? It would be easy to answer 'yes'. Unfortunately, however, the figures we have from the European Union and others show exactly the opposite. I would also like to focus on the fact that the Leftist Government is coming in this context to bring in a comprehensive bill, demonstrating the necessary and necessary political will which the previous governments did not have - and this was heard by the bodies in the committees - in order to meet a proper social demand. The Convention also follows on from a very good preparation, as the Ministry of Justice, the General Secretariat of Human Rights, the General Secretariat of Equality and the JRC have chosen not only to bring it to ratification but to draw up a comprehensive draft law, which has been put in consultation with the relevant views. Of course, it is not only a ratification, but there is also an amendment to the provisions of the Criminal Code for the easier and more immediate application of these provisions. So why is this bill so important? Because quite simply domestic and racial violence is right next to us and is right in front of us. A lot of people choose to close their eyes to it. But reality is shocking. In the Europe of twenty-eight, as has already been said, one in three women over fifteen years of age has fallen victim to violence, precisely because they are women. With these sad facts, the European Union has chosen to accede as an international organisation itself to the Istanbul Convention, in order to bring the Member States and the Member States before their responsibilities and to show the importance that this convention has. The bill, therefore, is crucial, as it comes to creating an integrated framework for protection in a number of criminal offences, firstly, in domestic violence, physical, sexual, psychological, economic - and this is extended by women to minors, to men and, of course, to partners belonging to the LGBTK community, namely social gender in the sense and the bill that we have recently voted on - secondly, constant harassment, to'stalking', thirdly, to sexual violence, including rape, fourthly, to the mutilation of women's genitals, fifthly, to forced abortion and sterilization, as well as to forced marriage. Of course, measures are also being promoted to protect and support victims with legal, medical and psychological support services, shelters and housing with financial assistance, education, training or integration into the labour market, SOS telephone lines, advisory units, which still have a long way to go, until we have to establish how to serve them properly and to operate in the logic of the contract. It is also of major importance that the contract focuses on prevention, and of course it also has a monitoring mechanism, the so-called GREVIO. On this point I would also like to refer to another important amendment from the Ministry of the Interior, which was tabled by this bill. It has been one of the priorities of SYRIZA since 2015 in relation to migration policy and integration policies. Let me not forget that the Istanbul Convention also covers refugees and immigrants, who are victims of domestic violence or racial violence and who cannot be re-processed and who are also beneficiaries of political asylum. So, coming back to the amendment from the Ministry of Interior, I would like to stress its importance, as the SYRIZA Government brought Law 4332/2015 on the nationality of children - second generation migrants. It is a law that has brought to the surface a power of the country that was on the sidelines. And now comes the Special Secretariat for Citizenship to remove bureaucratic difficulties, to reduce waiting times and, above all, to make the system of naturalisation simpler, fair and transparent. In this amendment, therefore, there is for the first time the possibility of obtaining Greek citizenship after 12 years of legal residence in the country, regardless of the type of distribution licence, except for temporary licences. It is an important initiative that adapts the legislative framework so that people who have spent about half their lives in Greece and have followed legal procedures to be able to apply for citizenship. To conclude, I would like to emphasise once again that today will pass in history as the day for the adoption and ratification of the Istanbul Convention by the Greek Parliament. It is another piece of legislation in a long list of human rights bills brought by this government, which we understand as a part of the overall approach to inequality and human liberation. In other words, we believe that the distinction to be made is not only between capital and work, but also between, as the Minister said and other issues, which create a better framework. We know very well that this bill does not solve the problem definitively and that it does not cover everything. And we know that struggles and claims should continue to be brought to an end, to stereotypes, to limit and eliminate inequalities, which fuel extreme right and fascism in Greece and Europe. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. Of course, we know that we also need to be vigilant every day in order to observe this law. In closing my speech, therefore, while we are used to talking about some of the poems or words of poets, let us say, literary or various old politicians, I shall use the words of a modern woman, who has been associated with the feminist and labour movement, representing SYRIZA in the European Parliament, Constantine Kuneva, at a very recent event on racial violence. It says - and I close with it - that: 'Men and women are different to complement each other, not to compete. Our hands are made to work, to moan, to hug, not to strike. Our hands are designed to propose and assist." Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u540	So we're going on with the seconds of the rapporteurs and the special speakers. I will give the floor to Mrs Stavoulis and then to Mrs Antoniou. Here you go, Mrs. Stuboulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u541	Thank you, Mr President. I will not be tempted to talk to the Turkish pilots. It's over. I have to deal with a number of issues raised by speakers and speakers of the Opposition, both for the Convention and for the other provisions and amendments. It was not much heard that Law 3500/2006 had already dealt with the matter. Law 3500/2006 is suffering from a structural defect. It proclaims and prioritises not the rights and protection of the victim, but the protection of the cohesion of the family, of the particular dysfunctional and malicious family. From there, therefore, its defects and distortions, such as those observed in the process of mediation and abuse by the perpetrators and which is somehow trying to correct the current legislation in one of his articles. We have heard various theories about the four-year contract burying from the governments of 2011-2015 except for the truth. The electoral clientele of these parties could not withstand the provisions that protect women refugees and immigrants or those which protect members of gay couples with or without a cohabitation agreement. These parties were not able to conflict with the most barbaric parts of this clientele, but were not even interfering with their consciences with the principles of equality and non-discrimination. Of course, it is good that the SOS Line and the advisory and hosting structures for women - victims of violence have started to be made since 2011, with the intervention of the then Secretary-General of Equality, a true feminist and have been saved by the stress that threatened them with the end of the European funding programme, with enormous efforts by the current Secretary-General of Equality and, of course, the whole of the General Secretariat of Equality, which must continue, so that the structures are stabilised and integrated into the state budget after the exit of the comitology in August. To those who say not much that legislation, such as the Istanbul Convention, needs us, because violence against women has been brought to the country by the refugees who are mostly Muslims along with the handkerchiefs and mutilations of women's outside genitals, ignoring basic historical data, I am obliged to recall that this practice of mutilation of women's external genitals is a pre-Islam practice which is widespread in Africa, while little is said in the Muslim countries of Asia. Chemistry, skirts and the exclusion of women from the public sphere using and physical violence were common in our Europe for centuries until the time when the sufrazettes were ruthlessly beaten and trampled to death by police horses. These practices were limited when these dangerous women began to win one victory after the other. At the same time, the dress code has changed. Those who see faborism and the creation of privileged one year abroad, where there is nothing but an attempt to upgrade the country's delegation to an international body, I can only recommend that the differentists themselves should not be judged. As far as the amendments are concerned, I would like to point out - and I wonder how the critics of the provision have drawn attention - that mobility without issuing an organisation is not generally permitted, but only if the body confirms this report and the Minister approves the relevant report that the service needs are covered by the existing provisions. As far as Greek citizenship is concerned, this is of course an important quality, especially for people who need to continue living in this country and who cannot be deprived of it, because although they are staying legally not five, not seven, but twelve years, they have not succeeded in obtaining the licence for a long period of time when we know how well and efficiently the competent authorities operate. The majority of these people who are part of the working class of the country and other parts of our scientific and artistic potential deserve the status of the citizen and the citizen as much as each and every one of us, even though the defenders of the race's cleanness, who do not want to acknowledge the conditions of the existence of a society of the 21st century, a society in which discrimination and gender-based violence have no place at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u542	We continue with Mrs Antoniou, the rapporteur for the New Democracy. Here, Mrs. Antoniou, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u543	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, listening to your speech, what we have noted is that you are so important to today's legislation that, from the thirty minutes of your speech, the twenty-five were referring to other, completely irrelevant things and not to the ratification of the Istanbul Convention. It's, if anything, embarrassing to degenerate the bill, because obviously you don't know it, nor do you want to know it. You made no reference to the provisions of the bill. None. In essence, I hear you all celebrate here for the ratification of the convention, when it was signed in 2011 by another government, when it comes with four - five articles only and it amends a legislative framework that existed in Greek legislation, Law 3500. And you're accusing us that we didn't do anything about this bill? That's what you did. In thirty minutes you spoke only two minutes about the provisions of the bill and the ratification of the contract. With regard to the privileged relations with businessmen you said, Minister, do not rub in the racket of tsapani, because I will begin to remember the best-handed parcels, the amendments for millions of euros and much more, Minister. With regard to what happened yesterday and you blamed us, as a New Democracy, we always condemn all forms of violence and have proved it, Minister. So now we are going to the amendments to which I have not had the opportunity to refer during the debate on my prototype. For Amendment No 1524, which has been made to Article 31, which concerns naturalisation: it is regrettable, ladies and gentlemen, that you support this government, that arrangements should be made for the acquisition of the status of Greek citizens with one amendment. You made two laws. So we're negative to her. On Amendment No 1533, which has been made to Article 32, I would agree with the provision, because in the republics the parties must be able to operate. In Amendment No 1530, which has been made to Articles 33, 34 and 35 of the bill: the mobility bucket has started and is extinguished - it is demonstrated by the specific three arrangements you bring - and it is being put out dangerously. It has also been verified by your amendment. So you understand that the structure of the supposed administrative reform, set up by Law 4440, you come and you break it down. So we're negative. With regard to the amendment on 'HUBJECT', we will agree on the obligations of the State. But what about "HUTTER II"? With regard to 'HUBEX II', Minister, there is the approval - I am referring to Amendment No 1518, which is Article 36 in the draft law - has been overdue. The approval of ‘CONTINU II’ came just now, on 6 March 2018, thus delaying the market liquidity and saving of funds for the public sector. What are you doing? Amendment No 1537/150 we asked you, Mr Minister, to split it into three parts, since it is three articles, as you did on the amendment by the Ministry of Administrative Reform. And you tell us 'we can't. Unfortunately, while we intend to vote on two of the three articles, you deprive us, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u544	What do you disagree with?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u545	I asked you to separate our amendment. Do you want me to mention specifically why we are negative? He's got three articles. We're negative on one. In the second and third article, if you could give us the opportunity, we would be positive. That is what I said, do as you did in the amendment by the Ministry of Administrative Reform, in which you may vote on an article. So now let's go to Amendment No 1536/149, by Mr Toska. Indeed, the 1982 provision is needed to update, change the data, and we will agree on the amendment. Of course we will disagree with the 1544/155 amendment by the Ministry of Culture, for the reasons mentioned by Mrs Kefaliannis, because without consulting the parties concerned, a draft law - because a draft law is this amendment - we find ourselves negative. In General No 1542 and Special number 153, we agree, as it retroactively abolishes the infamous residence allowance of the non-parliamentary members of the Government, and furthermore extends for one month the time limit for special classes. In Amendment No 1543 and Amendment No 154 relating to the administrative reorganisation of the Korydallos Booking Stores, we are positive. But I repeat, Minister, that after the situation in the country's penitentiary and press releases of the Federation of Penitentiary officials, which we have tabled to you, first of all, you must ensure the physical integrity of the penitentiary officials. Finally, for the amendment you have tabled, I must inform you, Mr Minister, what is in Article 19 of No 4440. I will read it out to you: ‘Each general or special provision for a secondment or transfer which is contrary to the procedures, conditions and conditions set by the PSE shall be repealed, without prejudice to Article 18, with the exception of the following specific provisions on secondments: (a) political offices, offices of elected representatives in Otta I and II grades, offices of MPs, parties, the Presidency of the Republic'. So a new law like Law 4440, Mr. Minister, is above all old-time laws that you defend you are shaking. That is why we have asked Mr Georgioda to tell us in particular, but we have only received an answer from him by saying that there are old legislations. This is how a Treaty of Istanbul, which you are raping with many provisions, and it is regrettable, Mr President, that you had a very good opportunity to hold a plenary part-session, during which all the political forces would be in agreement - in fact, you made it a rag. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u546	Mrs Kefalidou, from the Democratic Alliance, has the floor. You can also speak from your position, Mr. Kefalidou.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u547	It's all right, Mr. President, I prefer to speak from the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u548	It's three minutes, and it's not predicted when we give three minutes to speak from the Step. Anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u549	Good, thank you. But it makes it easy for me to talk from here too. Minister, I have listened very carefully to your speech. You said yourself - and thank you for recognising it - that to facilitate the legislative initiative in such an important piece of legislation has been tabled and a memorandum. So there is a very important provision that we have introduced and I will repeat it: 'For domestic violence offences, if the perpetrator is sentenced to two years or more imprisonment, it is neither suspended nor sentenced to financial punishment'. That is why we have proposed that we have heard nothing. Do you accept it? Is she worried about you? You want to think about her? I'm waiting for your answer. It is true that I had planned to talk about the amendments, which are not a few, but nine, but I shall confine myself to the one which our group has tabled and which concerns citizenship. And if I have a little time left, I will also talk about GDP, because I have some points to make after your 30-minute speech. For the amendment to nationality, then, a first point: it does not seem serious to regulate matters of nationality with amendments or with invasive provisions in unrelated bills, especially when this is repeated and when you have already announced that further changes will be made. And then, you know, there's also a process of codifying citizenship legislation. I would like to say to you that what much attention is needed is that nothing has been done so far to speed up the processes of naturalisation and so that the deadlines laid down by the law can also be reached. If you do not do something in that direction, the new applications that will be submitted will have the delay of all the applications that have been submitted so far and their examination is at risk of being completed after five years. Let us go to paragraph 7, which is our contribution to this effort. This shows that you have not fully understood the principle of equal treatment. The solution to the present problem of homosexuals is not what you are proposing. Our proposal is the abolition of the provisions in the codes of public and municipal officials, which require the completion of one year of naturalisation for appointment to the public. They are anachronistic provisions that set non-legal criteria for appointment. All Greeks are equal to the law. And you know that the Council of State has decided in this direction, at least as far as the introduction to military schools is concerned. So there can be no such provision for teachers, tax collectors, doctors, gardeners and geopoliticians. We tabled the amendment and I believe that since you see it positively, you can accept it, because you will also give a signal that it is not your attempt to sign SYRIZA so that you can accept an amendment. This isn't the first time we've lived this. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Let us now go to the amendment you are bringing to GDP. Which is a clipboard! A bill that, when it was being discussed in this Chamber, we had all pointed out how serious it is, how large social groups are, users, creators. One year later you come and make changes to your perfect law, which you did not lift and fly to your sword when we pointed out problems that might arise. You should have predicted them, if anything. Now what are you doing? If we understood well, without any consultation with users or creators, you are looking for solutions and instead of finding solutions you create deadlocks. And I ask you - the Minister has not been able to answer, I fear neither have you - the following: the management of rights will only be carried out by the state? That's an innovation! How will this entity function? Who will charge the debts to the creators? Who's going to charge the debts of the Kanthopoulou family? What are we talking about? Is there a timeframe? Is there a design? What are the steps? I say this with all honesty, because here we need to know, we need to understand what is what you are asking us to vote on. I would like your tolerance, Mr President. Please. We're at the end. I'm going to some more points. The Minister spoke of the incidents in Piraeus. Yes, it is sad and we condemn them. Our communications, however, need to be aware that there have been since you organized the squares of the 'indignant', so that all this division and the wrath of the world can channel it to your political opponents. At that time, the pre-conflicts of politicians had never been condemned by you. The rage and violence at that time, you see, were at odds with your political planning. It is a cheap excuse, Minister, to keep saying that 'we are bringing amendments because you have done so.' This argument - and I told you this morning - does not acquit you or escape you from unreliability, because times have changed. Greece is seated, the world has daily problems unsolved and you continue to legislate and distort in a way that creates an irregularity in the political system. In fact, you are afflicting us when we come with an amendment to contribute to the even distorting problem that is caused by the way you legislate. Is it an indication that you told us that “there are Members of SYRIZA defending the bill, and where are you? Disappeared.’ Indeed, Minister, it is a sign of how many Members speak in this plenary. Do you know at the same time how many meetings are running? You are a parliamentary group of fifty-four Members and we are only twenty, but the effort being made is continuous. I will tell you the other thing: what is the most essential? The most essential thing is how many of us are numerical, or how we contribute to the parliamentary work, or how we deal with a bill? I must point out and stress that the speech by Mr Voutsis, the President of Parliament, from this step by step, was very symbolic, because he has come to highlight what Mr Philis - and to his credit - highlighted the government's failure to make to such a flagrant human rights bill and to the fight against women for equality and equal treatment. This bill had to come on its own, and the President of Parliament tried with his presence to upgrade the procedure, which you do not mean to all the committees and to this day understand that it was a failure. In a normal country, this would have been the case in a normal Parliament. Do not argue anymore that it is a sign of proper legislation the way in which the Opposition will vote, namely the Change Movement. We always vote for institutions, always with the look towards the future and the needs of the citizens. You've never done that, and it really surprises you. This does not fit into your logic, which only has regularity, because I remind you how you voted for Law 3896/2010. You have then voted very nicely, and if it were to be a harmonisation of European legislation on equal rights for men and women in work and employment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u550	Mrs. Kefalidou, you spent eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u551	I will end in a minute, Mr President. It's important. Thirty-five minutes the Minister spoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u552	Mrs. Kefalidou, don't compare it to the minister's thirty-five minutes. He deserved it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u553	They have opened up issues, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u554	Excuse me. The Minister is entitled thirty-five minutes without tolerance. You know that. Please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u555	They opened up issues, and the Minister said we were few. Thank you very much. So your constant reference to scandals, let me tell you that it is a sign of weakness. Scandals are being saved. You will soon find only your own and the decorative arrangements that you are organizing and weaving. The last example is the way your candidate for the administration of the ECA has left, Mr Marinos. You ask the River: "But is it possible to join the Change Movement?" The choice made by the river, and she's with us now. I want to reverse the question, and I ask you: why are you indulging in such uncovered flirts and want to work with us? Gentlemen of the government, clumsiness and clandestineness are not left-wing. In politics it is contempt for parliamentaryism and the institutions of democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u556	The reason is the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u557	Mr President, many have been said, signatures are being signed, conditions are being ratified, but unfortunately the situation remains the same and worse for wage earners, self-employed, rural women, the unemployed, especially young women, and the phenomenon of violence. Poverty, working conditions of the gala, pregnancy redundancies, auctions, tax collectors, carpets, wage and pension cuts, commitments to NATO and the Americans, wash them out for imperialist wars and what's happening in the region! This is SYRIZA, western Marxism, Eurocommunism, SYRIZA, who was asked to give hand to capitalist barbarism today! That is the policy you are implementing. And it is very convenient for a sensitive issue such as violence against women, domestic violence, to bring in parallel provisions relating to the EUROJUST reactionary and the area of freedom, security and justice, which is a Euro-Union, national mechanisms for suppressing the popular movement. That is why you brought them along with the Istanbul Convention to overshadow the reactionary mechanisms against a sensitive issue of women. Ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA has a tendency to consciously disperse in toxic approaches to justify the unscientific approaches that detract racial inequality from class inequality. And here we need to remind you not of what Western Marxism says - and I don't know who else, Bardaris' Marxism, the south, the north, the northeast - but what Marx and Engels said on the basis of historical materialism about the female issue, which has shown that this as a social phenomenon is a history. And he said in the "origin of the family" that the first opposition of classes presented in history coincides with the development of competition between men and women, thus proving that enslavement is born in combination: class and racial. Women are therefore an orderly social category in which there are women belonging to all the social classes. Racial problems in women of all classes and classes may exist only on the basis of the unequal relationship with men, its social production and its relationship with gender reproduction and family households. This is what causes women to experience common problems, such as domestic violence, sexual harassment, other prejudices. The main thing, however, is the class contrast between women and racial. This is why today, in our time, it is the race for racial equality to be an integral part of the struggle for social equality, for the abolition of all forms of exploitation, which has been rejected after abomination and the Internal Affairs JRC and Euro-Communism, the Western Marxism you have told us before. In relation to the amendments tabled by the JRC, Minister, by your silence you rejected the amendments on the terrorist and the DNA. SYRIZA once went out to the bars on these things. On the subject of the terrorist, of course, all right, we did not expect you to accept the JRC's amendment calling for the abolition of the terrorist, because it is a part of the overall reactionary puzzle: the Palermo Convention, the Euro-terrorist, the European arrest warrant and others. As it turns out, you are currently standing sous in European orders, cheques, the Euro-terrorist, i.e. the Euro-terrorist, etc. However, the question of DNA that lays down conditions for the protection of the defendant, which he defines rather than widen, as is currently the case, the possibility of obtaining genetic material and DNA analysis, why do you not accept it? Why? So, can anyone go and put a hair on a gun and wrap him up on a paper glue and take him to jail, like with Herianna and Pericles? In relation to the third amendment, I have this to say: at least it could have been accepted and we were expecting you to accept it. We've been waiting. Unjustified the government's attitude to this matter. We keep it, however, that you will bring it into a next draft law, because in any case in 2018, the other cannot carry his relative's bones to bury them in the place where he was born, because citizenship has been removed. Inadmissible! And to conclude with regard to the amendment concerning the Intellectual Property Organisation: this amendment shows that the Government is literally writing to its old shoes the possibilities of collective procedures provided for by the statutes of collective management organisations to deal with any problems. The thickest, however, is that the Intellectual Property Organisation with this amendment also acquires rights manager properties, while at the same time the supervisory body, i.e. it has two incompatible properties. However, this has other side effects: as an administrator it is involved in the discussion of collective management organisations to allocate percentages from private reproduction fees, reasonably. In the event of disagreement between them, however, the Intellectual Property Organisation as supervisors decides how the percentage will be allocated and with the planned NRAs effectively expropriate all the assets, for which a judicial decision is needed. There is also no provision for measures for GNI workers. The Minister told us here that GDP is over. That's it. It's over. What about the workers? They're covered? Oh, no. Well, the Caucasian, then, the workers. And other issues that I don't have time to mention. In any case, we are asking for this amendment to be withdrawn, that there should be rules that deal solely with the problem of the functioning of the CAP and that it should be passed on to its authors. We are absolutely in line with the demands of the workers who say that the possibility of speculative collective management organisations be excluded, that the possibility of setting up independent management entities should be excluded. A collective management organisation for each sector of rights. To exclude as non-beneficiaries the copyright of artists, creators, performers and performers all its businessmen and the Intellectual Property Organisation from becoming a legal person governed by public law. That's all, Mr. President. The rest will be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u558	No, there is no placement, Mr Syntagakis, in the vote. By voting, obviously.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u559	Yes, I meant by voting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u560	Good. Mr Mavrotas has the floor, the last of the speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u561	Mr President, after everyone spoke, could I speak for a minute too?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u562	Yeah, I'm sorry. The Bureau knew that you would not speak, and that is why I did not mention you. That's what you said. But there's no problem. You want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u563	Yeah, for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u564	Mr. Mavroy, do you have any objections?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u565	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u566	Here you go, Mr. Cavaldela, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u567	Thank you. First of all, I was very sorry that the honourable Members here abused the time and courtesy of the Bureau. And I say this with sorrow, because I imagine the time is that on television it is the world, and we are going overrun by talking about various issues and developing everything. I would just like to say one point, because I want to be in my time accurate. I will talk about Article 32, which incorporates Amendment 1533, which deals with arrangements by the Ministry of Interior about the state funding of political parties. The political parties borrowed money, which they did not deserve, because apart from sponsoring by the state at this time their power is not enough to repay them. At a time when we take the homes of the world and confiscate the accounts of the citizens in the banks 100%, this amendment allowing parties to hold 50% of the funding from the state seems at least abusive and makes the Greek public a sense of being wronged and the parties exceed their rights. The position of the Union of Centres is that parties should not be granted from the state budget. They have members and they could work with their members. There don't have to be soldiers in the parties. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u568	Thank you, Mr. Cavadela. Mr. Mavrosh has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u569	Thank you, Mr President. I shall start with two amendments. The first is Amendment No 1530, and number 147, which removes the requirement for an organisation to be established in order to implement mobility. We believe that this amendment is a huge regression, which, without organograms, will in fact be possible without organisations to transfer and transfer. We believe that this opens wide opens a glorious field for rushphetti, because without knowing what needs a body has, without having its organogram you can move freely, and this will create surpluses in the relocations and shortcomings in the front line of the public. The second amendment, 1544, concerns GDPI and OPI. We have asked you to withdraw it and insist on it, because we believe that this amendment actually creates a great division in the artistic area due to the lack of adequate consultation. To go to what the Minister mentioned about us. I honestly did not understand whether the reference to the Potami and the Change Movement by the Minister is part of an arable political flirt, which is common to the SYRIZA executives lately to this particular place, which reaches the limits of political stalling, since we are under the Istanbul Convention and are discussing it. So before the Minister's admonition comes to us, before he tips at the Potami about who he should work with, I'd tell him to look a little by him to see who he's running for. In particular, because he is the Minister of Justice, who actually has rights under him, he should be more careful, I believe, because when he thanked Potami and thanked me personally for having voted for the gender identity bill, when his co-governors were empty, I did not expect a bill on rights, such as the Istanbul Convention, to remind him so strongly of what co-government it is. In addition, the amendment on the financing of the parties, Amendment Nos 1533 and 148, Mr Minister, we will not vote on it. You bring her and you vote for her, with your signature coming. This debate on the lending of the parties also does not concern us. You who have loans find the and the appropriate amendments you need to bring in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u570	Thank you, Mr. Mavrota. Mr. Papachristopoulos, before we give the floor to the Minister, you asked for the floor and you will take the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u571	I did not intend to speak, Mr President, and I do not intend - and I think I have spoken to the committees four times this morning in plenary - to say anything more about the bill. But I have something to say. Because I really feel like I have to say that some people behave in this Chamber - their right, of course, we are all judged - as if their parties have come from virginity, as if there were no bankruptcy in that country, as if all of them had flown normally for all the crimes in this country were to blame for three years of governance by SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks. I just want to remind you that it is easy for words, but reality is hard. I don't intend to go back to the past. And to be honest, I am exempted from this story, because it has another attitude, consistent - I would say - in what it has always believed and believed, and at least what I will say is not about the JRC. So we lived in a bankruptcy, a country that was taken bankrupt. When 120% of GDP gets it at 180%, when unemployment gets at 27%, and when the debt is received at 325 billion, it is the definition of a bankrupt country and some people are once waiting for an elementary self-criticism. Two parties have ruled forty years. How did the country get here? This is not the time to remember what happened with the stock exchanges, what happened with the equipment, what happened with the 'SIEMENS', what happens daily in health. I have the "happiness" to deal with nine months of how previous people ruled the health sector. I don't want to be acidic either. I just want to finish saying this. Some have chosen this miserable, in my opinion, tactics of the permanent protest at a time when the country is literally leaving, after eight years, from where some have brought it. I'm saying this because I'm sure I have a feeling within them that they don't want the country to leave, that this eight-year-old story ends - I'd say a lot more - years. I feel the need to say these words that have nothing to do with the bill, because it really is challenging. One word, one self-critic, one thing, half a word. That doesn't fit, I think, logic. I don't want to get tired. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u572	With Mr Papachristopoulos, the seconds of special speakers and rapporteurs have been completed. Minister, you have the floor to conclude the procedure and move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u573	Thank you, Mr President. I will be as brief as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, in fact, the time spent on ratifying the Istanbul Convention was relatively small. I would like to say, however, that none of the rapporteurs, from the special speakers, from the Members who spoke on a point at which they referred to the Istanbul Convention negatively. Everyone spoke in the most positive way, regardless of the other issues. So you realise that we did not have a place to choose and, if necessary, oppose the Istanbul Convention. On other issues I had to answer, which were raised throughout the debate from the twelve that we started up to this point. What I told you, however, as regards the interest of members of the opposition parties, I think it was put on the list: Four Members from New Democracy, no one from the Democratic Incorporation. That's the truth. So don't blame the government for something when your interest in the matter has shown it for the debate, positions and so on. In fact, if you wanted to refer more to the Istanbul Convention, you should have said more to mention and raise matters. The only question raised was by Mrs Kefalidou, and indeed in her second-guess regarding criminal law, so that the penalty has not been suspended. Look, at the moment, I think that such a penalty can move within the framework of the existing framework of penalties. But I tell you that over time - and we will see the law how it will be tested and its results - we may have a reposition. However, I am telling you something: the stricter application of the penalty framework is not what solves the problem. And I'm telling you, as a lawyer. As a lawman, I have this view. It is more important to inspire the procedure - as I now say contagiously, it does not respond to the letter from the Prosecutor's Mediation, so that the perpetrator also has prospects of improvement, rather than go into a stricter framework of penalties. I do not believe in the extreme and strict framework of penalties. And I think it would be a very easy and impatient approach. As far as citizenship is concerned. The amendment tabled by Mr Skourletis from the beginning to the committee has been explained. It is mainly about homosexuals who must not be in a more unfavourable position than foreigners who enter the process of naturalisation. I don't think that's a thing. On the contrary, I think it is something very important. And the Minister told you, Mr Skourletis, and I told you that with the amendment you tabled - and I praised you, I was not critical if you did not understand it, and I said again that you did very well and brought it, and I said so in my speech - you contribute to the parliamentary dialogue process. And the Minister told you - and I told you - that he was in the right direction and in the next piece of legislation, whether alone or in full, the amendment will be considered by the Ministry of the Interior and will be included in a bill. Ladies and gentlemen, you have referred a great deal to the issue of copyright and the amendment tabled by Mrs Connordos from the Ministry of Culture. Look, those who have ruled the country for many decades feel proud of the situation in the field of copyright? Do they feel proud of the legislation they have brought and led to this situation? So I would firstly like to hear from both New Democracy and the PASOK would be that "we have failed for so many years with the legislation that we have brought, because it has led to a shipwreck". And you saw the spiritual creators how they reacted to the latest developments and the great scandal of GDPI. So it takes a symptom, when you criticize, in an attempt by the Ministry of Culture to put a class in this field. I do not want to enter into an in-depth debate about how successful this effort is. I think it is absolutely successful, because now it establishes control mechanisms, when you in the previous legislation had a situation completely uncontrolled. Ladies and gentlemen, there has also been talk of the incidents in Piraeus. I was waiting today for a posteriori and after you were provoked by the government - a clear condemnation of what happened: violence against a political party, violence against a political party and, in particular, the Minister for Finance! And don't try to make relationships with situations...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u574	Didn't you hear?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u575	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u576	I'm telling you this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u577	You don't like to remind me of bad texts!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u578	Please! Minister, go on, but finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u579	I tell you that if you come to the House and blame the government for tolerateing violence and challenging violence, then you should be the first to condemn these incidents.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u580	Didn't you hear me from Stepma?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u581	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u582	You made a skin report when your party quietly and quietly over twenty-four hours.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u583	Am I not expressing my party? Didn't we make announcements on these matters? Since 2011, we have received communications on this issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u584	I'll finish. When something like this had happened for any other political party or political official, you would have issued fifteen announcements and went out on the channels to tell us that SYRIZA is suffering violence.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u585	Mr. Contonis, don't shoot yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u586	And so is the New Democracy. But here, this attitude reveals the complexity of business interests and nothing else.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u587	What do you want, Mr. Condonne? Feeboon?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u588	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u589	This blatant silence on what happened reveals your attitude, your involvement and the justification of these business interests, who think that, because they possess the wealth or because they own groups and newspapers, they can negate the country's political situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u590	Can they have a gun? Say it. Can they have guns?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u591	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u592	The answer was yesterday in Piraeus. One hundred and fifty - two hundred types, seated, trumpets who attacked the Minister of Finance and a political concentration. These remind the anti-concentrations in 1963 in Thessaloniki, when Lambrakis was murdered. That's what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u593	In 2011, we were here and we lived it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u594	Minister, please, please, we'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u595	I'm done. As far as the loans are concerned, which have been made a great deal of talk here, ladies and gentlemen, there are political parties which have taken EUR four hundred million loans and are sure they will not pay them. So these loans go to the back of the Greek taxpayer. I am not going to go into internal matters. It was very nice and I liked Mr. Mavrota's example of constant harassment. Mr. Black, no one's harassing you. But I asked you for a placement: Will you join in, become accomplices with what PASOK is trying to organise? Because if a vehicle is set up with a new VAT and the loans remain unpaid, then there is a political issue. I didn't tell you who you were going with and who you're leaving. These are your issues. The government doesn't matter to her.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u596	Mr President, these statements by the Minister to stop. I want to place myself.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u597	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u598	But here, on the big issue of political money, which you too have denounced many times, and we are bringing an amendment at least so that the political parties will not function half of their funding, which will be paid back. That is what the amendment says. Didn't you read the amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u599	We're entering other intruders and I'm going to be placed. Decide on which boat you're on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u600	Please, there will be no dialogue. Minister, please, please, we'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u601	And in the loans yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u602	No, Mr. Black, you're making a very big mistake. There is not a single euro due to SYRIZA's loans. SYRIZA pays up to the last penny of all his debts.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u603	I was in the committee, and I know all the debts.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u604	You know it. So I don't have to tell you. Ladies and gentlemen, there has again been a repetition of an issue relating to the amendments. Listen, in order to reach agreement: If the amendments are not to be tolerated, they should be repealed by the Rules of Procedure of the House. Which party recommends it? None. Because you all know that the amendments are a means of addressing emergencies through the legalisation of this type. That is why the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, since the birth of the Greek state, are never to be abolished.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u605	You're done!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u606	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u607	You know, you're in a dead end and what you're saying doesn't have any basis and you're flying like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u608	Minister, I'm making a warm request. The Bureau has no inexhaustible hours, I am very sorry. The vote is followed by the vote. I'll have to be here by 22:30 - 23:00. Please. There are human resistance from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u609	But for me, there is that, Mr President. I'm done. The amendments therefore all had the urgent point. I have spoken positively about the amendments tabled by the opposition, and I have said that two of them will be accepted in a next bill. To conclude, I would like to say this: Mr Syntagakis, is it possible to say that EUROJUST is designed to strike the people's movement? EUROJUST exists to hit organised and cross-border crime. Do you ever think that cross-border and international crime can be dealt with only through national police authorities? We need coordination here, because this has now become a supranational one, and we have to deal with it in this way. It has nothing to do with the people's movement with the action of EUROJUST. I would like to say that you have done well and tabled this amendment. I told you you were absolutely right. It was not accepted in this bill to check the legal conditions and we will bring it to the next day if it is exactly what you say. For the other two, you have all the time and the opportunity to discuss issues relating to the Criminal Code. The legislative committee of its work has been closed during the debate on the new Criminal Code. Therefore, not fragmentally and individually, but in a form that is structured and comprehensive. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u610	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles, amendments and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights is adjourned: 'I Repeal of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and Endogenous Violence and Adaptation of Greek Law, II) Incorporation of 2005/214/JHA Framework Decision, as amended by Framework Decision 2009/299/JHA, on the application of the principle of mutual recognition of financial penalties and III) Other provisions on the competence of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights and other provisions.' We move on to vote on the principle, articles, amendments and all, and they will be voted on separately. I would very much ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u611	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u612	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u613	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: "I) Repeal of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combat of Violence against Women and Independent Family Violence and Adaptation of Greek Law, II) Incorporation of 2005/214/JHA Framework Decision, as amended by Framework Decision 2009/299/JHA, on the application of the principle of mutual recognition of financial penalties and III) Other provisions of the competence of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights and other provisions were accepted by a simple majority, in principle, of the articles and of the whole and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u614	I would ask the House to empower the Bureau for its ratification of the Minutes in its entirety.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u615	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-29-S1-commons.u616	With the consent of the House at 22.25 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow morning, March 30, 2018, at 10.00, on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: topical questions.
