ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S2-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION Today's special session of the House will be attended and addressed to the House by the President of the European Commission, Jean-Claude Juncker. I would ask the House to agree to suspend for a moment our guest from the Bureau. Is this House conducive?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S2-commons.u2	The House therefore consented unanimously. We are adjourning the sitting here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S2-commons.u3	Mr President of the Hellenic Republic, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are pleased to welcome today the President of the European Commission, Jean-Claude Juncker, on the fact that he is the first official of the European Union to speak to the House of Greeks. Mr President, your political path over time reflects your commitment to the founding values and the systematic effort to strengthen the European Union in order to address the current challenges and to overcome the obvious deadlocks that put questions about the entity itself and the future of the European Union. We were given the opportunity a few days ago at the Conference of Presidents, which took place in Tallinn, Estonia, in the context of the dialogue on the future of Europe, to refer to an environment of creative reflection and significant contradictions and divergences from the leaderships of certain Member States, the obvious need for more democracy and social convergence, for a more active role for the European Parliament, for an end to austerity and for solidarity policies with development and social progress, for a new dynamic and democratic legitimacy in the vision of the peoples, as well as in the role of the European Union in an international environment, with initiatives on peace and stability in the wider region in which our country is the European Union's borders, to combat the neo-National and xenophobic trends that deny European values. Mr President, you have contributed over time to the awareness that the crisis must be tackled as a European problem and not only concerns the affected economies, in an environment which has unfortunately favoured and imposed very hard budgetary adjustment programmes, with serious social consequences which Greek society and youth have experienced. We also note that you have remained committed to the country's presence in the Eurozone, that you have a positive contribution to addressing the great refugee crisis, with respect to the principles of international law, solidarity and humanism, contrary to the indifference or open undermining of this policy by leaderships from other Member States. Mr President, your discussions here with the country's state and political leadership give a high symbolic support to the Commission at the last stage of the country's exit from the extreme memorandum commitments. You also give a message of support to Greek society in the struggle to stay upright, with optimism for the future. Mr President, we look forward with real interest to the speech you will address us. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S2-commons.u4	Mr President, Prime Minister, Mr President of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, all the good Members present. I salute all friends. In a way, I think that my presence here in a universal way gives a sign of the importance of all this intervention. Mr President of the House, I am very happy and very honoured to be able to address the Greek Parliament. I am really glad to be able to take the floor in this real temple of democracy, where the Greek people are represented and where their will is expressed in a very sincere and very straightforward manner, as we know. Greece is a great nation, with an excellent culture, in which all of us Europeans owe much. Greece is indeed the cradle of the political idea of democracy. This is where the institution of democracy was born, where it is incorporated and raped to this day. For me, you know, Greece is not only the ancient philosophers, it is Mikis Theodorakis and Melina Merkouri, who more and better than anyone else had understood that our cultures with their diversity and wealth are the foundation of unity among the peoples of Europe. Greece for me is also all these women and all these men - which I have observed from a long time when I was young - who managed to say no to the regime of the colonists. This is the real intellectual freedom, when we can no longer only say 'yes' to what is happening around us. And the Greeks have already demonstrated to the whole world that they really wanted to create history and not to be subject to it. Thus Europe was structured, through the will of all those who, coming from the battlefield and concentration camps in 1945, refused to bend their heads and chose to be "architectures" and not "slaves" of history. Yes, for my entire political life I wanted and remained a loyal friend of Greece and especially when elsewhere in Europe, some demagogers and populists did not hesitate to want Greece to come out of the Eurozone, which I have always denied. For my part, I have always taken care to speak openly and sincerely to the Greeks, first respecting their dignity. For me the essential thing has always been the fate and fate of the Greek people, especially the most humble and the most afflicted among them. So I would like to warmly and very emotionally address the Greek people and welcome their courage and will. In fact, the Greeks have always shown great will to overcome any obstacles that history brought to them. In fact, I am honored and thrilled to have the privilege of being the first President of the European Commission who has the pleasure of addressing directly to the representatives of a people that I so much love, especially after so many years of trial, austerity programs with Greece now being able to raise head and turn a page. A new chapter now opens in the history of Greece. This point will be crucial for Greece. It will also be crucial for Europe. Because Europe certainly has a great deal to get, as did French philosopher Blue Pascal: 'of the things that make sense'. Of course, Greece and Europe go together and make sense. They're going with each other. I have always thought that Europe is a big deal. It's a big adventure, as well as a big plan. I have always thought that Europe without Greece would be an incomplete structure. And Greece without Europe would be a country like any other, while Greece is not any country. It is no coincidence that since 1959, only two years after the signing of the Treaty of Rome, Greece has been the first country to ask to become a associated member of what was then referred to as the 'European Economic Community'. So this union agreement, signed in 1961, was suspended six years later, after the colonial coup d'état in 1974, so that it could then be reactivated in '74. You will now allow me to have a particular thought and excitement to the man who has not been among us for twenty years now, for Constantine Karamanlis, who was a great democrat and a strong defender of Greek unity, a European person who managed to become Greece the tenth Member State of the European Communities. For my part, I have lived through all the great moments of the European route in Greece. I particularly remember that I was in Athens on 16 April 2003, during the fourth Presidency of the Council of the European Union, to sign the accession treaties of the ten new Member States. It was for me a very touching and memorable moment, because it marked the reconciliation of history and European geography. If you wish, it was the end of a road that led us - if I may say so - from Luxembourg to Athens, since, under the Luxembourg Presidency of the Council of the Union, in December 1997, the basic principles of this enlargement were laid down for the first time. As we have eyes turned towards a future and with a view to European integration with the integration of the Balkans, we can still count and count Greece. In addition to its great virtues, Greece has historical and geographical peculiarities that the other countries of Europe do not have. Greece is one of the pillars of stability in the Balkans. You better than anyone else know that history was a strong course for Greece. This area suffered a great deal. You know that the Western Balkans need this European perspective so that the drama that we experienced in the 1990s will not be repeated. I recently visited all the partners in the Western Balkans - it was last February - and I reminded each of them that they will be judged on the basis of their virtues, which we should take into account. And all this plays a role in stability within the European Union. All these problems, in particular the conflicts at the borders that could create bilateral conflicts, will have to be resolved before any accession takes place. To be quite clear, I would like to say that when the European Commission proposed - just a week ago it was - the opening of accession negotiations for Albania, but also for FYROM, this does not mean that, for our part, we have given the date on which these enlargement and accession negotiations will begin. It is not even the date of accession that has been set. Attention should not be based on unrealistic announcements. That's not possible. Everyone will be judged on the basis of objective values and criteria. I should also like to say, Mr President, before your Parliament, something I said when I was recently in Skopje, where the issue of the name of that country was raised. I am not going to give you any direction, not even ideas or directions, on an issue which will have to be settled in any way between us. However, let me stress, in any case, the urgent need to find a solution to the problem, given that in this complex region - and I am thinking of the words of Churchill - 'the story that is produced cannot be consumed'. It's so much, it's so big and it's too much. Mr President, I met Greece at moments of intense emotion, charged. Together with Greece I experienced them, which was certainly intense, very strong and is not always easy. Your country has been at the heart of what I call 'Multi-crisis Europe', a crisis in financial, economic, social and immigration. Every time I wanted to, and I was committed to the idea of supporting Greece in difficult times. I have always been convinced that if another country had been in Greece's position, faced with the same problems, socially, financially, structurally and migratoryly, it might not have dealt with them as the Greek people did with such courage and dignity. With regard to migration flows, I have always said, including the time when I campaigned for the European elections in 2014, that we cannot let Greece alone manage the refugee issue. There are countries in Europe that do not seem to care so much about the problem of refugees. They feel it doesn't affect them. And yet, whether we are members of the Union or not, if a country is aware of serious problems, such as Greece, the others have an obligation of solidarity to the contrary and they must assist it. I must also stress here the important effort of Commissioner Avramopoulos in managing a policy of effective and mutual solidarity in the field of immigration. In recent years, the European Union has provided substantial financial and technical assistance to Greece to deal with an unprecedented flow of refugees. Greece has done a great deal, in particular to ensure that our agreement with Turkey is functioning properly. I know how difficult this is, especially at a time when Turkey continues to do things illegally in the area of the Eastern Mediterranean and the Aegean. When we recently met President Erdogan in Varna, Bulgaria, we clearly reminded him of Turkey's obligation to respect international law and good neighbourly relations and to normalise its relations with all the Member States of the European Union, including Cyprus. Let us not forget both Greek soldiers today, who are still prisoners in Turkey. And not to tell me that the presence of two Greek soldiers on Turkish soil poses a threat to Turkey's security. These two Greek soldiers must definitely be released. I would also like to say that I have great admiration for the commitment of many Greeks who spontaneously came to help refugees, opening up their hearts and homes, and even the Greeks themselves are going through a period of so difficult, during which they had to make too many sacrifices. I was President of the Eurogroup when in May 2015 Greece crushed under the burden of public debt became the first Eurozone country to be put under a financial aid programme. And when I have become President of the Commission, we have all experienced difficult times together with some small progress, some drawbacks and many fluctuations, which certainly quite dramatically and finally ended up in August 2015 in an agreement. In those difficult years I have insisted particularly on the social dimension, which is also very necessary for this country and for others. The social dimension and social protection are the poor children of the European construction. That is why I wanted to create a safe area of social rights precisely so that there could be protection as quickly as possible. I would also like to say a few words about the Europe programme that bears my name, the Yoonker programme. At first, many were those who thought it would be a complete failure given the data, because those who said that would also be responsible. However, now that this is a success and with investment being encouraged, what do they have to say? This, along with the mobilisation of many funds. We are talking about 284 billion investments across Europe, of which only 8.6 billion for Greece, which is the first one among those who took advantage of this plan that bears my name. During these eight difficult years, the size of my friendship for Greece was likeness only to the size of my anger towards those who are threatening Greece every day, because this is not a way of dealing with friends, it is not a way of treating citizens of the European Union. I want to say very clearly - and I keep saying this for eight years - that we have no lessons to give Greece. Greece has no lessons to learn from other states. Yes, Greece was able from the point of view of members of the Eurozone to benefit from a massive, brave financial aid. We are talking about EUR 262 billion if we include loans from the International Monetary Fund. However, Greece has also clearly demonstrated its commitment to adjustment programmes and launched an integrated shield of reforms, often painful, but also the guarantee of modernisation: pension reform, social security system, labour market, public administration, public sector, banking, budgetary, education and a whole range of others. This restructuring of public finances was spectacular with a deficit that from 15% in 2009 went to surplus in 2016. It is true that no other Member State - Member State - has been reformed more quickly and more radically than Greece. I would like to say to the Greek citizens, especially to the most troubled among them, that I have a deep love and admiration for the excellent overall effort they have made. Indeed, I have never been in favour of a political austerity of blind and inexcusable. We have always stressed the importance of the social dimension within this restructuring programme during this second period. I think what you are now building up, what you are doing now is preparing the future of your children. If we do nothing today, your children will absolutely have to do so tomorrow and, in circumstances even more difficult than today. I would like to exorcise you to continue your efforts and not to slip, not to let the results that you have been able to get lost in recent years with so many sacrifices. The end of the third support programme will mark the beginning of a new era for your country, which will regain all its rights, but also all the obligations that a sovereign state has towards the Eurozone. Greece's access to markets must be restored, but all the reforms decided on must be implemented in particular and the economic and budgetary policies undertaken in order to achieve a lasting and creative recovery of jobs must be followed. For this new Greece of tomorrow it will also have to be lifted and cured by all the pathogens that have so cost your country and society. The State should not only be a service provider, it should not be just an employer. Furthermore, the country needs healthy banks in the development service in the general interest and not just in order to serve its own interests. We absolutely must once and for all eradicate corruption. The economy must create jobs and not debts for all new Greeks. In return, Greece's European partners should also respect the commitments they have made as regards the measures taken on debt. Pacta sunt servanda! The same applies to all of Europe. Solidarity and responsibility are two sides of the same currency and the currency is that of our European Union. As Greece regains its fair position within Europe, I count on Greece. I count on you all so that we can all discuss the Union of twenty-seven. Because I cannot imagine Europe without Greece's support, which is crucial. It is not for me to remind the descendants of Thucydides that the past must teach us in the present. This debate should give us lessons and lessons, especially when setting the major priorities for the next European budget for immigration policy. This debate on our common future - Europe of twenty-seven - is a demanding dialogue that must be concluded and that this should be done we must have patience but also commitment, will and determination. Patience and determination must certainly characterise those who have great ideas and ambitions. Long live European Greece! Long live Greek Europe! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S2-commons.u5	Thank you to the President of the European Commission, Mr Jean-Claude Juncker. Ladies and gentlemen, following the conclusion of the speech of the President of the European Commission, the President of the Hellenic Republic Mr Prokopis Pavlopoulos and the President of the European Commission Mr Jean-Claude Juncker will depart. Please let Second Vice-President of the House take over the seat, Mr. Bored.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S2-commons.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, the special meeting scheduled for today has been completed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S2-commons.u7	With the consent of the House at 13.45 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, April 27, 2018 at 10 a.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
