ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the legislative agenda, let me communicate to the Department the topical and urgent question issue Thursday 2 August 2018. FURTHER AFFAIRS (Rule 29(1) and 130 of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 25-26-2018 by the New Democracy MP Mr. Yoyakas to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: ‘Strengthening and speeding up the processing of pension applications at local offices of the Farmers' Party’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 27-27-2018 by the Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese Republican Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "DiaGORAS Airport of Rhodes". 3. The 28-27-2018 topical question by Congressman I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister of National Defence, on "Cazan ready to explode the state of Skopje". 4. The Question No 29/30-7-2018 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "For continued insecurity - the hostage of auxiliary personnel in PAGNE". 5. The 26-26-7-2018 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Union of Centres Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "About the legality of the Skouria mine". 6. The 23/25-2018 topical question by MP Kilkis of the New Democracy Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgioda, to the Minister for Administrative Reconstruction, on the subject: "The Government covers the four ministers who received the details of the documents of the candidates' secretaries." 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 19-24-2018 topical question of the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn, Christos Papapas, to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "About the persecutions that have been suffered by the Scottish authorities, Archbishop Ahridos Ioannis." 8 H by No 24-26-7-2018 a topical question by the Member of Parliament, Aitolakaranania, of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister of Health, on "Problems in the functioning of the Centre for Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation of Amphisia (KEFIAP)". 9. The Question No 1/12-7-2018 by Congressman Pireos of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The situation in the refugee hospitality centre in Scaramaga is uncontrolled." 10. The Question No 21-25-2018 by Independent MP II of Athens, Mr.Akaterini Papakostas - Sideropoulou, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Creation of the Academy of Arts". Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the Department that the Standing Committee on Formats Affairs is tabling its report on the draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs "University of Ioannina, Ionian University and other provisions". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: "University of Ioannina, Ionian University and other provisions". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 25 July 2018 to discuss the draft law at one to two meetings, one single, on the principle, articles, amendments and all. The department agrees?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u2	The department agreed. I would like to remind you that, because there is no system of automatic registration in this Chamber, those of the Members who wish to speak, to declare it to the Secretariat. The rapporteur for SYRIZA, Mr Ioannis Stephen, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my position, let me, on this occasion, once again express my condolences, grief and suffering, which I am absolutely sure we have all experienced these days because of a tragedy that has found our place. I would also really like to thank and express my full gratitude to men and women, the police, the fire brigade and the Port Authority for what they have done and doing. It is time, in a spirit of national unity, to heal these wounds. The bill, now. Today we are discussing the bill: "University of Ioannina, Ionian University and other provisions" submitted by the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs. This is a bill illustrating the government's vision of the single area of higher education. It is a follow-up to previous legislation aimed at upgrading HEIs, developing research and being a vote in a series of consolidations that will take place in the next period, where necessary and feasible. The government gives its mark on how it sees higher education in the country. At a time of general reclassification, liquidity and the creation of new partnerships at the level of the academic community, we have to answer the question: What kind of higher education do we want? The government's philosophy is that we need strong higher institutions that will promote research, ensure the maximum quality of teaching in students and become institutions of global radiation and range. The three pillars on which such a debate should be based are the harmonious cultivation of humanitarian and positive sciences, what actions will Greek HEIs make internationally recognizable, contributing to the social and economic development of the country and how HIIs plan the present and future of our country. For these issues, because they are fundamental issues relating to the very existence and ethics of the HEIs, the most responsible are the institutions themselves. Let us see some of the measures taken by the government so far, which are the continuation of this bill. He tried to bring the Foundations A.I., T.I. and research centres closer together by creating synergies. It has given particular weight to the improvement of the PCAs that have been found for the major victims of the crisis and the policies followed, I remind you of the Arvanitopoulos era. The proportion of PES graduates in tertiary education increased. Over a thousand sites were given to HEIs and TEIs. In 2015, 45% of the funding was increased. Scholarships for undergraduate and postgraduate students were established and research funding increased for the first time to over 1% of GDP, reaching 1.750,000 euros for last year. Following on from the above measures, the creation of the single higher education area is attempted. In this context, this bill achieves the creation of two strong foundations, which will become reference points and development levers in their region, but also in the wider region of the Balkans. The bill is the product of a wide-ranging public dialogue, which has developed throughout the past period and has also been demonstrated in the discussions of the Committee on Morphic Affairs with stakeholders. It establishes new Departments and Schools taking into account the needs of local communities and the particular development prospects of each region. We are talking about departments and schools that were already demands from the university community, as well as local societies and the country as a whole since the 1990s. So it is not a bill that attempts a de facto supremacy of HEIs as it has been done in the past, nor is it an arbitrary university. The new schools at the University of Ioannina are the School of Informatics and Telecommunications Applications in Arta, the School of Agriculture in Arta, the School of Social Sciences in Ioannina and the School of Musical Studies in Arta, while the School of Economic and Social Sciences is renamed to a School of Economic and Administrative Sciences. At the Ionian University the School of Environment in Zakynthos and the School of Social Sciences in Corfu are founded. The bill also provides for the establishment of the following sections at the University of Ioannina: Nursing, Accounting, Education and Care in Early Childhood, Accounting and Finance, Musical Studies, Informatics and Telecommunications, Geology, Psychology, Translation and Interpretation, Food and Food Sciences and Engineering. The Ionian University provides for the establishment of the following sections: Ethnoscologics, Food Science and Technology, Environment, Regional Development, Tourism and Digital Instruments and Communications. I would remind you again that many of these schools and departments have been demanding not only of societies and universities since 1990, but also of the need to develop these regions even more. In addition, the bill provides for the establishment of two university research centres for each university. This is a flagrant legislative initiative which establishes a consistent request from the university community. This provision comes as a physical continuation of the government's choice to support the research sector in the country for the first time. This is evidenced by the creation of jobs in universities and research centres in the country, something that has been missing over the last seven years, which is why the Ministry approved a thousand new ICPs and a hundred new researchers' posts for the last two years 2017-2018. The aim of each centre will be to carry out a basic and applied research for the benefit of the Greek society as a whole. The specialisation of new scientists, the provision of services to public and private bodies, the promotion of Greek and foreign culture and mediation between the public and private sectors will be among the care and care of these centres. The Research Centre of the University of Ioannina is planned to operate with the following five institutes: Science, Environment and Sustainable Development, Materials and Computing Sciences, Humanities and Social Studies, Economic Analysis and Solidarity of Economy. The Research Centre of the Ionian University is expected to operate with two institutes: the Institute of Science, Biotechnology, Food and Environment Science and the Institute of Music and Arts. In addition, in Arta, the model rural food technology park of Epirus is established, which, in cooperation with the Agricultural School, will design and carry out productive activities in rural and ecological direction, an initiative based on the rural economy of Epirus region, will ensure the improvement, modernisation and development of rural production in the region, helping to strengthen local society and ensuring jobs at a time that is particularly critical to unemployment in the country. At this point, I would like to focus on the methodology followed for the preparation of today's bill. Committees made up of members of the Republican authorities and members of the Institutions with a representative of the Ministry were set up in each institution. The strict framework for which the committees were invited to draw up their findings mainly included the institutions' qualitative and quantitative characteristics: infrastructure, a history of competitive funding, an educational research project offered, a view to the Greek and international scientific community, a perspective for the future and the strategic planning of the institutions. The findings of the committees were discussed by the conferences and the university community of each institution. Then the bill was put into the public consultation to take its current form for a very long time. It is clear that the process followed has nothing to do with the authoritarian processes followed by the New Democracy and the PASOK when, on accounting terms and without academic criteria, they made a hundred and twenty-nine abolitions and mergings of schools and departments in a process that was a shame on higher education and democracy. I would like to remind you here that in 2014 Mr Stavros denounced the 'ATHENA' project - for that is what I am talking about - saying that he did absolutely nothing and there was no reason for the sixty thousand who were paid back at the time for the study to take place. So on the opposite side of the "ATHENA" project, we chose the difficult road, the climbing road, as Kazantzakis would urge us, a road that ultimately deserved to cross because it proved to be through positions, contradictions and ultimately compositions we can find a common place and find it. In this process the greatest possible consensus was created and the wider social alliances which, in our opinion, lead to the best result. The two institutions set up are therefore based on the needs, conditions, data and designs of each university community and each region. So there is also the feasibility study that has been made so much talk about in the committees. Finally, as I said before, the bill gives the signal and philosophy of the government. In other words, the bill has a background, a thinking and makes a proposal for higher education in the country. What now occurred during the committees' discussions in the last few days? The debate over the last few days has highlighted the nakedness of the positions and the lack of the proposals on the part of the Opposition. The opposition didn't see the dialogue, he didn't hear anything. The positions of colleagues from the Officerial Reconciliation and the Democratic Reconciliation have shown precisely that, lack of position and a proposal. They questioned the dialogue that has developed, calling it a pretext, and in some cases they even attacked the leaders of the foundations in the Morphics Committee because people described another reality that they did not like. They even came to claim that students of TEI should become second-class students, depriving them of the right to continue their studies in the updated institutions, thus upgrading their degree, which is provided for in the process. It is clear that the fellow Members of the New Democracy and Democratic Independence are not used to such procedures, and obviously they cannot recognise how democracy is conquered in practice, how consensus is created and how the success of a project is ensured with the agreement of the stakeholders, which was clearly demonstrated during the hearing of the bodies. They are common in the authoritarianism of presidential decrees merging and dismantling schools, such as the draft "ATHENA" that I said, in the client transfer and transfer of teachers without any other purpose, as was done in the Minister of Arvanitopoulos in his office and in the Minister of Loverdou in his office, in 2014, in the redundancies of PES teachers. Here I would like to welcome the clear position of the Minister with regard to the irreversible teachers of primary education, who are a symbolic act of judiciary of the state against people who have been wronged, not only politically, but also with regard to criminal responsibility in the way they were transferred. And I'm stopping. They are accustomed to establishing sections depending on their electoral clientele and are today allegedly cut off to ensure the professional rights of graduates, without accounting for the chaos created by the fault of the previous decades and the unjustified establishment of departments. In the debate in the past few days, the nakedness of counterpopulation has emerged, their existential loneliness. They were found to represent, indeed, at the hearing of the bodies, only themselves and no one else. This is the first time, at least four, about four years, that I have been involved in the procedures of this House, which at the hearing of the bodies has been the greatest possible consensus in a bill that we are discussing. After all, how else does it explain that the entire academic community and local communities agree and want to unify institutions and the opposition says 'no'? The question is rhetorical. Because it doesn't matter what the academic community asks for, what the country needs. The consensus between the New Democracy and the Democratic Reconciliation has been good these days. They are perfectly matched by the opposition to oppose. They're not interested in getting an opinion on the bill and what they're proposing. All they are interested in is how they will come to power to continue with the same tactic. All these years they have learned to share it and see it as a given state of public property and power. There's the complete match. Ladies and gentlemen, by closing the motion, I would like to make a reference to what was originally placed in the difficult days of our country. If we really want and believe in the need for national unity, the right time to demonstrate this is these days, putting forward our proposals and working together so that we never again have tragedies in this place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, too. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Anna Karamanlis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. You will allow me, before I enter the draft law, to stand on the unprecedented national tragedy experienced by our homeland last Monday. Ten days have passed, and the situation remains chaotic for wounded and relatives of missing persons, without a clear answer to the torture questions about the oligopoly and incompetence of those responsible, questions posed by people who have lost their own or their property, people who have felt totally unprotected and alone in the face of destruction. And the Prime Minister had to spend a week visiting Matty. It did, of course, in fact, in a sterile environment, far from the people who mourn and gather their debris, barely to get the obligation out, fearing the outcry of society. It had to be revealed the sad show on the night of the fire, with the Prime Minister talking about the air that he blows, while proved, now, there were dead and people who were drowning in the sea. It took six days for Mr Tsipras to reluctantly assume political responsibility, without any objection. And to think that the same man once called for the resignation of the government for the so-called record of suicides - which proved to be a lie - and called Ministers "implementers of death contracts". Now that the same person is facing the death of innocent, truly victims of an unspeakable disaster, he is hiding behind half the gaps in content. At the time when the murderous fire has shocked Greek society and the international community, the government brings to Parliament the bill for the absorption of the TEI Epirus and the TEI Ionian Islands from the University of Ioannina and the Ionian University respectively. It is an initiative that accurately reflects the basic priority of this government, which is no more than serving micro-political purposes and devotion to party planning. For the New Democracy, the strengthening of technological education is a project and a central pillar of our positions on education. In a country with unthinkable rates of youth unemployment, in a country that bleeds, compelled its most dynamic and productive piece to look for its fate abroad, it is imperative that higher education be linked to the labour market and production, that this current be blocked through which we lose national capital. This is a national objective for us and technological education is a valuable tool for achieving it. And we want technological education to become a primary and conscious choice for young children and not a last resort solution. How does the draft law under discussion serve the principle of upgrading and strengthening technological education? Unfortunately, in our view, it does not form part of a single policy strategy for the development of higher education and does not fall within any point with the needs of Greek society and the economy. Instead of giving a solution to existing problems, it opens up new fronts. All the reordering of the academic map with the spearhead of the policy on TEI mergers with universities becomes fragmentary and obeys local and syndicate logic, customer service and cynic vote. We have asked you, Minister, and in committee we have not received any answers. Is there any overall planning to reform the map of higher education, or is it all considered on a case-by-case basis? Are there clear, transparent and objective rules governing the process of absorbing TEIs from universities? We have heard about dialogue between stakeholders. We have, however, heard nothing about strict, predetermined and unified academic criteria. In a report from the subcommittee of the 2016 famous National Dialogue - signed by the Minister - it refers to the role of technological institutions that TEIs should either evolve into universities of applied sciences or be integrated into university schools. And it is underlined in the report - which Mr Gavroglou is signing - that this type of sorting could not take place before the data are processed and that specific evaluation criteria are adopted. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Anna Karamanlis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Eventually, what data have you processed and what criteria have you adopted? Your vision of technological education is exhausted in the conceivable abolition of TEIs and their absorption by universities. The whole project is characterized by curiosity, which is reflected in the establishment of the new departments. New schools and departments shall be created through fast track procedures without their establishment accompanied by the necessary feasibility studies and without requiring the call. Schools are created with only one department, as in the case of the School of Information and Telecommunications Applications in Ioannina. Parts with relevant scientific fields are included in different schools without any scientific logic and without any detailed justification, such as the Departments of Accountability and Psychology. Technical guidance sections with positive assessments and high absorption on the labour market are replaced by theoretical sections. I am referring to the Technology and Audio Teaching that is being abolished to establish the Department of National Ombudsmanship. Also, the way you decide to abolish some and establish other departments, in many cases it raises questions, such as in the case of the new Department of Accounting and Finance, based in the city of Preveza, which is part of the Faculty of Economics and Administrative Sciences. Inevitably, it goes through our minds whether this option is linked to the proclamation of the Minister of Finance as an honorary doctor on May 29, 2018. It is noted that Mr. Chakalotos is from Preveza. I'm filing the press release that came out of the TEI the next day. [[At this point, the Member, Anna Karamanlis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Another point which, in our view, highlights the manipulation of the project. At the University of Ioannina a new Department of Accounting is set up, based in the city of Ioannina, which is part of a health science school. The Western Greece TEI has been operating since 1996 a Department of Logotherapy. The graduates of both departments will have the same professional rights? Also, as far as we learn, this TEI opposes its absorption from the University of Patras. In this case, as in the case of Crete, what are you going to do? What are the single academic criteria that I have followed? Other example: Members, such as the Department of Business Administration, are included in sections with a non-associated scientific field - Department of Translation and Interpretation. Let me not comment on the overlapping of objects. In committee, of course, you have advised us, Minister, that as Members we are not experts to talk about them. I'm sorry, but this is our job here, to exercise control over your mistakes and omissions. And let there be experts among us, professors and teachers, who, as long as they have a more comprehensive view, such as the parliamentarian of SYRIZA, as you used to say, who spoke in detail about the Translation and Interpretation Department. I'm presenting the relevant quote to the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Anna Karamanlis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] All this, therefore, does not show any planning and structured plan, but rather a scorching plan, with the aim of maintaining political balance. I know you don't like the term, but for us it describes exactly the procedure followed. And to tell you further that it is much more disturbing when it is applied as a tactical rather than when it occurs. In maintaining balance, therefore, there is also a reference to the incorporation of teaching staff in TEIs and universities by way of derogation from any applicable provision. We have also given you the question of professional rights. Should not such an effort, as you say, will enhance technological education, make sure that a clear reference is made to the professional rights of graduates, but also to a substantial solution to a chronic issue? And stop talking to previous governments. You've been ruling for four years, you have absolute responsibility. Stop that candy that's melted. Sections are abolished and other sections come and it makes sense to create confusion and doubt, possibly disputes about regulated professional rights. Problems may also arise in matching the new sections with the international educational reality. What kind of upgrade is this when professional rights enter under the carpet and go unnecessarily into the future? We have stressed the omission of the institutional advisory bodies in the absorption process, as is apparent from the absence of the PPP. It is clear that you have put it quarantine and yesterday in the committee you have again tried to deceive it. I would remind you once again that you have legislated to give its opinion on the abolition of a higher education institution. So I guess her point of view is very important. But only, as it turns out, when he agrees with you. That is why we have not seen in the explanatory statement any reference to the PPP assessments of the institutions being absorbed, nor have we ever heard the opinion of the principle of the whole operation. As far as the research centres referred to in Articles 7 and 14 are concerned, no one disputes the crucial importance of research in our country's development effort and the emphasis to be placed on it, provided that the purpose of research structures is clear and that they form part of national planning. These initiatives, of course, do not show that they come to fill a research gap, nor does the added value they will offer in the existing research activity become clear. The Greek Researchers' Association in the Committee's discussion argued that the establishment of new research centres does not serve a national research strategy. They create overlap in the thematics, strengthen fragmentation instead of synergy and require new resources. And speaking of resources, it does not show how the funding and sustainability of these centres are guaranteed. Provision is made for their grant from the regular budget when the already operating research centres receive a grant only for the payroll of regular staff and cover all their costs from research programmes. How will the university manage to ensure the necessary funds for the equipment and operation of research centres, it remains an unanswered question. In addition to the provisions relating to the abolition of the two TEIs, the bill contains a number of articles which have never been consulted and no one understood the need to vote in the Summer Departments. We have tabled our disagreement with this problematic parliamentary practice, so that the Secretary-General can answer us, not least, that nothing has happened, as he said, because these articles are in a positive direction and have the consent of the large majority of this House. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the government's perception of parliamentary procedures and public debate. I shall mention, for example, Article 23, which is a feature of the clandestineness with which you are legislating. Not a year has your presidential decree on the organisation and operation of preschools and primary schools has been closed and you come to amend almost all of his articles, with the aim of extinguishing the phrase'school advisor' and replacing with the words 'train coordinator'. The institution of the school advisor fell victim to your ideology to quickly hit centralism. And now you're transferring all its responsibilities to the super-instrumental issues of the Directorates of Education. Structures of hydro-heads, non-functional, away from school reality and the needs of teachers! In the same pattern and Article 24, which stipulates that the Minister will be able to regulate the teaching courses and hours per grade in general. Over-concentration of powers even on purely pedagogical issues! I come to Articles 31 to 33, which provide for the division of the Secretariat-General for Lifelong Learning, with a direct effect of creating another Secretary-General's position, of course along with the bag of consultants, associates and posters. But also loyal to your customer logic in the public administration, you create two addresses in the newly established General Secretariat of New Generation and an autonomous section in the post of one director in the single secretariat. In this case, mergers and absorptions are obviously not working. It is another proof that you are facing the public as a party spoil, as the "Golden Cow" that can feed your party clientele. Only, you know, that generosity is not for free. The spirit of the days pays for it by the afflicted and exterminated Greek taxpayer, whose strengths have long been exhausted. The bill under discussion marks the eruption of technological instruction as a thread. Your main concern is to prevent you to inaugurate the new university departments and cut ribbons, anticipating micropolitical benefits. With a glance at the pollen, you've taken the hammer of your election. The country does not, however, owe local parties nor to guilds, who are trying to flatter and mold. The country owes its young children, its students and its students. What should be offered to them in this case are strong educational institutions with an emphasis on technological education and not supermarket universities with uncertain prospects. Because today you may mock ears and become seemingly pleasurable to some, but you drive these children into degrees, which in practice may prove to be a empty shirt. I shall conclude, of course, with an amendment concerning the State Secretary for Sport. It no longer gives rise to any impression of another amendment to sport, fragmented, rough, photographic. Mr Vassiliou, after unsuccessfully spending a whole summer as a mediator for television rights between homeless TV PAIs and having failed in his attempt to reduce the Super League teams, early August remembered to legislate. He doesn't legislate on field violence. In this respect, it is still awaiting the European Commission's conclusion. He doesn't legislate to finally bring in an integrated sports law. He can wait, since January 2015, and let him be announced every so long, having become a joke. He again came to pass amendments - photographs. Another amendment was tabled, which renders the legislative work of his predecessor, Mr. Kontonis, as it amends a law brought by his own government, Mr.4326/2015. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. This is another amendment against what fanatically pushed as ideology for Greek football, SYRIZA. When the predecessor of Mr Vassiliadis, Mr. Kontonis, passed the provision of Article 5, according to which the judges of the NCA would be regular, three-year term of non-renewable and only by choice from the list of judges from the Heads of the Prosecutors and the Prosecutors, Mr. Kontonis said: "The arrangements of this article aim to consolidate neutrality, impartiality, transparency and openness, as well as to strengthen the necessary confidence of society in the institutions of justice and in the field of sport". And that's what Mr. Vassilidis changes. I would like to ask for this amendment by Mr Vassiliou, because it also has regulations to which we are positive, to divide it into two articles. In some articles we are positively committed and not. For this reason, please do not come as a single amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u6	I shall consult with Mr Vassiliou and with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u7	Good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, too. The reason is the special speaker of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr. Charia Kefalidou. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that under the Rules of Procedure, the list of speakers has been closed after the two rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u9	Will the Minister speak with the rapporteurs?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u10	Usually that's what's happening.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u11	I will speak after all the rapporteurs and special speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u12	Mrs. Kefalidou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, it is often the guilty one who is on the great catastrophe, the first thing he thinks of is building an alibi. When the world burns around it, when existence gives its place to nonexistence, the guilty one, not bearing the weight of what he himself caused, hides himself first. It's the instantaneous automatic reaction of self-preservation that leads him to something like that. Immediately afterwards, his conscience comes, his education, all that he learned by growing up in an organized society. This is the critical moment when the guilty one is separated from the criminal in the tough battle between me and us. It is precisely where the rule of law sets out the dividing line that distinguishes crime from crime. It is where the person is shown the intention, who the acceptance of the weight of his act is. When the whole country lamentes so much wrongful souls and the Prime Minister of the country, with this unexplained government unfortunately, he is setting up a tent of declaring personnel from his responsibility, when he is responsible for the dead, people who cry over the atrocities of life, and he himself is not to blame, when the only thing is the communication management that will keep them in power, when at this difficult time the government's primary concern is to search or - if you want - to build on the need for enemies, asymmetric threats and other such threats, when the struggle is being given not to save what is saved, not to unite, not just to hide incompetence, but to hide incompetence, responsibility, and to squeeze chairs at any cost, then we are talking about crime that goes on to the guilty perpetents. There are dilemmas. The number of victims increases daily. The destruction is incalculable and the casualties are tragic. What can you say to this world? And since the expression of sadness and sympathy to their pain frightens you, because it's a confession of responsibility, it's a confession of incompetence, it's a confession of incompetence and it seems inadequate and so little, you're choosing the lie, the settling scene, the denial of reality, the assurance that the state is here that it's not the fault of nothing, it's all done it right, it all worked a clock. It is our bad root, climate change, arson. Here, government ministers are looking for a mistake. But one thing is certain: responsibility is nowhere. Only the residents who live in Matty found tragic mistakes in construction. But not a single apology! Sorry is defeat. I'm sorry. It's an admission. Sorry is a resignation of the chair game. Apologies to SYRIZA are not forgiven. And since they cannot apologise, the Prime Minister has assumed political responsibility for vacant content and expects everything to be forgotten. It is at least disgraceful, but somehow they are trying to hide their responsibilities, allying the responsibilities of the mistakes with the pile of young people. The government has informed that it will assist the affected. And the streets will build so that they don't end up in a dead end and they become graves and it will ease their pain with a pentokill for beginning and prolonging tax declarations and 20% of the premium on the scores of the Greeks. And because it's not unexplainable, but there's a lot of social sensitivity, it'll relieve the victims' relatives with a position in the public. And move on, look forward. First August today. We return to everyday life with another draft law that this time concerns a combination of the Epirus and Ionian TEIs with the respective universities. In this context, with a burnt smell, the present draft law comes in the construction of an unexistent, fake regularity in its place that is destroyed from 2015 until today. That's how you by yourself passed the separating line of the guilty person by the criminal. Ladies and gentlemen, in this unscrupulous national tragedy, the Ministry of Education in the midst and without any reason for urgency, chooses to discuss the draft law 'University of Ioannina, Ionian University and other provisions'. Since Friday we've been working without stopping any minute. We do not even have time to understand what has been said at meetings. It seems urgent, but I have to tell you I'm embarrassed. I am ashamed that such days should have other priorities in this House, we should have a yes evening working, but for other purposes. I'm ashamed that this theater of irrationality sets normalities to the beads. Ladies and gentlemen, I also asked the committee, and I did not receive a reply: why so much has it been? We have just reformed the merger of the Athens and Piraeus TEIs and created the new University of Western Attica. This year, for the first time, the kids will enter with their computers at this new university. When did you get to make measurable conclusions? When did you evaluate positively and negatively the operation of the new project and are you in a hurry to implement it elsewhere? For the Ministry of Education, of course, all these are trivial details. He continues experimentation in the field of higher education with populist policies that undermine the quality of the public university. Above all, it is the preservation of the reality of the fast reality, of the regularity, of the baptized flagrant bills on higher education that have the main feature of their sloppyness, no matter if all this is in the country's unprecedented state of affairs. To this end, it is perhaps a few times that SYRIZA also has a strategic plan of regularity, which imposes on the Saturday turf to also serve some other purposes, completely irrelevant to the educational process and the upgrading of higher education. It's extremely intelligent: with one fort, two forts. And those who benefit from the draft law are at the service of the government and show the continuity of the state. He's there, ready to serve a virtual regularity. Minister, the anguish of the government today should be expressed in substantial bills, indicating that the state learns from its mistakes, which they have paid for with their lives and their property, thousands of our fellow citizens. There would be some sense in rushing, even sloppyness would be forgiven there. The whole process of dismantling TEIs, instead of being the subject of national dialogue, is again behind the scenes, between the leaderships of universities and the Ministry of Education, in the logic of interservices where the Ministry promises everything, abundantly, abundantly of teachers. With such materials, gentlemen of the government, you build a future that you think will serve you, because the government sees a lot ahead. He goes over the next defeat and looks at the future, the next election. Unfortunately, we don't learn anything. The country's higher education, on the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, is designed with a view to localist ruptures in municipalities to ensure party influence in local communities, re-election of mayors and a certain employment and movement of the local market. This altar is offered as a sacrifice tomorrow of higher education. The present draft law did not require a scientific study on how to merge the Epirus and Ionian TEIs with the respective universities of Ioannina and Ionian and the single criteria for the merger were required. The method is known. It is a card, decisions on a case-by-case basis according to exchanges, depending on the agreements between the Ministry and the Republican authorities of each university. The result is every abolition of TEI and separate law. Finally, this seems to serve the strategic planning of the Ministry. I was gonna tell you I'm taking your hat off. It is an excellent sample for party credit: diffusion, influence, enforcement. This is the trio of recipe success. The hidden logic found in this draft law is how to gossip - you did not like the term, but that is the truth - as many as possible - teachers, local rulers and actors - and to baptize this law "embled" to baptize the services of "social policy" of a government that appears to me to be sitting next to the citizen and his needs. I'm saying it again. Haven't you learned anything from previous years? It is also a self-criticist comment, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u14	What did you learn? From what we see you have learned nothing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u15	Obviously we have learned, ladies and gentlemen. Since my introduction, you should have basic logic to understand that there is a great deal of self-criticism in what I am saying. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Don't interrupt me, please. All the rest for you is superfluous for today, regardless of whether this will be the case in front of us in the forthcoming international rankings of our universities, in the absorption of our graduates from the labour market. You see that SYRIZA's policy is running out in two years' time, at the present time, with the limit of the next elections and tomorrow, in the next elections. Intermediate time doesn't exist. After all, Mr Tsipras - you reminded us of this - is only forty-four years old. For us in the Movement of Change, the single area of higher education and research means synergies and means networking between universities and research centres with a look at the future, tomorrow, in the day after tomorrow, where the country will be in after ten years. So the future requires all research centres to be supervised by one authority and to be governed by the same institutional framework. For example, why should two research centres be set up at the University of Ioannina? Don't look. The answer is contained in those who serve. Why is a university research centre founded at the University of Ioannina and the Ionian University? The answers here have names. What needs are those that cannot be met by existing research centres and institutes or, more rightly, which needs cannot be served by existing ones? Minister, because within so much you have said to the committees, you have reiterated in a lymphatic way 'where is your proposal, where is the proposal of the Democratic Alliance?', I am sorry to say that, despite the persistent flirting you are doing to us, you are not following the Democratic Incorporation and the Change Movement at all. Here are our positions, tabled in the national dialogue, in the forums, in our conference, in every opportunity that you can give us and you already have them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u16	Can you give them to me?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u17	No, I won't. You already have them. If you don't have them, ask me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u18	Why don't you give them to me?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u19	Because this patch "I never have the seats and I ask you to give them to me" surprises me how informed you are and how much you are following your subject matter, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u20	Let's just say I'm not watching it. Will you give them to me?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u21	I'm giving it to you right now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u22	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u23	So you are depleting all your placement into material remarks, because you do not actually have any answers. The seats are here. I submitted them to you today. It's all known, all documented. This draft law - you know better than anyone, you are academic, most colleagues in this Chamber have the great fortune of being academic - we know that it does not bring TEI closer to universities. What makes the universities swallow "amosta" TEIs, abolishing them, without any plan, other than arrangements and steps. There is no provision for technical training. It bothered you very much to point it out to you to the whole of the counterpopulation. There is no provision, therefore, for technical education, but also for the role to be played in the economy and in the development of the country. As far as the excellent two-year vocational training programmes are concerned, I have pointed this out to you, and I now say that these are optional. They do not commit the HEIs, to create them, and therefore technical post-training is limited to public IEKs, which, unfortunately, will not work and, of course, people will turn to private IEKs. And that's the provision, according to SYRIZA, to the weak, because mostly kids of populaces will be forced to make these choices, to learn an art, to finally pay with the crumbs you give as an allowance, while in a normal country with social sensitivities it should be free, not to say that we should be subsidising it, because needs are registered. It has already been recorded that we need a trained technical capacity and these needs are huge and they are not being met today. The policy of merging TEIs with universities, such as this draft law, is promoted, without being part of a general long-term educational and development planning, with the absence of valid and reliable, according to international practice, studies, with secret consultations only with the interested, local, parliamentary and self-government authorities, by circumventing all the institutions and by not clarifying whether the integration of TEI staff will be based on open crises, so as not to exclude new very reliable scientists, when we have such a dramatic phenomenon Brain drain - and you know how worthwhile their work is and how worthy the emerging sectors of science that they are engaged in - and, of course, with clear anti-civil and anti-constitutional regulations. You suffice another rated upgrade, without any reflection. We still do not get to us because, apart from everyone else, we think it is foolishness, another mockery of citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, the very principle of merger seems to call into question the usefulness of technical education and the role of the economy and the development of the country. The dispersion and spatial distribution provided for in this draft law may make it difficult, rather than facilitate, the necessary shocks and synergies between scientific disciplines and specialities, and it is certain that they multiply administrative complexity without the necessary resources. I would like to say to you that I have here the conclusion of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament - and I would ask colleagues to take a look at it - which says neither too much nor much that the conversion of an existing institute of the technology sector into an appropriate institution of the university sector is an excellent regulation, which in favour of which requires adequate foundation. The automatic transformation of TEIs into universities, on the other hand, can create many other problems, unnecessarily increase the number of universities, create cognitive and other overlaps, lead to secondary institutions, which will not be able to meet the needs of students, the social and productive needs of the country. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need one more minute, Mr. President. "The integration of TEIs" - I read from the findings of the Scientific Committee - "to a university institution is equitable with its conversion into a university". "A such inclusion" - they say - "use documentation, establish rules, evaluate the institutions' existing structures and staff, arrangements for the time and the more specific transition procedures, in order not to cancel technological higher education". And of course - we told you from the outset - nothing in the bill is costing you the establishment of these two university departments, beyond the responsibility-sharing benefits. But this - I regret to say - is your logic, because you believe that this is the way to secure votes. This can help you. It does not, however, serve the academic community, does not serve students, does not serve the parents they pay, does not serve tomorrow's own professionals, who will realize sooner or later that they ate free in their most creative years. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I have asked for a minute further.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u24	You've already gotten over it. Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u25	Thank you. It's a big bill. I don't know how the process goes. To conclude, I insist on the philosophy, logic and feasibility of this bill, because, no matter how much you want to convince us that it is emblematic, there are always branches of syndicate micropolitical. Ladies and gentlemen, this is where the world is burning and the SYRIZA - ANEL Government looks to suit old and newborn friends. I fear that not even this draft law that we are discussing today escapes that logic. I'm ashamed of why you chose such a circumstance to bring it. I'm embarrassed that you work for tertiary education. I am ashamed of the mortal hopes you share with thousands of candidate students, with a degree, I fear, that in the near future it will have no objection at all. Thank you for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Kefalidou. The reason is the special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Christos Pappas, for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u27	Mr President, there are constantly amendments coming and there will have to be even a three-way circle of rapporteurs so that we can put ourselves in place. We have just had an amendment on which we need to put forward. I will not get away from what previous speakers have done, because today's sitting is the second post-fire meeting, particularly the murderous fire in Matti. It has been almost a week and there are now special political developments but also revealing the uncertainties, omissions, the responsibilities of government actors, government and also of service actors, and above all there is this growing wave of anger of the Greek people, which, believe me - you see it, the government - is not manageable. The Prime Minister is at the expense of this climate, at the expense of the anger of the people and of his responsibilities, and I would also say the completely wrong communication management on the part of the members of the government. Everyone at this time said what he wanted, whatever was going down to his head. This is what the undocumented Minister of National Defence, who went to Eye with his retarding mercenaries of hundreds of thousands of euros to move the finger to the inhabitant and say to him: "You don't know what you're saying. You're lying. I know myself." We're not just gonna stand by this. We will stand by the fact that you have hidden your own responsibilities and at the same time the tragic results of the murder fire in the first few hours. With total lack of ethos, I would say, and consciousness of the dramatic hours of the tragedy, the Prime Minister was dragged last Friday, under this burden, into a nineteen-minute monologue, without saying a single apologies for the dead, the injured, the dozens of missing persons, the incalculable damage and damage to property, homes and the natural environment. So the Prime Minister has dragged himself into taking political responsibility. Tsipras said: 'I take political responsibility'. So what? What happened? You quit? Did you confess what you had to confess 'yes, we are useless, we cannot manage natural disasters'? It's proud. The entire Greek people see it. The government cannot handle crises and natural disasters. I do not want to be a disciple of other problems for our country, but I am sure that the government cannot handle any crisis and I mean it. Today we have August 1st. Five months have passed, and the two Greek soldiers remain captive, hostage to Turkish prisons. Do you want anything else on this? With this and with the murderous fire in Matti, it has now clearly appeared to each of us, at a heavy cost, unfortunately, that there is no effectiveness in protecting the Greek citizen. Okay, the government doesn't say he quit, he doesn't give up. To tell you the truth, and I see no resignation on the horizon. If you had said "yes, we made mistakes" or said the other "we were unprepared" or said "we didn't have time to do anything better than what we received, but from here we will try, above all, and above all we apologize", you would have soothed - you would not have eliminated - the anger of the Greek people. Instead of looking at this, we see that lying is overflowing on your part, the government is literally playing the courgettes on the incinerators of innocent victims, all the issues that have to do with the critical two-hour time since the start of the fire and beyond political responsibility, are now visible that there is criminal responsibility, and that should be investigated. So instead of doing everything I said, the government is setting up a communication show. Tsipras from Bosnia is urgently moving to coordination in Halandri, with all paradoxical ministers, police chiefs, fire brigades, etc. And while this coordination in Halandri was notified at 20:40 by the EMCDDA to pick up the dead, who had found on the spot - something they named after firemen - the Syrians with Tsipras did exactly the same thing the Soviets did with Chernobyl. They hid in the first hours the existence of the dead. Hybris! Known to everyone, the post of the Minister of Health, Mr. Polakis, the infamous post against all those who have spread the information - and journalistic, if you like, information - that we have dead, as well as Mr. Toska's post...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u28	This was last year's post.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u29	I didn't interrupt you, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u30	To tell you the truth...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u31	Mr President, I do not want to interrupt when I speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u32	Please, Mr. Stephoe, don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u33	It's your obligation, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u34	Yes, of course. Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u35	Mr. Toska's post, "there was no time for an evacuation order. I am not resigning." Then he told us that he resigned, but that the Prime Minister did not accept the resignation. “I’m not quitting. Eye was a huge arbitrary!" So what's he telling us? The most incompetent, the most populous to say, as the world says? - A useless Citizen's Minister is putting responsibility on arbitrary responsibility. So it says that these are the arbitrary people, that it's the people in the eye who burned down, that the Greek state doesn't protect you, if you have arbitrary. And the Greek state a few months ago, the SYRIZA Government, arranges to legitimize all arbitrary and Mr. Spirtz by television, too, gives instructions how to legitimize arbitrary - you know where? - to Matty. So the real "inventor" - within introductory terms the word - is not the idiot who burned wood and grass with such wind in Artificial City. The real "inventor" is SYRIZA. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] It hurts you. Listen to this, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u36	Please don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u37	Tsipras arrives in the co-ordination on July 23, and he literally asks if the ducks fly. A show is being set up - let me have this expression - because that was the conclusion that came out in the eyes of the Greek people. It's come to our conclusion that we had a terrified Prime Minister. He looked on his face. And not only was that enough, but we then had the sea at the Red Limanaki, but also here near us, in Glyfada to stir up bodies. We had the wounded to end up in hospitals, we had the firefighters finding other charred bodies in the damaged houses in the burned Matti and the government doing the second communication show, to "interview" Mr. Janakopoulos, the Minister of State, along with the Chiefs of Police, Firefighting etc., along with Mr. Toska and say "we did everything well". Whoever saw this interview was not only angry, but also reached the following conclusions: Firstly, they could not eradicate the fires, but they have no responsibility. They didn't evacuate the area, but they don't have a responsibility. They had the information about the maximum risk that day, but they have no responsibility. Well, let me tell you that it's not government. This is a limited company, a company of real killers of the Greek people! And after all this, what has now extinguished popular anger and indignation, this tsunami that will lure the government and SYRIZA into the predicted political non-existence whenever elections are held, is Tsipras' visit to Eye. It was morning - morning and instead of asking, if you want, on a personal level, consciously there, on the spot apologies - but you must have a sense of conscience to apologize - he gave a performance. He went morning, at dawn - he seems from the pictures in Matti - without warning channels etc., having only his own and posting after a few hours on Twitter this photo, which is the majesty of the left, the majesty of SYRIZA. It's the picture -- to find her here on my papers -- which I would say is the best picture that Tsipras took to post her on Twitter. It's the photo where it's with five or six out-of-date people. Tsipras says: "I visited this morning the place of the tragedy, I talked to citizens, engineers, soldiers, firefighters and volunteers. Undoubted grief, but also unrespectful respect for those who gave their lives and blah-blah-blah-blah”. Who are the citizens? Freedom of Hadjigeorgiou, Director of the Board of Governors, Mr.Janakopoulou. Yanna Pepe or Pepe, Director of the Tsipra Office. Below, Tsipra's security men. In a sterile environment, 11 escort cars went to Matty Tsipras. She was afraid to go to Matty, while last year, she was happy to go to East Attica, photographed, went with a helicopter, congratulated, because they didn't have a dead man. That's why you're hiding the dead. That's why you're hiding the wounded. That's why you're hiding missing persons. I'm filing it for the Minutes, so there's for those who want to see it. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] After all this, we see government leaders being lured and SYRIZA showing a picture of a collapsed party as a submerged ship. They all leave and "The save one himself." In Samos, as soon as the day before yesterday, you lost a thousand eight hundred more. It is the Facebook page with a thousand eight hundred followers, the page "Friends of Samos". They say that "Today we are counting hours on our page. From tomorrow you will see a less page of SYRIZA".
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u38	This page is fake! It's not SYRIZA's page! I know that well.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u39	Yeah, it's all true to you. They're your friends. They continue "Because after all these years at last we realized that we have no reason to exist, we will empty your corner. On behalf of these ideas that we represent, we take on any political responsibility we have here to give up! We hope that all the Syrians will understand it. That is why we are telling you in full knowledge of the situation that we have realised today, we are useless! Hello!’. I'm presenting it for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u40	Mr President, I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u41	One Facebook page and two vice mayors had the emotiveness to close, and the vice mayors to resign. And all of you are thick-blooded political hardships! So it is true that SYRIZA is in an absolute sepsis. Both voters and their percentages are falling apart. But is that the reality? Although SYRIZA shows this situation, things may be completely different and perhaps SYRIZA can withstand. He'll last, because they have a very good ally, a political crutch. And I don't mean ANELs and their graphic president. SYRIZA has a political crutch. It has indirect support - and I say it with complete knowledge and understand it - and let those who do not understand it, understand it - have a political helmet, because in the first week that it was hot, I would say it literally, Mr Mitsotakis has kept low tons, thereby supporting Mr Tsipras and the government group. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr. Mitsotakis woke up yesterday with his interview. When he saw this priority, the wave of wrath and when, as a political vulture, Mr. Mitsotakis, as a hammerman, saw that he would have party benefits from this wave of wrath, provocative yesterday - and today his people are speaking and speaking - he tried to take advantage of the climate, namely 'brows'. Mr Mitsotakis, with his attitude and his MPs from last Monday to today, proved once again that New Democracy and SYRIZA are Asian parties. It's the teratogenicity of postpopulation. He nourishes one another, New Democracy by SYRIZA. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. The Greek people, as in 2007, as in 2018, are unfortunately in the same spectator's work. New Democracy and SYRIZA are unable to protect the life, property and security of the Greek people. They're helpless and irresponsible. No one takes responsibility. No one gets the weight of his wrong manipulations. It was 11 years since 2007 that Mr Mitsotakis said yesterday 'Yes, we were wrong in 2007'. He said it today. Hypocrites! Then it was the wind. Now it is the unregulated construction, town planning, arbitrary construction. We know who's arbitrary. Actual arbitrary is only forty-four years young people who, from school squabbles and fifteen-member presidents, evolved into power squabbles and prime ministers. Real arbitrary are the six-month political prisoners, the most appropriate, the golden spoon of power in the mouth, with German nannies, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u42	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u43	This is what the people see and the people will do. His rage is not only rage, but it is also hope for the future. Mr President, I conclude by saying this because I consider it my duty. In the face of the mud wave of the various media, of the various newspapers, which exist against our Movement, I have an obligation to say these words about all these golden people, the Greek nationalists who have run from the first moment in Eastern and Western Attica and on fire and on a social offer. I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying this: when you do not have to spend the month, and the last five, I put it on petrol to go and share food in New Makri and in Matti, that says something. When you see kids of the Golden Dawn, who at home have no to eat, they don't have a pound of pasta, they don't have to share food with our people and by leaving they don't hold a bag, a pound of potatoes to take for their family, it says even more.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u44	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u45	You're mumbling, you say yours. And that, ladies and gentlemen, I've seen it with my eyes on every distribution in every quarter. These are the Golden Dawn kids and it's an honor to be exactly the future and you know it. Our future belongs.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u46	Tell them in court.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u47	You'll have courts very soon, especially and criminal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u48	Mr. Pappa, please, you'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u49	Say it to reveal!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u50	And if the President-in-Office allows dialogue, there will be dialogue now. Is that right? I haven't interrupted you, nor have I given up the climate.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u51	No dialogue. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u52	You...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u53	Mr. Pavlidis, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u54	I said what I wanted to say, and I said it, and you will never touch me to say it, neither systolic nor right-wing nor left-wing. Because you're the same, you're the party of the political parties. You're the same, the Greek people get it. It is the party of political parties and the Golden Dawn, the popular movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u55	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u56	And merciful!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u57	Mr. Pavlidis!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u58	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u59	What do you want to talk about, Mr. Stephoe?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u60	Allow me for a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u61	Here, you got him.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u62	Mr President, in order to assess the credibility of this speech, I will quote two major lies. The first is that Mr Polakis was posted last year on a fire in which we did not have any victims. I am absolutely certain of what I am saying. Also, with regard to the Samos OM that he mentioned and for which he said they leave SYRIZA members is a constructed page, fascists, like the many that exist in our country. It's a fascist page...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u63	We've done it! You've got a fantasy!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u64	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u65	Mr. Stephoe, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u66	In any case, for restoring the truth, that is only the reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u67	Get this back. And you will go for slandering, as INDEPENDENT and PONTIKI went. Take this back...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u68	Please, Mr. Pappa. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u69	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u70	Please delete the insults from the Minutes...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u71	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds. It can't be here, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u72	Excuse me. I'm gonna ask you not to do any sort of segregation. He said this website isn't real. It's his opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u73	Yeah, but he added something else.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u74	We must not have a debate on this now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u75	But he added something else, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u76	I said delete the phrases that are personally directed at you and on both sides.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u77	It was personally addressed to me, Mr President. It feeds me personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u78	Delete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u79	It feeds me personally. He's going to erase what he said. I don't accept it!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u80	Mr President, I have commented on two things.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u81	I think, Mr. Stephoff, you didn't intend...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u82	You will also give me the floor, Mr President, for a minute. I'm entitled to it, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u83	I'll give it to you, Mr. Pappa. But, Mr Stephoe, I do not think you intend to hurt Mr Pappa. You said what you said. The rest...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u84	Mr President, I have commented on two things which are lies. If Mr Pappas does not know it, he will say 'I do not know'. That's exactly what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u85	Anything else, erase.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u86	So you have again proved yourself to be "e" with "e" because I would say "e" - all of you - and you together - that you are great massists of lies.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u87	Mr. Poppa, please don't report personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u88	You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u89	No report personally, we can't have a conversation like this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u90	So I told you that there is a wave of mud, a wave of slander.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u91	You're saying... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u92	Calm down! You're in critical age, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u93	Mr. Pappa, please. Don't address yourself personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u94	I'm the quietest man in here. I'm younger than you anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u95	So you said and repeated the words of the slander that travels through the Internet and through some newspapers and also international news agencies, that Golden Dawn is messing with burns. That's what you said! And I'm asking you, then...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u96	I admit I said this, but I'm talking about publications.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u97	So I'm asking you...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u98	You're welcome, Mr. Stephoe. I didn't give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u99	You don't get that back.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u100	...and I'm talking about publications.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u101	Well, I, too, Steph, I'm talking about publications. And I'm talking about what's going on and saying you're a pitiful liar and you're gonna pay for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u102	Mr. Pappa, please. This isn't a TV show. We have to ask why.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u103	I would like to stop, Mr President, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u104	We are asking for the floor on the Rules of Procedure and they give us the floor. But there are no television fights allowed here in the House. I'm saying that for everyone. I'm not talking about you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u105	The truth had to be restored, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u106	When a dialogue of this kind takes place, the Rules of Procedure do not allow it. The debate is being held through the Bureau. In other words, you are addressing the Bureau alone, not the Member in question, not to say names. The next speaker is the rapporteur for the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Ioannis Delis. Please, Mr. Deli, calm down, let the tons fall.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with today's bill at the Epirus TEI and the Ionian TEI are abolished and join the University of Ioannina and the Ionian University respectively, and it also includes several arrangements in its second place for all education and research. For the University of Ioannina and the Ionian University now, this is the second stop on the road opened by the University of Western Attica. In other words, this is another step in the formulation of the new map of higher education, its new planning, as they call it. There are, of course, also the next steps in the mergers of HSY and the rest of the country. All these evolving absorptions of TEIs by universities, in addition to the obvious reduction in state expenditure, which is the main objective of all the memoranda, come mainly to serve the needs of closer links between TEIs and enterprises within the framework of regional and sectoral capitalist planning, which is a key strategic objective both of the OECD and of the European Union. This is the real meaning of the term'single area of higher education', as now known throughout the European Union, that strategy for the ever more effective contribution of higher education to capitalist development, that is to say the increase in the profitability of business groups. The project of this reorder of higher education in our country was launched by Mrs Diamantopoulou of PASOK, to get after the baton Mr Arvanitopoulos of New Democracy by the project "ATHENA". These designs then did not go any further after they encountered great reactions, so that SYRIZA would now come to higher education as well as those that tried and failed to implement its predecessors, proving that he knows and cooks and serves better anti-grass measures in education and everywhere. Here one might say: “And why should these reforms of higher education institutions not be carried out? Where is the evil?" The JRC responds: Depends on the criterion, from which they are dictated. The criterion and motivation are the interests of students, people and society in general? Or is the basic criterion of government legislation like today the interests of business groups and their own development? The Government claims that the Ionian University and the University of Ioannina are thus becoming powerfully competitive, that they will all benefit from the changes, that the development of local society will be strengthened. But let's see what the bill itself says: The Epirus TEI from the University of Ioannina - and the Ioannian University - are being established schools, such as the Agricultural School, or continue in new form as well as university departments. However, no matter how much one searches the bill, there will be no word for their funding, for the necessary infrastructure they need, since they are upgraded, as the government tells us. And how convincing are the Minister's statements to finance them, given the underfunding of education, according to the medium-term adopted by SYRIZA recently in order to catch up to the huge surpluses of the state budget? And for the staff of the new institution, educational and other, in Yannina and the Ionian University, is there any aid provided in the bill? Absolutely nothing. The existing one will just be recycled and reordered. And not only that, but the flexible working relationship of teachers and other staff is further expanding, the categorisation of all staff is deepening and its working and wage rights are differentiated. And we ask: How will new curricula be supported? What do you teach with? What rooms? What labs? With what special scientific and auxiliary staff? Let's go to the students now. Will the bill reduce the cost of study or strengthen student care? But the bill doesn't even refer to them. Will the unemployment of graduates be reduced and will one find work on the subject of rights studies? Will the degree be sufficient to find a job, or will they continue to require postgraduate certificates, training extremely expensive and so much more? The government bill we are discussing neither can nor does it want to respond to all of this. And not just that. Not only does the future of today's students and TEIs that are being abolished, not even of their former graduates, but it categorizes even more degrees, graduates and departments, creating graduates and graduates of many speeds, five-year, four-year, old TEIs, colleges, as well as the new two-year training centres starting for PES graduates. The great-worker's joy, that is, in order to choose cheap workers with appropriate skills from a wide, wide range of graduates and not from graduates who all have integrated studies and the same structured working rights. After all, he is for the big businessmen and their governments the competitive graduate, that is, the one who is a cheap worker, adaptable, flexible, who thinks about the company and not about his rights. And that is why a competitive department is considered the one that has a curriculum that is cut and sewn to market measures. It is worth a little more, I think, in the research centres set up at the University of Ioannina and the Ionian University. Will research in these two institutions concern the people's needs and the employment of researchers be done with full employment and insurance rights? Let us read it - I will not say it - what the bill itself says about words, in fact, with the same wording for the Research Centre of Ioannina and Corfu in two different articles. Their aim, among other periphery, is to mediate between the public and the private sector to develop research units in enterprises and that these research centres to achieve this aim cooperate with productive actors in Greece or abroad and promote the economic use of their research results. And alas, one of their resources is also donations from private businesses and private individuals, with the unimportant of course. How much clearer do you have to write it? How much clearer can you show that you are setting up university research centres and technological parks as real companies that are intended to connect universities to the market, that is to say, to facilitate the investment of large-scale entrepreneurs in areas of high profitability? How much clearer to say that this research is not about scientific, social, people's needs, but about diffusing the research results, patents and certified research products, and disseminating them on the market. Does it serve the profitability and competitiveness of monopolistic groups? Then you wonder, Minister, when we tell you that the creation of schools and departments, such as the Agricultural or the Food Department and the Research Centres, is intended to serve the needs of the large agri-food enterprises in the region, the big businessmen in the field of energy, tourism and others. And the cherry on the cake of all this is that in these research centres, I reread "...he also employs staff with fixed-time or work contracts or with service contracts". The block, which you have previously denounced, now comes and extends it and SYRIZA legislates itself. After all, I think it is clear why the JRC is voting against the bill and its articles on the two universities. As the case may be, it is clear that, in the end of the bill, all urban parties are in agreement on the substance of all the urban parties, even though they are looking for fleas in the hay or resort to general slogans, fragmentation and clandestineness to disagree. It is clear why the prefectures at universities and TEIs agree, because the local administration, regional directors and mayors agree, since all of them together and everyone separately supports the entrepreneurship and competitiveness of the major business groups. Responses to their struggles and needs, students, teachers and all employees will find them in the JRC's proposal that is on the back of government planning. In the JRC's proposal, higher education is exclusively public and free of charge and all institutions have modern infrastructure and equipment, homes and clubs with the responsibility of the state. The need for the graduate to monitor developments in his science, new applications and technologies is ensured by the institutions and is not an individual case in chasing expensive certificates, as now. And the educational and administrative staff, of course, are permanent. Higher education in the JRC's proposal is really uniform, because it stops the division and categorisation of institutions, graduates and graduates by forming a single degree, a well-reading subject at university level. In the JRC's proposal, the degree is the only condition for access to the profession, since it includes all the knowledge necessary to understand the scientific object and practice of the corresponding profession. The research results are directly exploited in production, not the profits of businessmen, but to meet the expanded social needs. This proposal, of course, presupposes another economy. A new social organisation and power with a genuinely philosophical character and always based on the needs of the people and not on the profits of the monopolies. This can be termed centrally nationwide planning and control, on the basis of which the needs of the number of graduates by industry and geographical area will also be identified, in order to solve the unemployment problem. Only on this point do we think that the real potential of science, which is constantly growing, can really be unfolded to the service of the majority. Just a few words about the other provisions. We are standing in Article 24, which we naturally vote against, because it is the precursor for the definitive removal of students from whatever general education after the 1st of high school, since the 2nd and 3th of high school are transformed into an examination and careal tool for their introduction into higher education. And all this shrinking of general education is unrealisticly seen as an upgrade of the self-determination role of high school. There is Article 28, which we shall vote on. Of course, it was another article which was withdrawn. And that article had some positive votes on the SPDs and the EDPS. The current Article 28 - which I repeat that we will vote on - ensures a sum from the Public Investment Programme for this year's recruitment of substitutes, but in any case merely provides a temporary way out of a matter that we think now, Minister, that it does not raise any further deferrals or mockery. Massive, permanent appointments are now required by all deputys and not promises without a reflection. I kept the question of technical education for the end, not to deal with yesterday's slandering of the Secretary-General, but to answer the question asked to us by Mr Gabroglou about whether the JRC wants to upgrade the ESDP. I could, of course, remind him of our party's questions in this House on this matter or the struggles that the new communists are leading to operating the PES in terms of modernity and perhaps that would be enough. I will, however, tell him straight away that the JRC is in favour of upgrading the PCAs here and now, in the context of this system. You know, our games may be targeting tomorrow - and they are targeting - but they are pressing and responding to the needs of today. Do you know why we are so interested in upgrading the PSAs? Because we reject the unscientific theories of people who take and don't take the letters, the ideologies about natural gifts and professions of the hand that move from bourgeois ideology to give up children's effort and the right to life and education. That is why we think it is mature and modern today that students of the ESDP should be involved in the whole process, that they should not be deprived of general education, that they should not be deprived of a knowledgeable object of what the young man needs in order to understand developments around him and that they should be able to creatively join society. This is how we deal with the professional education provided to the ESDP, because modern technology now introduced into all professions requires an objectively higher level of knowledge than in the past, in order to be able to meet the requirements of the profession. Today the technician needs to work more with his mind and less with his hands. This, however, presupposes that he is well aware of his language, having good foundations in mathematics, physics and other sciences. We cannot treat all of these people with the logic of the'mastorazza' of '50s and '60s. So there is a need today for measures to strengthen the educational role of the ESDP. Nowadays, then, there must be measures to address the disciple’s leak that is important, that all books and books are given timely, that all teachers are in place from the beginning of the year, that all teachers stop the 'violin' every year to shut down sections and be characterized as a small one, so that each student can have access to the expertise he chooses and complete it without obstacles.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u108	Please finish, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u109	I'll be back in a minute. Today, there will be care for the laboratory equipment of these schools, which in many cases is outdated to nonexistent. To support laboratory centres and their infrastructure in order to effectively connect theory and practice for all PSA students. Provide the necessary equipment free of charge and do not be purchased by students. Upgrade would also be the reduction of pupils by class and workshop and the continuing training of teachers under the responsibility of the State. Do all we ask you to do today for the PSAs, and then we talk about their upgrades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u110	We proceed with the special speaker of the Independent Greeks, Mr. Katsiki.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u111	Mr President, can the Minister who wants to develop an amendment be given the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u112	We agree, but we usually do so after the speeches of the speakers. If you have any reason, you may precede, Minister. If you're in a hurry, I'll give you the floor after Mr. Katsiki.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u113	I have no objections.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u114	Then right after you get the floor. Here, Mr. Katsiki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I hear prologues from fellow rapporteurs on the national tragedy that we all experienced a few days ago. Indeed, there was also a rapporteur who was not mentioned at all, but not at all in the bill speaking for seventeen minutes of the hour. You are focusing primarily on who was responsible for this national disaster. But I didn't hear anyone talk about the next day. It seems that it does not suit the opposition reason expressed by those who do not make their self - judgment, renounce any of their responsibilities, by rejecting them to others. You know what? In my personal view, ladies and gentlemen, there is a responsibility for everyone. However, I believe that the Greek Parliament on a special agenda will convene the House to discuss this issue and then we will all come before our responsibilities. However, I would like to say from this Step forward that I am saddened by some of you as a Member and a colleague, when some of you are taking advantage of the fact, the pain, the grief that causes all our wrongful fellow citizens and their firefighting relatives, to express a sterile political confrontation in the exercise of parliamentary dialogue in order to promote politically ambitious plans. It really grieves me. And while we were given the opportunity to have a debate close to those days when we experienced this lamentation of our fellow citizens, and every political party with its representative expressed and tabled what she wanted to say, this continues to this day, causing me to believe - and the wrath of the people she hears, those who listen, through the process of this legislation, to launch fires and fires against the government. There are responsibilities, ladies and gentlemen. They will be sought and charged, and I will be the very least in Parliament who will defend the justice in the memory of our wronged fellow citizens, each one who is responsible for having such punishment as well. You know, today there, in this tanned landscape there is a set of Greeks who volunteer to provide his services. You know, there's the Army and the Armed Forces to help with the provision of every possible help to our fellow citizens. You know, already today, the government and the relevant ministries, detecting the causes of this disaster, are conducting new studies of the revision of urban and rhetoric planning. You know, there's an effort, the attempt of the second day, for which no one spoke, no one mentioned it. It is an effort that faces the second day successfully, since on the first day, unsuccessfully, it has unfortunately not been possible to mourn victims and not to lose the property, the loss of which, together with the loss of the victims, composes today's negative picture of the areas of Marathon and Raphana that happen to be regions of my constituency. But I shall end this glorious prologue by coming to the bill whose vote I believe we shall have it today and to finish, Mr President. I shall start by saying that after the reform process, many of the reform efforts have been made in the field of higher education that have contributed to the restructuring of higher education institutions, to modernization and their extroversion, to strengthening their self-government and to rationalising their organisational structures. A set of laws, presidential decrees and regulatory acts reflects the state's effort to address the unsolved problems in the functioning of the HEIs and to give them a more operational, modern and open to society of character. However, the objectives pursued are not always achieved, either because of fragmentary implementation arrangements or because of the inability to implement these provisions, so that an inadequate and inefficient institutional framework is perpetuated. The provision for the maximumisation of technological educational institutions since 2011 did not follow such measures as the number of sections in these institutions increased by geometric progress. There was their geographical dispersion. At the same time, non-technological sections were created, canceling the task of complementarity that they had planned to accomplish. Today's draft law recommends an integrated institutional intervention, in our view, in the organisation of higher education institutions by making use of previous legislative processes, as well as any essential elements resulting from parliamentary procedures and public dialogue. It is not a unilateral proposal, but it is a product of suggestions and conclusions from committees of academic teachers, namely those directly involved, those who regularly record the needs of the university community on the one hand and those who formulate their policy tomorrow of universities on the other. Its proposed provisions aim at treating problems and malfunctions in order to strengthen structures and make them more effective, to gain adequacy and credibility and to contribute to the qualitative upgrading of the educational process in all its areas, with the aim of effectively addressing the cultural, social and economic challenges faced by the country. The promoted reform of the curriculum focuses on cognitive subjects that are compatible with international scientific developments, while at the same time the competent staff of the TEI will be supported and made sustainable and efficient in the newly established sections of the universities. In any case, through the draft law being passed, the subject matter of the academic fields covered by the University of Ioannina and the Ionian University is enriched, the qualifications of the graduates acquire an added value, and the benefits and the establishment of higher education institutions in an enlarged network of cities and regions are multiplely characterised. The overall strategy implemented through the proposed provisions aims to make educational institutions more attractive both in terms of academics, such as attracting students, members of the LAGs and scientific partners, as well as in terms of developing partnerships with local government, with the CDEs, with chambers and other business operators at local, national and international level. In the past, parallel, often unscheduled, and customer-friendly, I would say, the establishment of departments in universities and TEI has resulted in the overlapping of cognitive objects and the creation of confusion among graduates regarding their professional rights. The consequence of this was that hundreds of classes of higher education institutions in universities and especially at TEI did not have professional rights, so in several cases students would not invest as much as they should in knowledge and in studies. The bill therefore puts an upper class in the perpetuation of this situation and is the starting point for a transitional period for the upgrading of higher education. In particular, as far as students are concerned, the strengthening and safeguarding of their professional rights is ensured, while the possibility of recognition of diplomas is established to those who wish to continue their studies at a higher level. The new departments and schools to be created are expected to upgrade the educational, scientific and research work of the two universities, both of the Ionian University and of the University of Ioannina, creating the conditions for better organization of postgraduate studies and for the organization of doctoral studies. The new branches to be created in these universities are based on the interconnection of study with employment and seek the greatest possible absorption of graduates from the labour market. This enables young people to remain in Greece, to study and to play an active role in the country's productive reconstruction. It is true that high-quality education is an essential prerequisite and, at the same time, a catalyst for economic development, prosperity and social justice. It is commonly accepted that research has substantial effects only when it is linked to the real economy, contributing to an effective transfer of knowledge to it in order to translate into an increase in productivity and economic growth. The upgrading of studies and the extroversion of higher education institutions, supported by the proposed regulations, the integration of the Epirus and Ionian Islands into relevant universities will lead to the further use of technological knowledge in both education and research and will yield significant results, as they have shown similar efforts that have been made at European level. Through coordinated cooperation between the business community and the new universities, the basis for implementing research results and innovative proposals will be widened in order to enhance the competitiveness of enterprises. There will also be a benefit for universities themselves as the conditions for attracting more investment from the private sector to research and innovation, bridging the gap between science and the market as new scientific knowledge can be unreasonably transformed into new products and services. This bill is introduced to follow up the reform policy implemented and signals the ability of the state and provides Greek citizens with a public good of high quality, with full use and accountability of the resources available to education as objectivity and merit lead to the instability of the sense of law and credibility to the Greek citizen, professor, student and parent. We are voting in favour, Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on the proposed draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, with a view to completing the reform policy launched by the government for all levels of education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u116	Thank you. The Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mrs Ahcioglu, has the floor to support Amendment No 1728/187, on the subsidisation of workers in operations destroyed by fires on 23 and 24 July 2018. Please, Mrs Ahchioglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u117	Ladies and gentlemen, the Government and the Ministry of Labour have announced immediate measures to relieve and support the people affected by the catastrophic fires in the Attica region. Among other things, there have been measures on financial aid with the amount of two double pensions for people affected by fires, a series of insurance and tax arrangements by the Ministry of Finance, the financial assistance of EUR 10,000 to the families of the deceased and the EUR 1,000 per month until the age of the children or until the end of their studies, to these children who may have lost a parent in the destructive fires. These arrangements and measures provide for the possibility of granting an unemployment allowance from the OAED and a single sum of EUR 650 to those who have lost their job because the operation of the company has been suspended, which may have been partially or totally destroyed by the fires. There by the OAED is the unemployment benefit. But there is this problem, and that is why we are tabling this amendment. In order to be able to receive unemployment benefit, a worker must have completed a minimum number of days' work. The minimum is one hundred and twenty-five days of work in the last fourteen months before the end of his work relationship. Since the undertakings operating in the areas are mainly seasonal enterprises there is a possibility that the workers who have lost their jobs due to the suspension of operation of these enterprises may not have been able to complete this minimum number of days in order to receive the unemployment benefit. We therefore anticipate in this amendment, which we tabled to the draft law by the Ministry of Education, that, in these cases, for workers affected by the catastrophic fires, the OAS can grant unemployment benefit to the minimum duration of the regular unemployment subsidy of the common unemployed, even if they have not completed this minimum number of days of work. I think it is a reasonable amendment to strengthen these people who have suddenly lost their jobs.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u118	Thank you. The next speaker is the special speaker of the river Mr Mavrotas, who has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr President. I'm going straight to the bill. We will talk about the amendments in secondary, because they are still coming. It is our destiny in August that we discuss a draft law on education, especially for higher education. The same had happened last year on August 1st and August 2nd. So it tends to be a tradition! This time we are discussing the merger, absorption, agglomeration, amalgamation - or as we should call it "newspeak" of SYRIZA - the University of Ioannina with the Epirus TEI and the Ionian University with the Ionian Islands TEI. This is a bill that had only seventeen out of thirty-six articles in the consultation, and with the present basically continues the policy of the Ministry for the University of Teaching. So TEIs disappear gradually from the academic map, without ever having talked about their role. And because the Minister asks us 'what you propose', let's see what he proposed two years ago when this debate was held in the Committee on Morphic Affairs with his chairman. There was even a fourteen-page conclusion at the time entitled 'The Single Area of Higher Education and Research', which I am presenting for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, George Mavrotas, presents for the minutes the above conclusion, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Chapter 7 on page 10 of the conclusion entitled "Procedures for the Upgrading of Universities and TEIs in the Development of the Single Area". On 7 June, in fact, we had a special meeting in the Committee on Education, Youth, Education and the Media, if you remember. On page 9 and 10, then, he says about TEIs: "After examining a number of elements from a small committee, there will be consultation on the possibility of including TEIs in one of the following categories. First, those which are already academic equivalents to corresponding university departments, second, those which do not fulfil the above conditions, but could cover them during a three-year period not necessarily at the end of it and, thirdly, those that could continue to exist at the TEIs as departments that provide technological education more compatible with the initial purpose of establishing TEIs." And the conclusion continues: "The departments which are part of the first category and those of the second, which will be integrated during the three-year period, will directly have the right to organise a third-cycle study, i.e. doctoral and, directly, to explore the possibilities for future integration into a university bond or to form an independent department in a university." What about this bill? All departments are upgraded directly to universities, and if there is one that is not upgraded, they disappear along with the TEIs. The strategy that we had discussed ever since, since 2016, we have been in agreement in general - there are, after all, the Minutes - through an institutional process in the Committee on Educational Affairs. The plan, however, flew by the government into the nucleus cart, because it discovered the cubicle of mergers, beginning with the University of Western Attica. Of course, this strategy did not go through any of the Committee on Morphic Affairs, so that we could express agreements or disagreements. As far as our criticism of the multi-dimensional division is concerned, I am once again reading from the 2016 outcome what the Minister and the committee then said on page 8. I've filed it in the Minutes, you can find these. "Exodus academic priorities and pressures of local government have led to the dispersion of many new departments in various cities and towns of Greece. Most of the time - the conclusion continues - the administrations of the institutions as well as the members of the EPAs who took over the implementation of enlargement. And I don't hide from you that when I read this again, I was a little caught laughing, because that's exactly what Mr Gavroglou said in 2016, that's exactly what I'm saying to him now, since he's been following the same practice that he condemned two years ago, that is, every city and school, every village and department! So SYRIZA is not the hope that comes but the work repeated with another director. And because we in Potami don't have our nest dirty, we can say things with their name without fear and passion. But what changed since June 2016? Firstly, Mr Gavroglou became Minister in the place of Mr. Friend and, secondly, the elections approached and some rabbit had to take off your hat to higher education, and this rabbit is the university of the TEIs. Apart from that, I should like to say a little bit quickly to the committees, the problematic aspects of the absorption of the TEI Epirus from the University of Ioannina. A one-stage School of Information and Telecommunications Applications is set up based in Arta, when it already exists at the University of Ioannina Multitechnical School with a Department of Computer Engineering and Computer Engineering, and the funny thing is that, in the 2016 conclusion, page 9, the Minister criticizes the inflation of schools on IT. He thinks it's a side effect. Another issue is the question of the new department to be set up, the Engineering Engineering of the Polytechnic School. Judging by the National Technical University, engineers are a school with heavy laboratories, i.e. demanding infrastructure. Are there? Are they going to be? They don't, as you know, happen from one day to the next. For the Special Education Division, what came in and came out of the bill, the Senate agreed - we heard the dean Mr. Capsalis - disagreements were in the Pan-Hellenic Scientific Association for Special Education, which was finally adopted by his own opinion. We have received a complaint from the Association of Qualified Degrees of Special Education, S.A., who was in the consultation, that his opinion was not included in the consultation report, and that is something you should see. It is not the title of the section, in our view, the problem. The curriculum, the content, has to go hand in hand with the modern era. That's what we need to think about. Let's go to university research centers, too. It is a new institution, outside the framework for research, which is given as a dowry to the new universities. He also explained that Mr Fotakis and Mr Gavroglou differed from the research centres. But at least I was not convinced that we need another new institution for research when the universities have the research institutes, i.e. the EITs. In the 2016 conclusion, to which I have referred many times today, on page 5, there is the notion of Vitual Institutions, i.e. virtual institutes, to play this role. It seems, however, that this idea has also been abandoned. The impression, however, that they can overcome the incredible bureaucracy of research because they are legal persons under private law, since they are basically under the same regime. I am also very concerned that the choices for the administration of research centres and institutes will be exclusively intrauniversity, i.e. only university ICP members, excluding from the administration recognised researchers outside the university. And I am concerned that this is why I think that this is how the university and the research world are being created. And when we talk about a single area of higher education and research, I don't think that watertight is what we want. Also, the fact that he may be the president of the PEK, the university research centre or the director of the institute, a teacher who is also a dean, anti-dean or dean, I don't know if I'm only one who sees it a little abusive and improper. And see if there will now be any more requests from existing HEIs, who will also ask to establish their own PEKs, as a cash-absorbing mechanism now that the door opens. With regard to staff, persons with disabilities, they immediately send the academic criteria to go for a walk. We must also make it clear that, apart from the arts, there are no cognitive objects which are exceptional and undeniable in nature where a doctoral thesis cannot be drawn up. That can only be said for the arts. I say this because any loopholes for others, other than arts, should not be created. Finally, the non-movement of administrative staff from towns - seats, which have been added backwards, are virtually depriving them of freedom from university administrations to make better use of their staff. Eventually, do the institutions have the self-interest to distribute as they think that their staff or the client is always right? But let me say a positive one too. The complementarity added by the Agronomic School at the University of Ioannina with the livestock - and not only - tradition that exists in Epirus and efforts to interconnect the universities with the production of this university, through the model of Agricultural Technology Park of Epirus, the PATEPI, is a positive part. The connection between production and higher education has always been to us. And one wonders when the left will make her self-criticism about the delay in interconnecting universities with production. Let's go to the other articles. In Article 24 for kindergartens, you were right to extend 25/9 instead of 10/9 with legislative improvement. However, we must - and we have heard the President of the club at the hearing of the bodies - speed up the procedures and run the entries through Myschool and not wait for the autopsies of the EPP which may take months and will have begun the season. Otherwise, the amendment will be empty law. Article 28 of the TEI and the universities' EDPS has finally been withdrawn and, as you said, you will bring a presidential decree. We would like you to tell us whether there is a timetable or wait until the elections. The positive provisions for the PPE, which may somehow alleviate from the heavy bureaucratic burden, are positive. Today, to do research at a Greek university or research centre needs a strong stomach, it takes infinite patience and time to waste, by conducting administrative procedures. In the new Article 35, which deals with the settlement of the debts of the LAG members, which did not give the university the freedom of profession, whether intentionally or negligently, the consistent, who were in line with their obligations are punished here. And, yes, a solution to these debts will of course be given, but when a consistent professor sees a 20 % break - unless I do not understand something well - he probably feels very foolish. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, on 1715/74, on the legislative adoption of one day in which education, seminar and practice is to be carried out to tackle natural disasters at the first two levels of education, namely primary, high school and high school. The Minister told us - and the rapporteur has told us - that it is already happening. But what is being done is for earthquakes in cooperation with OSH. It must also be extended for other natural disasters, for fires, floods, extreme weather phenomena, i.e. they do not just depend on the initiative of any director or teacher group - which are fortunately taken by managers and teachers' clubs - but must be compulsory for all schools for one day, at least at the beginning. At the time of climate change, we must prepare the next generations for such phenomena that will increase. So instead of staying in "Pray for Greece", we should go to "Preparing Greece", starting with the new generations. Schools should therefore be mandatory one day per year for dealing with natural disasters with a seminar and a practical exercise. Because, as I well know from sport, if you fail to prepare yourself, then prepare to fail. And, unfortunately, we saw this happening recently. In conclusion, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that all this debate on university education and research must not only take place with local stakeholders, first decide what they want and then legislate. This is essentially academic folkism, which has as a driving force the vote rather than academicity. The whole process should be done institutionally. The Morphics Committee had come up with a conclusion, what I've submitted to you. The criticism I am now making to you, Minister, makes your point so very clear at that time, with which we were generally in agreement. So you did it, too in 2016. This conclusion, as has been ignored in the IPPC opinion, has, according to the law, been ignored in the field of higher education. Ad hoc universityisation without a few general principles, despite the specific features of each institution - which is said by my dear colleague Mr Sevastakis - ultimately leads to discounts and concessions to local and syndicate interests. And that's the situation that you should avoid and you didn't. And now that the beginning is over, the sweater of academic criteria begins to pour out. And, unfortunately, this thread will begin to sew the banner of electoral benefits and promises. The grar elections and the election cage are already back! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u120	Thank you. The State Secretary for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Ms. Merope Jufi, will support Amendment No 1731 on the establishment and organisation of university clinics.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u121	Completion of these provisions is absolutely essential because there were already shortcomings by Law 4009, mainly because the operation of university clinics in the previous law, Law 4485/2017, where the establishment of university laboratories and the selection procedure was described. It is therefore absolutely essential to complete this process also for university clinics, where we are talking about setting up, renamed, merged, organisation, how these clinical trials are managed and, indeed, in ERC hospitals. In consultation with the administrations of these hospitals, the phases of the MAs that can regulate clinical trials are set out - how the position of the clinical director is called - and, finally, where there is a temporary lack of members of the IPAs, how the continuation of the clinical activity is ensured. We put it to discussion.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u122	We shall now proceed with the last rapporteur of the Party of Centres, Mr Anastasio Megalomustaka.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are at the last stage of the drafting of this bill, we have carefully monitored all the committees and each of them has been placed in a spirit of cooperation, with a spirit of positive criticism of what has come here, which has also made some positive comments from the ministers. But that's not good enough. In no case is that enough. Many institutions have advocated or at least favoured this bill. However, along with these positions, they also had several proposals. Unfortunately, we have seen that so far - and we think they will not come to the end - none of their proposals have been adopted. I don't know how you see it, but for us it's unauthorized. We are a party that we are talking about, that is what we do and that is what we mean in the end. We do not follow the practices of other parties, older than the power, but also of your parties that are currently ruling, which can do something while you have said something different, and in the end to justify to your voters, you say that you did not mean it, or had other purposes and obligations, to the lenders and the partners, or whoever you want, that led you to such decisions. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] We in the Centroon Union want the good of young people and show it in practice. That is what you should do, because they are - the children and the young people - who will come tomorrow to live in that country, to create in that country and to manage all the mistakes that the previous ones have made with you. Now let's go to the bill and his criticism. We have spoken positively about the creation of new universities. I do not think that in this Chamber we should object to upgrading our educational institutions. However - once again I say it - you have not taken note of what I have told you, so that this draft law can come in a more comprehensive manner and be voted on. From the first articles on the establishment of universities, I would like to focus particularly on my speech today, in Article 8, on the park which could work positively for the development of the primary sector, which I hope we all know in this Chamber how important it is for our economy and, more generally, for the social fabric of this country. We want to breath our farms, we want to develop trade, we want to make a sustainable development of this sector and we want to support a sustainable response to the potential that this place provides. Our country may be small but it is equipped in a rich way. Why am I saying that? In our country more than six thousand plants already are our ecosystem and many of them are endemic, that is, we only have them. This is particularly the case in the region of Epirus, as it is a 'botanical paradise' - if we could say so - and we must take advantage of that. So we cannot oppose such a move, which we believe will help. All you have to do is manage it properly and not look at the pathogens of the past. On the other hand, however, I have said that the other articles are articles that have not been consulted. These are articles which we should have time to study, to make them better. Indeed, even yesterday, but today, we have new remarks on these articles, because it is particularly difficult to know what the legislator wanted to say, even with very small proposals, even at the end of some articles. And I'll tell you what I mean. I am referring to Article 29, where you say - and we have shown too many times our humanitarian character - that unaccompanied refugee can be hosted in the structures of INEDIBIM, the Institute of Youth and Lifelong Learning. That's as far as we're concerned. But why should this apply from 1 July 2017? Why would he have power last year? We are sure that you want to cover up - and I wish not to verify - certain financial outstandings you have. It is our view and we would like a relative position. While we were asked a great deal - not only to us but to the entire educational community involved - the resumption of Article 28. You're walking all these people. It's the second time. And I say that you are walking them, because not only did you withdraw it from this bill, but you tell us that it will come to us to resolve this serious issue - which you too recognise - by a presidential decree. When? How? Will you cover with the Presidential Decree directly the demands of all these people? Will you be fair? Remember your issues, which were flagged, to succeed in coming to the government. From there on, we want to stand by some articles, which we are dealing with in a positive way, to show that we are really looking at all bills without zero. One of these articles is Article 22, which deals with the practical exercise of students and students in schools or structures of the Ministry. We are in favour of this provision. We are in favour of this article. In fact, it is one of the positions we had put forward in 2016, but we have brought it back to our proposals again, to the integrated proposals that we made for the relocations in 2018. We are very pleased to see that this will happen, because perhaps the teachers will also be able to get away from the bureaucratic work they have to do. And this will help - and I will say it once again, and you hear us - and the administrative group, which I have been analyzed to committees many times how it can work. I would also like to talk about Articles 25 and 26. We consider these articles to be a stepping stone so that we can show, improve and develop vocational training. However, there are other articles which put us in mind, such as Article 24, which gives us again - and it has a positive character to develop and develop primary and secondary schooling - to the Minister the opportunity for him to decide on the courses, on the programme and on various other things, for which we should decide. From there on, we are negative to Articles 30, 31 and 32, because you come to correct errors, which you made a few months ago. We can't legislate like that. We have told you many times that when we bring a law to the vote, he must be well designed and seriously studied so that we do not have these fronts - back and back. Nor can we look positively at Articles 33 and 34, not because we are not in favour of the development of research, but because, quite simply, you have not taken into account the suggestion made by Greek researchers at all. So, we're not going right. And you know that too. You do things that you do not believe or you may not even know of. And we say that because other things you've been saying before and you're doing more now. We are not legislating and we are not ruling a country like this under any circumstances. I would like to talk about another article, Article 35, which was also our own proposal by means of an amendment, to settle and settle some debts that were incurred by teachers. However, as you bring it, you create injustices for those who are businessmen and those who are involved in companies. Also, the 20-year-old limit you put is certainly going to expire as an anti-constitutional. You see this very well, because there is no point in making such mistakes, when there are wings in this Parliament that show you how you can improve, not for the sake of SYRIZA, but for the good of our country and our country. Now, I want to stand - although it was not part of my speech, because it was only to talk about the bill - to some of the rapporteurs' positions that came up today on this Step here. I will speak for almost all, except for those of the two smaller parties, our own and the Potami, who have shown that we have the most valuable and positive attitude, at least in terms of education. I'll explain why. In here, Parliament's rooms are not a café to fight without substance. Because the biggest confrontation that was here today was on Facebook and whether a page was true or whether Mr. Paulakis had written it in his post. This can't be done in the cafes many times. Consider yourself. He said so many things, which were negative, and you stood on Facebook. Why? Also, in here, it's not a theater. We may have been in the Senate Hall, where a theatrical action had taken place some time ago, but we are not a theatre here to address the anger of Greek citizens in order to excitement them. That's what it's called populism. I cannot see the rapporteurs from the two major parties, of the parties that were ruling to date, bringing us into this situation, phoning their responsibilities and saying they have positions. Where are their places for the relocations? Why don't they use the organization for so many years? Is that how you think he's getting a good opposition? For us, that does not exist in any way. Also, we cannot accept what was heard by the KIC's special speaker. Well, not everyone can be bad. Not everyone can be in favour of entrepreneurship. Many times, and entrepreneurship doesn't hurt our place. We are not in favour of large companies. However, we must help entrepreneurship. We need to strengthen young people so that they don't leave outside. It is not possible for the whole world to be bad and this 4% or 5% of the JRC to be the ones who know the truth. Something's wrong. Check it out. I would also like to talk about what the SYRIZA rapporteur, who tells us - and quite rightly - that this bill came in the right way and that the bodies were positive. Yeah, they had a positive attitude at first. But, as we have said before, you have not adopted any of their proposals. That's authoritarian. We should not play impression games here. And we'll go to the worst of everyone, to the goldens, where populism gives recitals. I'll talk about them, though I don't normally do it, because I think we need to restore our culture sometime. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I'm going to need some time. Maybe I'll take time from my dentistry as well. They are these people who are not ashamed to take advantage of man's pain even in such difficult situations. They are the ones who exploit the indignation of the world, who becomes more receptive to lying, as before, and we saw what the results were, talking about German nazi nazi flags, when photographs come out next to nazi flags. Shame on them! These must be heard by the Greek people. We must give them to light so that they understand who these people may have supported them on his indignation. It's not all the Nazis who voted for this form. Look at it a little and don't give them a step. Do not give them a step by step with the positions and meaningless, for us, comments to them. They are these people who have been trying to benefit from the pain politically from the destruction of our fellow humans from the fires. They're the executives who erased their fires and another executive was filming it online to show it. If they were really interested, they wouldn't put them up. They'd do the good thing from there, and the world would judge. Don't get confused. To make moves to provoke the anger of the world is not what our country needs in any way. What our country needs is our young people, these children, students, young people, who immediately and unselfishly showed their support for all those affected. It may have been heard within the committees that the teachers - who have helped, rightly said - were not open schools, but that is how it was with our children. From the first moment it was there to help the organization, to share all the products and supplies sent by the other Greeks. These are the kids we have to support. These are the people that we must strengthen as a political system. Let us not allow Brain Drain any more. Not to underestimate them by saying that they are the generation of tablets and mobiles, social networks. This generation has dreams. It may be different from ours or from yours, because as the newest Member of the Greek Parliament, I think I belong to this generally. Dreams are different, expectations are different and the difficulties they have to face. Everyone must understand that in this Chamber. These people are to be supported and not to have them under semi-employment regimes and youth unemployment to be at 42%. Let us show the necessary seriousness in this Chamber. Let us show that we really care for the good of our country and then our country will show the required respect for its political scene. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u124	Mr Megloumustakas concluded the course of the interventions of the parties' rapporteurs and specialist speakers. Before giving the floor to the Minister, Mr Gavroglou, let me make a consultation on planning the continuation of the debate. They are twenty-four speakers. This may mean at least three to three and a half hours. They're eight parliamentary representatives, which means a couple of hours. So we're going to five and a half hours. We also have the secondary and interventions of other Ministers, either for amendments or for the Ministry of Education. So, with a clipboard calculation, we set the end of the meeting after 21.00 p.m. to 21.30 p.m., maybe a little later. We will give the floor to the Minister, Mr Gavroglou, and then Mr Skourletis will have the floor for the amendment. He will then speak, Mr Gregorakos, as a parliamentary representative of the Democratic Integration, and then we shall start the list of speakers. Minister, thank you for your patience. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, too. We have some legislative improvements I'm tabling for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u126	We are almost a year later - just a few days later - voting for the law on higher education in our country. Last year we passed the framework law on higher education, and six months ago we passed a law establishing the University of West Attica. Today we are discussing the future of higher education in the Ionian Islands and Epirus. A year ago the law we voted introduced rules, restored a normality to our higher education institutions, which had literally been eroded by the 2011 Act. In this landscape of complete deregulation we tried to bring democratic elements, we tried to establish academicity, we tried to give openings to the popular layers and children of popular strata. In this way we have established a new procedure for the election of the regulators and anti-regulators, which we have been accused of today, and I have not heard a trace of self-criticism - one year later - from the same people who have accused us of how well these procedures have gone, how positive they are for the future of our higher education institutions, where they have been held in many institutions. The second is that he finally entered a class in the postgraduate curriculum from a chaotic environment, by chaotic regulations. For the first time, there was a committee at the Ministry of Education not to approve or not approve them, but to check the procedures under which they constituted their budgets. Six hundred fifty postgraduate degrees were approved. Among these many more of the other years are free of charge and in everything that is not free of charge up to 30% of registered students do not pay tuition fees due to their financial situations. We have also begun to participate in the collective bodies, and we call on the students to make use of it, to make those procedures that will make them partakers in a legal framework that we voted on. A year later, funding for higher education institutions increased by 45%. They receive 45% more money this year than the other years in the state budget. There was a dramatic increase in scholarships from the IKY. Thousands of seven hundred young scientists have the opportunity to be appointed in places for educational experience. We passed the law on the relocation of the brothers on economic criteria. No family will have to sustain over a house and those whose families have too low incomes can be translated where their parents are. Also, this year we gave 40 million for a housing loan. These are things that are very positive for our society, for our country, for higher education, for popular strata. At least let's accept them. And you saw that I told you things that are undeniably not what one can appreciate differently. They're numbers and numbers, as you know, they're at least objective. But what is the most important element of our policy - and I mean this and I would like us to agree here - is that for the first time in recent decades we have not been sufficient to pass laws, which are ultimately administrative reforms. That's not enough. The next day we opened the debate on the future of higher education. So we are not enough in administrative laws and then we say 'Let life do as it does'. We have said that we are starting the debate on the future of higher education. And the key word is the future. So let's see how this was discussed. I would also ask, after four meetings of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, that the other parties tell me how they see the debate themselves on the future. The debate on the future means what you will follow, what will be the context of the debate, what the proposals will be and how will the political leadership make decisions. The debate has these four arms. As far as the procedure is concerned, then, we immediately started setting up working groups from people designated by the institutions, those whom you almost abused, that is, those for whom you told us, 'we do what we do to meet their demands'. I'd say we'd show some modesty and some peace. So what did we do? We said that any institution wants to discuss its future to sit around a table and bring suggestions. And, of course, both universities and TEI responded to this call, to this unprecedented call and to this unprecedented process. And the ministry put in committee only one person to have a communication on what's going on. So no one can blame and say that all these committees were committees of the Ministry. And working groups were set up - look out! - between the TEI of Athens and the TEI of Piraeus, the Ionian University and the Ionian Islands TEI, the University of Ioannina and the TEI of Epirus, the University of Western Macedonia and the TEI of Western Macedonia, the University of Thessaly and the TEI of Central Greece, the University of Peloponnese and the TEI of Peloponnese, the University of Patras and the TEI of Western Greece, the International University together with the TEI of Central Macedonia and the TEI of Eastern Macedonia. And a working group for the Crete TEI is to be set up. Has that happened before? I ask you: you have been responsible for higher education for decades. Your hands have gone through billions. Have you ever dared to do such a process, which would highlight the problems of higher education and proposals for the future, or what has always been done were committees of the Ministry controlled, to see what will happen, which you have not even followed, but have taken the Ministers' proposals? So here we say that there is a debate about the future. And it is not only a question of democratic sensitivities, because that would be a mistake. Because it would be wrong to trouble people to show how democrats we are. It is that these people are especially special people to discuss these problems. Does the state have to accept what they suggest? The answer is 'no'. But let us start with the procedure: who is discussing what, who decides what. We have said that the axes are procedure, framework, proposals and political decisions. The framework is the Single Education and Research Area, which was established in the context of the national dialogue in the year that passed, 2016-2017. As I will prove afterwards, things are dynamic in the debates that have taken place in the context of national dialogue. If there are arguments, some of us also change positions. Those who don't change positions, let them judge themselves for obsession, for dogmatism. So the questions are: Are there any arguments? Are there any material possibilities to take a step below or do we dogmatically stick to positions for ideological reasons? What questions should be answered when we discuss the future of the institutions? You will allow me, because I really think you are worthwhile and highly intelligent colleagues - and I say this without a trace of sarcasm - to ask you not to say again that this is a university of TEIs, do not say that it is a merger of TEIs, do not say that we have retreated into local interests. You underestimate both the people of these institutions, the societies themselves and the political challenge for the future of higher education institutions. Tell what questions we should answer when we discuss the future. Tell us your plan that doesn't exist. I will, however, come back to this. So what are the questions and therefore the criteria in the debate on the future of higher education? Firstly, how these working groups appreciate with coolness, but also self-criticism the history of each institution. You can't do anything if you don't say how you got here. That is why very interesting discussions have taken place. They weren't all cool, they weren't all self-critical. It's okay. There were discussions, however, and most were calm and self - criticism. These discussions have highlighted the problems that need to be solved, which are not all national in nature. There are often local differences due to this story. Not all institutions are affected exactly the same way. On the first question, then, there was a debate. The second question: what are the cognitive objects to be reformed? Each university has some cognitive objects. Are these no matter where time and place? Will it apply forever? Does it make sense to continue to be taught or have some closed their historical role? Thirdly, what are the new cognitive fields that need to be incorporated into our institutions? It is not only what has been overcome by life itself and science, but also what is new. For example, when we talk about the Interpretation Department, which has heard incredible things, we are talking about it in the context of the new reality of the Balkans. It'll be a part of the Balkan language emphasis. We want to serve it in an extremely successful way. So we don't talk about things in the air. The same applies to the highly documented decision of the University of Ioannina Polytechnic School, which proposes the setting up of a Department of Engineering. Before you start blaming it, read the report. That's how this school sees its future through it. The same is true of the establishment of a rural school in Arta. This is an excellent initiative, in my opinion, as well as the establishment of a department of food sciences there. The same applies to the establishment of tourism schools and regional development in Kefalonia, which will study issues of coastal economy and island policy. These are new things. That's what we need to hug. The same is true of ethnic biology. But be careful about this. We're not going to relax at the precinct setup. The great challenge is after their establishment, how they will work, not technically, but by choosing the best scientific staff possible. We will be ruthless where we suspect - not understand - complications in the staffing of both old and new departments. Fourth question: Who will be the new institutions that will strengthen its research and multiplicity? Here Mr. Fotakis spoke very thoroughly. It will be placed today on the subject of university research centres. Fifth question: What role will higher education play to strengthen this post-training training as well? Doesn't the university have a role in post-training? Since when, really? This is where the two-year curriculum is being introduced. There comes a new institution that will only bring good. Finally, what will be the relationship between higher education institutions and society, with other educational and research institutions and cultural institutions? The university's opening outwards. The university has an extroversion. This must be done by rules and by new institutions, and that is what we are doing. This will be done with the Memorandum of Cooperation which we will sign with the ELGO 'DIMITRA'. This is going to be the sea park in Zakynthos. This is going to be the farm food park in Arta. So the debate is not about mergers. The debate is not even about university education, it is about the future of higher education. Those were the questions. Now I'm going to get a little tired of the process when we got the findings. The working parties have unanimously submitted findings. We got them and sent them to the chapels. The senates discussed them and sent us their comments. We received the comments and formed the first form of the bill. We posted it for public consultation. We have then taken into account comments from the public consultation. We rebuilt the regular bill, which we sent to the conventions. We got their suggestions back. So don't tell me that it wasn't discussed enough and we're bringing it in the summer as a hunter. Mercy! This process has not been followed again, but it is a process that has shown the maturity of the institutions to move, and I would also say the excellent cooperation of our partners in the Ministry of Education throughout this project. Is that just a merger? Is that a university? These are easy things. I guess it's much more complicated and I'd ask you to respect it. Here, then, is the irreversible question. Is there another proposal that's gone away from us? Is there another party's proposal, another party's collective? Is there another road map, different with which you can discuss the future of institutions? Are there any other questions to be discussed? In this context, I am sure they have been discussed. I haven't recorded all the questions. But is there another point of view? I challenge you four days now, in the Committee on Morphic Affairs, to tell me if you have any opinion. The answer is fortunately very sincerely - and I am glad to say it again - that no party has any other view. New Democracy, I believe, was the most honest thing in this case. What do I mean by that? They didn't do anything to tell you that's our opinion, because there's no other view. The only view was "Athena". It is done, it has twisted us for a number of years, we are still trying to get out of here, but you have not, and I very much appreciate it, another logic, because it means that you do not. The Change Movement was kind enough to give me some texts, which she tabled - and rightly - in the Minutes. I would ask you to take a copy of every text. You will see that it is a set of references. Any trade union party like that. The only...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u127	We didn't hear what you said. Is that a set?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u128	It's a whole set of requests, references. The only thing that exists, of course, is private universities. Furthermore, there is nothing in the debate on the future, how we imagine the future, and so on. Of course the rapporteur has read something from the Scientific Committee at the end, has she not? You would all consider it a text of the Scientific Committee. But it's not like that. It is what the Scientific Committee, which we say in our explanatory statement, says. You failed to say that, because what you said to abuse us is what we say about how careful...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u129	I'm glad you're adopting it. I'm glad you're adopting it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u130	Ladies and gentlemen, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u131	No, it's not about adopting it. He's in quotes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u132	It is very important that you understand how high-risk such an initiative is.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u133	First of all, when he's in quotes, it means he's got it somewhere. Secondly, the bell that you will all think - and rightly so - that we are told by the Scientific Committee of Parliament is what we have said about ourselves just how difficult the project is. As far as the river is concerned, you have done something very appropriate, Mr Mavrota. You said 'one you ask us what our opinion is, I will tell you what your opinion is'. It's in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u134	Which we agree with.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u135	Is it possible to tell you, when I ask you about your opinion, "one you ask me for my opinion, will I tell you what your opinion is?" That's not how it works. Is that the conversation?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u136	Which we agree with.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u137	That's not how it works. I didn't interrupt anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u138	But don't say anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u139	I'm not saying what I want. That's exactly what you said, isn't it? You said that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u140	Please don't interrupt, Mr. Black.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u141	So you agree with our view.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u142	Not what you changed with the original!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u143	Minister, please don't have a dialogue. Let's shorten up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u144	Isn't that so because I'm telling you something, Mr. Mavroy? Because you are ideologically and politically enormously away from the JRC, do not adopt logic of the JRC that is very convenient. The dogmatism, insistence on things, in particular, must not characterise a party as yours, because the texts are to start discussions. The texts are not things written in stone. So I say that a dialectical way of thinking, etc. It's him. So unbelievable but true. The opposition parties have no opinion on how the future of higher education should be discussed in our country. It's never happened before. I do not think there will be a Parliament which does not have an opponent who is not critical of your position, but who tells you that if we go in this way, with these questions, on these criteria, we would achieve better or, even more different results for the future of higher education. If you want, the most serious issue is this. The most serious issue is the complete lack of such a policy and simply an easy criticism, an easy petition and it goes by saying. Because you know - and this is the most serious one - that any proposal for reform usually goes up not in the visionary but in the transition. Politics is not visionary. It's about how you guarantee the transition period to the visionary. We promised as government, when we started this process, that every time a bill went through, we would commit ourselves to the number of posts and the additional money we would give. So today, after consulting the Republican authorities of all four institutions, for the new University of Ioannina we are asked for for forty-two places, broken down into three years, this year, of time and 2020-2021. We accept the whole request. Forty - two places, therefore, are given to the University of Ioannina after a documented view of the Republican authorities. At the Ionian University again, after a documentary view, they seek eighteen places and we give eighteen places. We also provide for the University of Ioannina for laboratory equipment and the strengthening of student care infrastructures a million euros and 500,000 euros for the Ionian University for the strengthening of e-government infrastructures. Our commitment is clear and will be implemented. I thank the prefectures that have given us very well-documented proposals. It doesn't mean anything we're asking. I'm saying this to be clear. Here, indeed, there was an excellent documentation. I'm ending up talking about what's going to happen with the students at the TEI, if they're useless, etc. I'm talking about all this misery. Look, it's pretty clear again for students. The students will complete their programme for the TEIs. Once completed, they will have the opportunity to say "Whether I get a TEI or go on to receive a university degree in the corresponding department", of course, on the basis of what each department decides separately. We even gave a six-month margin, if they regret it because things are difficult to get back. One thing that has been said has not been pleasant and I will not give him much attention. I'm talking about what has been heard that we're doing all of this, so we can get the new departments started and cut ribbons. You should know that, for my part, that things like this as a ministry have no chance of doing. But I'm going to visit again with our ministry partners all the institutions to reunite the wonderful people we've met all this time. And we will meet those with whom we disagreed from the outset and agree now, because they have also shown their academic character. And we will go again, so that we can hear the students protest again in banners, in the way they protest and have conversations, as we did both at Ionianna and the Ionian University. We'll go again. We're not gonna go back to cut ribbons and pet ears. We're going back to see how good and how dynamic this project is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u145	We shall now give the floor to the Minister for the Interior, Mr Skourletis, to support an amendment. The parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Alliance will then be followed, and then we will start the list of speakers. Here, Minister, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall refer to the amendment with general number 1729 and specific number 188. Unfortunately, the amendment relates to the recent national tragedy in which, as I think, the Greek society is standing with absolute respect for the victims, shocked, but also seeking real answers on how the facts have evolved, but also to the root causes that have led to this very large number of human losses. As you know, the government immediately after the tragedy, the great fire Monday, announced a series of immediate relief measures for the affected, beyond the rest of the planning of initiatives to be announced concerning the redesign of civil protection, but what I have had the opportunity today with my colleagues in the Ministry of Energy and the Environment, Mr Famelo and Mr Stathakis, to announce on specific issues relating to urban planning. They will also be presenting them to you later on in the corresponding amendments that will be tabled. This amendment therefore aims to make the compensation procedure simpler, more effective, less time-consuming. Thus, it provides: First of all, the damages related to the building, the damage that has suffered from housing for the building, with the current legislation, have had to do with the main ones. You realise that in this area a very large number of dwellings, perhaps even more, were not the main ones, so for the amendment we are allowing the people affected to be compensated for their homes for any residence not only for the principal residence. The second provision in question is the equation of the compensation, again in the case of construction, to the categories of houses classified as "yellow" or "red". There was a certain factor, which was different, but now we are talking about fire, so the specific features of the cause of the disasters are realised that there is no room for a different approach, a different factor in compensation for construction. The third operational issue promoted by this provision is that it should be possible on the papers requested, on the required documents from the services and from the workshops set up - and, admittedly, in a very short time, the logistics and logistics services have completed their work, but now all three municipalities have begun and operated - to simplify the procedure and to request in some cases the certification of the firefighting or the confirmation from the recording and assessment of the workshops made by the municipal engineers and the sub-funding agency. The last one - and I think it is perfectly understandable and important - is that these aids, any aid of any kind provided by natural persons or households, obviously, should not be offset by other obligations of the households concerned to tax. These are some provisions which did not include in the previous joint ministerial decisions, on the basis of which in all previous cases the compensation paid to the affected persons was based. We consider it necessary to incorporate them so that, at least, they will at the moment ease not pain, but make it easier for those people who are entitled to these allowances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Mr. Minister. To give the floor to the Parliamentary Representative of Democratic Incorporation Mr Gregoraco. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u148	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall start with the latter. We see a parade of ministers, who must not be in their place today. They should have given up. This, of course, is an individual responsibility, which once relentless Anastasios Peponis, when he saw that he was in breach of the law of ASEP - imagine - he resigned, took political responsibility. So remember these things. Now, with regard to the amendments relating to East Attica, we will vote on all these amendments, but the country is facing a great tragedy. The tragic death of our eighty fellow human beings, according to official announcements, missing persons, disasters cause insubstantial grief and at the same time anger. And with what you're doing, you're causing. You come here to see you. Citizens are angry. If, in fact, we have a fundamental awareness of the problems facing us, we must all be aware of the problems facing us, as well as the Coupling and Opposition, of the spectators and the unfavourable aspects of the events. Above all, however, we are obliged to show the necessary social and political responsibility, to be with the families of the people who have been lost, to be with the Eastern Attica. If we do not do so, the rulers and us oppositioners will appear only to be fatal, unwise and cowardly, all of us. The worst thing is that we will be excruciated against the human lives that have been lost, to our fellow citizens who fight for survival in hospitals, to all those who have seen the gift with their eyes and their property being destroyed. I fully understand the difficult position in which the government and the Members of the Chamber of Deputies find themselves. I get it because I've been through these difficult times too once. I understand their attempt to hide behind unheardless arguments. You're saying something. Let it at least make sense to that. You know, ladies and gentlemen, the criticism we make is good. It is constructive, because even if criticism is bad, then it helps those who make the mistakes correct them. All things, however, have an end and the nicest fairy tales and worst nightmares end. For the Prime Minister, the phrase of Manolis Anagnostakis fits: “It was not his fault. That's how he was." He was a little bit. Then he could. He said thousands of things, which he came to overthrow, to talk about all these vineyards that he doesn't understand. But that seemed from the beginning. They didn't see it, only those who didn't want to see it. Isolation will be more and more suffocating as the weather passes. People will tell you "go" out loud. You will have to think about all this at the moment, because time will not be in your favor, it will be against you as long as you live in power. Who will join with you at all, with a hundred and twenty dead government, Mandra and Eye, with a government that is systematically lying and trying to illegally cover up the facts? SYRIZA - ANEL government thinks differently, some say. But that is no longer a matter of inability or analgesia. This is no longer a democracy, as you think, because the government and the state cannot act uncontrollablely. In Western republics there is the Constitution, the Rules of Parliament, there are procedures, there is the mea cuulpa, there is political responsibility, which has consequences. You have reached that point 'we have political responsibilities'. You don't tell anyone anything. The suffering to become a lesson, we must all realize that in life and democracy there are no easy solutions, magical recipes or hidden treasures, nor incorruptible leaders or intolerable moralists. Because, Left government without virtue, like yours, is a government that came to cover all previous crimes. I want to know how some people sleep at night. I want to know those who are directly involved and who have not appeared at all and are hiding. I want to see what the conscience of those responsible is painted. Even God cannot forgive what happened in Eastern Attica. He would forgive them if there were no such immorality and cynicity as our fellow citizens were treated. Your government is a division government. Instead of uniting, he seeks enemies everywhere. It's the only people to blame. It's the citizens. We didn't see and we didn't even hear a sincere apology. "Not a tear, water," a lady said. Not a single expression of compassion from all those involved in the great crime. After the arrogance and arrogance they have shown, they want the clearance not to follow, so that social and political justice can be brought to bear. That's how it happens in tragedies. At the end of the day, the clearance follows. I do not accept and accept that I cannot tolerate the attempt to transfer responsibility to the citizens or to the opposition, nor to find out today the mandarins, who prevented people from accessing the sea, as, unfortunately, the Prime Minister did yesterday with his television directed and insulated visit. For your anti - memorial sermon sermons, if you remember them well, then he said they were deceptive. Now? Did he not know about the substantial urban, environmental distortions and what country does he live in? How many rallyings have been made about them and to which his party participated? Now he's seen it? May I remind you what Mrs. Durus did before she became a district manager, when she was in all those parts, namely Graphics, Marathon, and what did she say about all this? Where is it today? Did he forget the reactions of the leading party and solidarity when he tried to deal with all these problems and get rules in his way? You were across all this. Besides, engineer says the Prime Minister. Today's invoking existing problems when they are three years in power, one thing only shows. Lack of ethos. Others did so in the past, when they discovered the "strong wind" and delivered the fires to Turkish agents. Similarly, SYRIZA - ANEL government is doing today, hiding behind climate change and belonging theories of an asymmetric phenomenon, as she did. The lack of political protection, the absence of elementary management capacity to deal with major problems, although they reveal it today, demonstrate the government's amnesty. The operational deficit reveals an even greater deficit, the political deficit. None of the involved government actors felt the need to resign. Of course, they lack seriousness about what they say and what they do. They're across the whole society. The Prime Minister has to realise here and now that the country's governance is not a playground nor is he alone engaged in the communication management of an unprecedented tragedy. Unfortunately, the fire in Attica proved very dramatically the country's great problem. The government deficit. Democracy is not just the declarant. The government must resign and go to elections. That's all about news. And now I come to the bill. At the time of all this, the Ministry of Education is in a hurry to legislate a number of changes. He had sixteen articles, thirty-six and fifty with the amendments. In the summer part of the House, Mr Minister, you want to pass - and you will do so - articles that have not been put to consultation at all. We told you to get them back. The sixteen articles were put into consultation. You therefore come to make arrangements on both primary and secondary subjects and on issues of postgraduate programmes, studies and the Secretariat-General of New Generation. I see here and the Secretary of Sports. Last day for the championship of another amendment. The bad example must be stopped once in constitutional terms. We cannot at the time when Parliament is convening amendments. We did it, too, and you see where we are. Faced with government pursuits in good faith, one might say they are distinguished by amateurism, even sloppy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So soon is time over? I shall also take my dentistry, Mr President. Looking carefully at government intentions, we can easily see that the proposed arrangements serve a unique objective, the establishment of a strong client- party system in the field of education. Use education as a vehicle to get the benefit of the factors involved. You use education as a "little" to sweeten a portion of the educational staff - because we are, Minister, educational staff - parents who fight for the professional future of their children, students and students, cultivating much expectations. Your policy in the sensitive area of education best condensed your true political self. Not for the first time, you are neither a power to change nor a power to incarnate or represent something new. Very quickly, you're worn out. In three years you've been a lot worse than all the previous ones. You're a statue of populists. The alleged differences on the left and on the right and right are nonexistent, are pretextual. Proof of this is who you're running with. A characteristic example of populism is the attempt to incorporate existing TEIs into universities, in order that their graduates receive not a higher school diploma but a university degree, while teachers of technological educational establishments are banned by rapid procedures to university teachers, so that with limited scientific qualifications they become teachers. You can't prevent it. Are you doing this? You will see what has to do with education in the coming years. I would like to remind you here that TEIs have been a PASOK proposal since 1983. Unfortunately, what you do with this bill is to drive higher education to "Training" rather than to its substantial upgrade. All you want is to demolish technological education. You do not care that old theorists will turn to other professional spaces, get a degree that will have no impact and will definitely be driven abroad after the great crisis that plagues the country. Your educational policy, in fact, is reappearing in the past. He has a strong odor of populism. What about all these kids from the TEI who are going to go to the university and get a moufa degree? Your concern is not the upgrading of education but the riding of it. Your concern is not to strengthen public education but to manipulate it. Your concern is not to address the malfunctions of delaying the problems of the educational area but to use the existing problems to serve short-sighted and micro-political pursuits. Without any plan, without any study, without connecting the real needs of the country, the economy and society, you are resorting to these games with the sole aim of creating impressions and illusions. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today is a symbolic demonstration of how you legislate, in contravening the basic rules of parliamentaryism. Let us actually go to two - three articles. What feasibility studies are the schools set up? Why are new one-stop schools being created? With what logic at the University of Ioannina, do you incorporate in the same school, namely the School of Social Sciences, the Departments of Higher Education and Care in the Early Childhood, Psychology and Translation and Interpretation? He's across Corfu. With so many schools and schools in the other operating universities in the country, research should be carried out on whether the number of diplomas provided corresponds to jobs in the Greek society, because the universities are not to produce armies of unemployed people. The Translation and Interpretation Department after Igoumenitsa what is it that's serving? In addition to the many new schools in the universities and the multiple new university teachers, new research centres are now to be set up to create additional jobs in which they will be recruited 'individuals' in order to vote for us. We did it, too, and we were voted on. Tell us exactly what the work of these researchers will be and how the results of their work will be exploited. You're a recognized university. Our work you know is published in all the magazines of the world. Let's go build an additional mechanism. What have the work of Greek scientists been offering for years? Has it ever been evaluated? Higher education is interconnected with the professional prospects it creates. How do you mean, Minister, the upgrading of technological education, when there is no consistent and thorough provision for their professional rights? This issue is real, why don't you hurry to solve it? With regard to the establishment of postgraduate degrees up to 50% in the Aegean University and the Ionian University, why don't we do it for everyone? Why do we give it to those universities and we don't do it to everyone? Finally, I cannot say that this bill, indeed, is not in the right sense. While unregulated as a whole, there is an analysis of some of the costs which do not correspond to the main issue, leaving unregulated all the important and basic costs that will be required for the operation of universities. Besides, others come, let's pay for that! I guess that's the thought. The policy of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL, ladies and gentlemen, in the Ministry of Education is a monument to harmful policies that undermine education. They don't care about modern needs and requirements. They treat the educational community and parents as instruments to promote its close party pursuits. For all this, all you who vote for this bill will be accountable to the Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Mr. Gregoraco. To give the floor to Mr Vassiliou. Mr Vassiliou, you have asked for the floor to give some clarification on the amendment you have tabled and, of course, it has been discussed in committee. You supported it there, but you asked for the floor and I will give it to you. I would ask you, however, to be brief, because from now on, the time - I inform the Department - has been pressurized and we will see the timetable later.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u150	I will be as brief as possible, Mr President. I would not have taken the floor, Mr President, if there were not a personal attack by Mrs Karamanlis and a distortion of the particular provision that we have put to the vote. First of all, there is an obsession with the supposedly degradation of the legal framework that we brought, brought by Stavros Kontonis, my predecessor, and changed the institutions and courts of football. There is no degradation, but deepening and changes, correction in operation, seeing how the issue works and in agreement with the international institutions of football, with which we have excellent cooperation. The spokesman of the Officerial Representation, however, found the opportunity to make an attack on the issues of football as a whole, which continues to be a reasonable theatre of the irrational theatre without redemption, without beginning, middle and end, and without once again taking a stand on the main issues that have been called upon to deal with all these years and continue to face, giving battles, giving clashes and initiatives. I would not really like to respond, but as the anointed people say: 'The wing is a bad one of its heads'. So I will not ask her if she has heard anything or something about a system called 'paraca'. I will not ask whether he has heard anything or something about a scandal called "Koriopolis". I won't ask if he's heard anything or something about a stained match. I won't ask if he's heard of any contractions on the Lavrio Avenue with dead people. I will not ask if he has heard anything or somewhere that Greek football, the Greek football Federation, is now governed by Greek sports law for the first time. I will not ask, if it is pretended to have forgotten the cracks over time from the international federations, every time they tried to lay rules - even right - the Greek governments. Incompetence in the negotiation is also known and proverbial. We have all experienced it during the first years of the crisis, and now we are going to go beyond its results. I will not ask if he has realised that the international federations consider the Greek Government to be a partner and partner in trying to get rules into Greek football. I will not ask if he realised that the security issues for the overall new framework are created together with the leading experts from the European Football Federation, UEFA. I am not going to ask why he caught you unconscious when we put the issues of responsibility on this particular issue of football anonymity. Besides, the top of them are your escorts or rather your policymakers. I will not ask you, if you realised that we broke the link between VAR and arbitration, that this year we will have an independent CEN and that with our VAR initiatives it will be a reality in a few months. I will not ask where the hundreds of millions of euros went from either the state funds or the funds of the OPAP, which have been allocated to Greek sport for decades, and today we do not have a big and serious infrastructure, and we have all our federations in debt and their administrations within the limits of criminal liability. I'll ask for something simple. Say for once a simple tri-syllable word. It is easy and I think there will be no problem for anyone who has neither a dependency nor a secret agenda. I would therefore ask you to say the word 'parament'. Tell her and see how we proceed the next day. Let's talk with honesty and plan the next day. With inexpensive criticism, nothing is going on. The institutional changes that have been made over the last three years could not even be imagined by you. Surely you couldn't apply them because they needed conflicts, conflicts with your interlocutors, with your assistants, with your mentors. Is everything okay? Obviously not. He still needs a lot of work. Counselling? Broadcasters. But in the key issues there is always a discourse. We were charged with the restructuring of the professional championships and the positions we have. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] What's your position? How many teams can professional sport stand? On what criteria and on what terms? We inherited a broken state of your creation. Tragedies like the one we experienced whatever you say are further persuading us to work even harder, to correct decades' distortions, to build a country worthy of our lives and our children. With the troubles, we're moving on with the head up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. We are going to the list of speakers with Mrs Theopevettos Aphrodite, the first speaker of SYRIZA, on the list of speakers. However, my colleague, before you go to Stepma, I would suggest to the Department that we reduce the speaking time. Time is seven minutes...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u152	No, Mr. President. Let's go tomorrow if we have to.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u153	Listen, there's objectively a matter. [[Noise - Protests]] Let me explain. If you want, show understanding or consent. From there, I can tell you clearly that there will be a problem, because the Vice-Presidents in the Bureau and today's sitting are three, as this is provided for. There is an interest in presiding twice. The way in which the time has come, such as speakers, as set out in the debate with interventions of ministers, parliamentarians, who are, of course, in the context of the procedure, will not be enough for the Vice-Presidents. It is therefore an appeal from the Bureau to you, to the Department, to show an understanding. A first thought, then, was to limit by two minutes a year. I think it has been done too many times and there is no reason why it should not be done. After all - let me say this - if someone moves out of five minutes because they really want to say something important to him, there will be the tolerance of the Bureau. But let us put the five-minute period to try and keep it to facilitate both the Bureau and the meeting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u154	Mr President, may I have the floor to make a proposal?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u155	What do you want, Mrs. Kefalidou?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u156	In the effort, in fact, to consent to what you are asking for, I have a proposal to make to the Minister. To discuss the articles by 15, concerning the establishment of the two universities, and what is out of consultation to withdraw it, so that we can discuss the substance. Because, too, the fast forward process and the Saturday Tindemans do not know what we are voting on, and it is a serious matter - which I understand - but also matters that can go to another procedure, I think it is unacceptable. If the Ministry accepts, then, to consult and close with the bill until Article 15 on higher education and leave everything else to come, we will be happy to see how we can help. However, it is not possible to disguise bills, because here we are in a process where the amendments come to the rain and there is no discussion about the substance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u157	Mrs Kefalidou, the Bureau has tabled a specific proposal. Yours if you'll excuse me, but it's not a proposal in terms of managing time by the speakers themselves. I'm so sorry!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u158	It's a proposal, Mr. President. I suggest it to the Minister to make it easier for us.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u159	So you're asking the Minister to withdraw a number of articles so that we can decide for the five-minute. I'm very sorry, but at least I've been experiencing this for the first time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u160	Mr President, we, too, have been living in such situations for the first time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u161	If we agree, let us have the agreement on the five-minute period so that we can start and not waste time. Warm request to start with the first speaker. So let's go to five minutes. We all agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u162	We do not agree, Mr President, but you do so by a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u163	Good for a majority. Here, Mrs Theophevettus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, for decades the subject of educational reform has been dominated by public speech and its impact on the productive and social process. Admittedly, the word reform creates to us the Kefalonites negative combinations, because the reform we have in mind is that of the 'ATHENA' project, which abolished two parts at night. The draft law we are debating is, of course, part of the upgrading of higher education and the creation of a single area for higher education, of course, seeking to correct chronic illnesses in the field and attempts a number of measures so that the country's HEIs are upgraded and internationalised in modern conditions. The Ionian University, Minister, does not match the other areas mentioned - it is island - and has the peculiarity, on the one hand, to be organized and structured on the big island and, on the other hand, TEI to be in the smaller islands and of the twenty-three years in operation, to have been partially left. We must also add the plan 'Athens' which has been inserted. In a text of positions on the directions of the National Development Strategy 2014-2020 for the Ionian Islands Region, the official figures of ELSTAT and EUROSTAT give the Ionian people a very low percentage of graduates in higher education and, on the contrary, a much higher percentage than the country's average at primary school graduates. In this text it was said that the two higher education institutions of the Ionian Seas should play their key development role, the main lever, that is, both for the economy and for the society of our islands. The most important thing is that there has been a wide-ranging dialogue, committees, discussions with the elected and local communities. The consultation has been very valuable and, of course, is a pioneering project, since the University of Western Attica has emerged with the synergy of the two TEIs. I would also like to dwell on the new section set up in Kefalonia, the Department of Ethnicology, since the two other sections already exist and are being upgraded. It is a department that connects for the first time our cultural heritage, the special musical education of the Istanbul people, this uniqueness in the Greek area. Of course, because there is only a specialization in both the ETUC and Thessaloniki, it is an entirely innovative effort to upgrade it through this section and the culture of the ETUC. And it is important to say that it will also surround the existing department, the Audio and Music Institutions Department, which has a very important course in Kefalonia. Ladies and gentlemen, let me finish, to be brief. I respect time, Mr President. For us education is a public asset, and it is our duty to preserve and upgrade it. It is an integral part of a welfare state, on which better citizens, better societies and its contribution to the economic and social development of the country is undeniable.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Mrs Theophevettos, for the consistency in time. Mr Vassiliou Yoyakas from the New Democracy. Mr. Loverdos will then be followed by the Democratic Association and then by the Deputy Minister of Education, Mr. Fotakis. In other words, we will go three to four speakers, a Minister of State or State Secretary or a parliamentary officer by extension. Come on, Mr. Yoyaka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u166	Ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to express my sadness at the tragic situations that our country has experienced in recent days and, of course, I would particularly like to express our sadness at the loss of a large number of our compatriots. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with a subject that burns thousands of families, students and parents across Greece. Although the Minister is missing, I think it is unacceptable that we should have entered August and still not announced the new system of admission to universities as the Minister sees it. According to the Minister on 21 July, he was supposed to announce the new system of introduction to higher education within the week after too long. Mr. Ministers, for the new system we have heard a number of times. You have created confusion and uncertainty. Finally, please stop playing with the agony and plans of the students and their families. Ladies and gentlemen, we had to wait in August not only to find out about the pan-Hellenics, but also to come to a vote on the bill for the two universities. They had been ahead several months when the Ministry played hidden with teachers, students and institutions of local societies about the definitive fate of different departments, listening to various competent and unauthorized lips when one and the other. Regarding what also concerns the Department of Public Operations of the TEI Epirus in Igoumenitsa, we learned at the outset that it will be abolished, because the committee considered that it is not academically viable. It was then accepted that a Department of Intercultural Communication, which then changed its name and became a Department of Translation and Interpretation, a new section that was referred to the Greek kales, because it was originally planned to operate some time after 2020 and although it had been decided that there were infrastructure and educational staff and that the teachers of the current department would have been transferred to other departments of the University of Ioannina. It's a department that was in danger of staying on paper. At least you understood that there was no reason to leave the new department in Igoumenitsa in the vague future. However, I believe that the change in the last moment you have made, that is to say, that this section has worked by the autumn of 2021 and that it is not good. Why? Because there is a possibility, according to the academic rationale and all the conditions, to operate from the school year 2018-2019, as for the same reason, there are new sections in the city of Ioannina. As for the other eight new departments, then, we want, believe and claim to work in the city of Igoumenitsa in the school period 2018-2019. As the Minister said, he agreed to give forty-two new IOB members positions at the University of Ioannina. So it is possible to frame the new department of Igoumenitsa, Thesprotia, with the extra staff it needs. In today's Business Administration Department in Igoumenitsa there is the teaching staff and the scientific background, so that the curriculum can be quickly formed and the staffing of the new department can be completed. There is, as you may know, a direction of Applied Foreign Languages in the administration and economy with two foreign languages, at a very good level, with translations of legal and economic texts and, more generally, with a cognitive subject that is quite similar to that of the new section. In short, there is also the expertise and the know-how and infrastructure to operate the new section. Besides, something similar is done with the break-up and operation of Departments of Philosophy and Psychology at the University of Ioannina since autumn 2019. So I call on you, Minister, to make a decision that is not political, but is based on strong academic arguments. Because at this point I agree with you, when you are invoking over all academic arguments. Any decisions must be made only on academic criteria. That is what we are defending here today. We are defending the continuity and development of an educational unit which has to demonstrate rich scientific, educational and developmental activity, which has been linked and cooperated with local institutions and university institutions abroad. If, in fact, you do believe that with the new structure of the two universities you are stepping up higher education, you can enable your plan to run faster where it can be done, and judge whether or not it will work. Any delay or delay will be at the expense of both current teachers and future students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u167	Mr Loverdos has the floor from the Democratic Reconciliation and then, as we have said, the Deputy Minister, Mr Fotakis. Three speakers will follow, and then Mrs Jufi.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u168	Mr President, I, too, asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u169	I have forgotten Mr Famello who wants to support his amendment. If there is no problem, and Mr. Fotakis agrees, I will give you the floor after Mr. Loverdos. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u170	Mr President, Mrs Kefalidou referred to the report of the Scientific Office of the Parliament especially on page 6 (c) and the Minister responsible answered her with his arguments. He's obviously not a legal person and he doesn't understand. But he has legal advisers. Page 6(c) is very clear. It says that the concept of conversion does not exist. It has been possible to upgrade for a long time. Upgrade requires criteria. The criteria must be established. Prerequisites for evaluation. And all that, he means, they don't exist. That is the argument put forward by my colleague. Please the Minister to see it for the second time. Because if he doesn't see it, we're going to say that the ladders understand them for drops of rain, the minister in charge. As far as the amendment we have just seen now is concerned, with very many articles and, above all, on the issues of the Church of Greece, there is a provision, a self-evident article, which has to do with the age limit of the muft. Listen. There is one question here, first of all, which concerns the so-called fragmentation. Seven months ago, it brought an amendment or a draft law - I do not remember - the Minister himself and regulated the issues relating to the jurisdiction of the mushroom, which starts from the moment that all parties concerned agree to be this one of their judges. We said yes. It is now seven months later, and while the President-in-Office of the Council has not yet issued the decree implementing that legislative option - regulation and the mufts are saying they have the age limit of the other judges. It's right. We're supporting it. However, we wonder. Does he realize that his previous statements on the election of a mute no longer apply? Because when you are completely assimilating this judiciary to the rest of the Hellenic Republic, you will also assimilate it to its appearance. Election of a judge in Greece is not right. And there is a constitutional problem in this regard. It is right, too, that the regulations relating to priests, an institution that we had established and which succeeded. Although SYRIZA was then screaming with Turkey and saying no to this institution, we introduced it and succeeded. And right now he says that their term of office should be extended, because these people have to go. At the same time, the direction of Muslim studies at the University of Thessaloniki has not shown a number close to the hundred graduates to understand these positions. It's right. And I personally supported this, without being competent as Minister of Education then to establish it, because these issues regulate the university with its own self-sufficiency, and the IMP did so. Now concerning the amendments concerning the fires and the calamity which it has caused hundreds of families and the hundreds of deaths, I would like to say a few things. Here they parade guilty ministers - politically I mean - with amendments. And I would like to say on this occasion, clarifying the terms and without mocking anyone, that ministerial responsibility has three and not four or two versions. One is the criminal one, where the relevant criminal punishment is provided. The second is the urban one, which means that the Minister individually - if responsible and penalised - has to pay them out of his pocket. And the third - which is the strongest - is the policy, which leads to resignation when it is accepted and confessed by the politically responsible himself. And if he does not, then Parliament has the opportunity to make a motion of censure. In this case the Prime Minister himself accepted that he bears political responsibility and resigning - because that concludes his sentence - these ministers today should not be here. They follow the resignation of the Prime Minister. That is what the rules that we have surrounded with constitutional power in Greece, the United Kingdom, in all the countries of the world that have parliamentary status and which the people show responsible democratic powers and not those of today, which says that it has political responsibility and continues as if nothing had happened. And, Mr President, I am closing. It's not the day for this conversation. You see, however, that there are so many ministers here - guilty, who should not be in their seats right now - and they tell us how many things they will do from now on while they are four years of ministers. And we tell them - and this concerns Ministers and regional authorities - about everything that has not been done in time, such as evacuation, the assessment of the real situations before the Greek people, which was done in a way of covering events that they knew. I am referring to this tragic meeting of a formation of the Ministerial Council under the Prime Minister, who all knew that they had dead and did as if they did not know what is going on, so that they could better settle their communications logically, and I am referring to what they said, that it is the people's fault, that they have said that now, with the logic of the demolition of the arbitrary people, they will resolve what they have said! - and especially the attack on the media. While the whole opposition, all parties, Mr President, have not said a word for three days, in fact, mourning all the issues that have to do with the people who have been lost there, the government from the first time in Sarajevo, has been politicizing. The Prime Minister was talking from there about asymmetric threats and events that trouble him, about the many outbreaks...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u171	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u172	I shall conclude, Mr President. In the evening, Mr President, the debates are then the fault of the channels, and now we have the so-called arbitrary ones brought by the guilty ministers. I heard Mr. Stathakis this morning, which I myself think has arbitrarily legitimised a few months ago...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u173	No, it didn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u174	Yeah, it's done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u175	Of course! And the Minister for Maritime Affairs also signed, who did not tell us why - as Professor Thanasis Diamantopoulou says, my personal friend and colleague, who was there in the Red Port in the water - the hour had not gone to the port ship? All this, Mr President, needs to be answered. With rhetoric, crocodile tears, handing over responsibilities and theories, in fact, absurd, uninstitutional political responsibility, the real responsibilities are not being sidelined. They will be paid in full before the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u176	Mr Famelos has the floor to support his amendment. Five minutes, Minister, I think that's enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u177	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great burden of a placement in the Representation of the Greeks after the loss of so many human lives and obviously also respect for the memory of the people, but also for the support of all their relatives and relatives, as well as those who have seen their property and their lives in great danger. That is why very much attention is needed for the democratic, if you like, to defend this debate, because a possible bombardment by political and journalistic streets must find us prepared and opposing. But what is political responsibility? Political responsibility means dealing with and charging, but also suspending the causes that have led to the loss of our fellow people, but also making sure that no citizen will be caught in a yard or a stream in order to endanger his life. On our part, therefore, you will allow me, Mr President, only on matters of my competence to be placed and not to be taken into account in a catastrophe, in my view, of the pain and the value of human life and of the loss of time-consuming political impressions, which are unfortunately also expressed here. But words have no special value in front of the works. Our Government, in order to suspend the essential causes of the problems, has gone to institutional reforms, at least in the area of my own portfolio, as regards forest maps, which were at least forty years behind, and this delay which was the choice of the previous governments has caused serious problems in the region of Eastern Attica and as a whole. But our own government has brought to Parliament twice the debate on the forestry strategy, to discuss prevention at last and not to run back at a very great cost and life and society and economics. Of course, this government discovered in ministries' drawers the flood risk management plans that in 2012 entered the drawers and ratified them and we have flood risk management plans in our country, as well as we legislated with the new law on the construction of the arbitrary Observatory to remove arbitrary construction procedures, which also for twenty-years have been pending. Unfortunately, we have discovered these days final demolition decisions in Rafina and New Makri, which have twenty-year stays at the service offices. And I'm asking. Who was responsible for it and what is the real responsibility and who is responsible for it and who is charged with it? We will take responsibility for what we are given, and we will proceed to immediate measures, with an amendment that will come shortly. But today we are discussing the amendment to the forest maps which we have introduced. Because the titanium work of forest maps is an essential prevention measure, it favours spatial planning, but also the recognition of where the forest is and where arbitraryness is. I want to ask a question. Who disagrees in Greece that the non-implementation of the forestry maps was just to hide the arbitraryness of forestry legislation and construction? Was there any other reason why forest maps were delaying Greece? The whole society knows. Let's not hide. This was also done in Eastern Attica. Obviously, it is not equal to human life. I will not put it into discussion and confrontation with the value of life, but we will not be subject to political mistakes, which are democratic errors. So we've moved on. We posted for 35% of the country the forest maps. We've already ratified 32%. This year we posted 12% more and we'll be at 17% by the end. We've already compromised the rest of the 45%, because it didn't even exist in a study. And that's an act, it's not words. But what's happened in Attica? Aren't you interested in knowing what has happened in Attica with the maps that we had this serious problem both west and east? The forest maps in East Attica were awarded in 2008, received in 2010, paid by the then government and not posted. The question is: why? What was the political responsibility of the policies entrusted to them, had the tool from forest legislation to combat arbitraryness and did not belong to or validate forest maps? Only five municipalities then sent data: Penteli, Nea Penteli, Marathonas, Gender, Kifisia and Drosia. We have to report to them because they were consistent with the Constitution. Everyone else wasn't, but the governments and the ministers didn't do anything for everyone else. And this government came and completed the matter of forest maps. No longer needs a new forest map in Attica. Within 2018, everyone will be posted in Attica, because 50% of them have been posted since last year. These are the differences. This is practical, in particular, the citizens see it, they are posted. Because when New Democracy came in 2013, it transferred the competence of forest maps to “ECSC S.A.” and since then nothing happened. And ours had to come, if you want, an effort to bring back the flow as it should be. In 2017 maps were posted to Barnabas, Literary, Kadriditi, which are difficult areas. Why don't we say anything about it? As on the other hand, in Petroupoli, Haidari, Cameroon, Aspropyrgos, Illion, in 2018, maps were lifted to Oropus, Syminos, Kalamolos, Markopoulos in 2018. And on the other hand, to Korydalus, to Eleusina. And now, in Agia Paraskevi, in Vrillessia, in Anthusa, in Pallini, in Gerakas, these maps are now posted. Why were they not posted while received by the Ministry of the Environment in 2010 and related to the area we had and victims? But what I want to say is that we must find a solution with the agreement of all of us. The rest of the maps are already on display in the rest of Attica. With our amendment we have asked for an extension by 10 September, because there are areas which, due to summer, are visiting abroad and some of them have had a fire these days. We must give time to object - not to stop the forest maps - until 10 September. We will also give time for the municipalities to come to submit the settlements because, unfortunately, we have fifteen unfinished municipalities - I will submit them if necessary for the Practicals - and twenty-nine who have not made any adjustment to the housing density. We must speed up, because in the area we have, unfortunately, had this great tragedy, there are municipalities that have submitted wrong housing limits, have not submitted residential density and have outside construction plan. We must solve this problem in our country. In this respect, therefore, we should be speeding up, because, unfortunately, the audit carried out by environmental inspectors and construction inspectors in the region has shown that there are also forest law backgrounds in the areas where many of our fellow people have lost their lives. We have announced today - and I conclude with this, Mr President - that to the extent that our twenty-six fellow citizens have died tragically, we have seen that there were arbitrary structures which have never been legitimised - throughout this area - and that this area is a prevalent public forest and in the primary court the public has been entitled to its forest character. Unfortunately, we found that it is in the presidential decree of land use that allows only use of baths and not any construction of first or second houses, and also that fences and casings are within the beach-agialou zone. I refer to the eight meters that are the public space. Moreover, they violate Article 23 of the Tritsis Law, Law No.1337/1983, which prohibits fence and enclosure at some distance from the sea and the beach. These are issues that the construction services had to find. They're not government services, they're self-government services. There are already courts. All of this must be used as a Delegation as lessons to avoid happening again. That is why we are calling for everyone's support to complete the work of forest maps and speed up the process that will once and for all resolve the issue of arbitraryness. Whatever we do - I must return to that, Mr President, and I beg your pardon - we cannot restore human life. That is why it is tragic and shocking to talk about these issues from the Step of the House. I would therefore like us all to have a united attitude together and to overcome political exploitation, to solve the real problem of life and progress in the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u178	The floor will be taken by the Deputy Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr. Konstantinos Fotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to say that I am not going to monitor Mr Loverdos in this storm that characterised his intervention. This government, through the Prime Minister's mouth, took political responsibility for the tragic events. It remains to be seen, when these are investigated to the end, what will the governments that have previously done and who also have their part in responsibility? I shall fully agree with Mr Famello on what he has said. At the moment, two things are going on: firstly, projects and not words. Secondly, it is important to stand close to each other, because no one is spared. Now, I would like to focus on time economy considerations in two of the innovative interventions included in the bill. One is the one concerning the integration of TEIs into universities. The second concerns the establishment of university research centres. These are deeply reformed interventions that contribute to the new productive model that the country needs, which is based on the knowledge-based economy. Even more, what I think these interventions are doing is helping to shape the landscape that is being eradicated by the upcoming, so-called fourth industrial revolution. Here too, we must look very seriously - the government will do this - what will be the role in this new landscape, which will be characterised by the impact of new technologies on means and production methods. I would like to note that in physics inertia is a force that opposes every move forward. The refusal to move from an outdated status quo is such an element that resists any change. This, unfortunately, is very clearly reflected in certain positions expressed by the opposition, in terms of the new map of higher education and the enhanced role of technological education, which is the main objective. It is a role that incorporates and enriches those quality elements that are undeniably present in the TEIs and in the universities. This is the case after discussion between the institutions involved and between the institutions and the government. This is a debate that has been taboo over time for any serious interference in the effort to upgrade education to any reform. It is therefore about complicating forces between the TEIs and the universities. The government, at the moment, dares and opens up this issue that - as I said - for decades has been taboo. For this reason, the vertical refusal shown by certain universities in any debate of this type is, in essence, the most extreme expression of inertia and anachronism. In recent years, before the SYRIZA Government, we have regularly heard about mergers, about divisions of academic and research institutions. Some of these mergers have, in fact, been clearly mechanistic and unorthodox in the past and were essentially the result of the Memorandum cheques and often led - I would say - to miscarriages, to mergers without any substantial, multiplicational effect. The current attempt to integrate quality sections of the TEIs into universities and the simultaneous enrichment of university schools with issues of modern science clearly differs from this previous approach. It's not enforced by anyone. Initiatives are taken by the academic community itself, always on the basis of the upgrading of universities and TEIs. The state provides, through institutional intervention, the framework and the conditions for this to be achieved. I think there is a basic central criterion here that we should take into account. It is the criterion concerning added value, added academic, scientific, economic and social value. That is the criterion, I think, which should determine all these actions and this should be done in detail, with open eyes, being out of the box. The combination of these four elements should therefore be taken into account in any such project, with the need to make better use of the human resources and infrastructure available to the institutions. Therefore, the criterion was met by the discussion at the University of Ioannina and the Ionian University. On the basis of this, I would like to look at something else: the establishment of the University Research Centres, that is, the centres which will start to operate within universities and how they differ - because this is very important - from the research centres under Law4310, namely the National Executives. In this case the question is as follows: Does there result added value from the establishment of the University Research Centres? Why do we not remain in the shape of the Research University Institutes? The second answer: Only in very few cases - I would say - the Universities of Research Institutes have operated as one would expect and have actually created multiplier benefits. In most cases they were personal interventions by teachers who actually led to either distortions or had absolutely no impact on what was happening. The identification of the University Research Centres and their differentiations from the research centres operating on a national scale is something to do with the following: Universities have an initial target that is to provide an educational base and at the same time to create new knowledge and diffusion of this knowledge. In this context, a university department is invited to provide training in all the main directions of its sector. For example, a Physics Department should include all areas of physics, atomic, molecular physics, physical elementary particles, etc., in order to complete student education. The integration of specific sections of the TEIs into this university structure cannot enrich and modernise the cognitive objects offered by the university if it is done in a way of engineering without an examination, without a discussion which has been discussed. And that is expected. These discussions took precedence both at the University of Ioannina and at the Ionian University. At the same time, university needs to do research, free research to produce new knowledge, otherwise it would be a mere educational-type institution. From this point of view, the University Research Centres have two objectives. The first is to deal with the consortium of various thematic areas of the university, especially if these areas are multidisciplinary in order to maximise the international presence of the university, as well as its international competitiveness. There is a second element, particularly concerning the regional universities which have to play a role in the development of the region. And when I say regional development, I mean not only economic but also cultural. In each region there are particular features that university research centres operate within universities will achieve this. On the other hand, the existence of National Research Centres has another target. These are self-sustaining national centres, where there the choices are targeted and made by the state in areas that either are of national importance or may contribute to the economic development of the country or in areas where they are very important, for example in the provision of scientific services to the state. Detailed examples are the National Observatory of Athens, which operates, the Geodynamic Institute, the Hellenic Marine Research Centre, ELKETH, for the study of marine pollution, which has recently been dealt with and the activities of the National Centre of Dimocritus and FORTH, the Foundation for Technology and Research in Crete, in areas of peak, such as microelectronics and nanoelectronics.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u180	Minister, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u181	I'll be right over. Consequently, there is a clear differentiation between the Research Centres of L.4310 and the University Research Centres and, of course, there are different feasibility and sustainability criteria that characterise each case. I would like to end by stressing that the strong osmosis among all the country's research structures is increasing their chances of success and with legislative interventions that have already existed and those that come in the future will stimulate as much as possible the potential for such an osmosis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u182	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Mitafidis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u183	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u184	By the way, until Mr Mitafidis comes up in Step, I would ask the Minister, because there are also the parliamentary amendments - Mr Stathakis is also expected, of course, to support one or two amendments, if I am not mistaken - to speak at some point about the parliamentary amendments. Are you ready?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u185	I'm ready, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u186	Good. Can we hear Mr. Mitafidis and then take the floor? Is there a problem?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u187	No, give him the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u188	Mr. Mitafidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u189	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to confront the moral atrocities of a zero-population criticism which is being made by the opposition, which is reaching the limits of the drought, on the basis of the tragedy that this country is experiencing and which is a tragedy for cause. Of course, I should like to express my full gratitude for the slapping of the dead by the Nazi gang of the Golden Dawn, which, unfortunately, is in this Parliament by the vote of the Greek people. I would like to say a few words, first of all, about the poor provisions contained in the bill on primary and secondary education, and in particular about the part concerning technical education. These provisions lead to early training, as has been pointed out, particularly on the part of the JRC. On the contrary - and I can tell you that on the grounds of knowledge - there have been long requests from the educational movement. On this occasion, I would like to say that I have tabled an amendment concerning the 'A NEW AUTHORITIES' programme and, of course, enables school units that do not have a Tax Register number to manage the funds relating to action plans under the 'A NEW AUTHORITY AT PAYMENT' programme. The other thing I want to say, ladies and gentlemen, why should we not forget this, as memory is not an abstract obligation to the past, but it must be a conscious act, is that as tomorrow three thousand prisoners in the Nazi camps of death, namely in Auschwitz, Roma in origin, were exterminated in the context of the cleanliness of the Aria tribe. This day has emerged as World Day of Remembrance for the Roma genocide. There will be this event tomorrow in Zappeion. With reference to this non-abstract memory debt - we will also hear it from the relevant Deputy Minister, Dimitris Baxvanakis - I would like to say that the government is implementing a legislative initiative that meets the demand of Roma women in the settlement of the Thessaloniki Rosemary for the establishment of a Second Chance School. I submit the relevant document. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Mitafidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You also know that the government has set as a prerequisite for the granting of the Social Solidarity Benefit in the coming months, the possession of compulsory education, and that is an incentive for the Roma. This, at the same time, is a very strong social measure - for those who know the Tropotamou region - in the context of strengthening the Roma and combating discrimination. That is how we understand our debt towards history, against today, against the winter layers of Greek society and those that are still subject to a non-discrimination regime. And I would like to ask this and it is not a rhetorical question: so far the Democratic Alliance has accused us of declaring the TEIs. I have already heard Mr Gregorakos - if I have heard him well - say that we are leading to a 'television' of the HEIs. Decide what's going on, tell us, let's know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u190	Thank you, Mr. Mitafidis. Mrs Dimitrios Sevastakis will then speak with SYRIZA and then the Parliamentary Representative of the Centroon Union will follow.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u191	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u192	Yes, Minister, you have the floor, to tell us what you are accepting Parliament's amendments. For each amendment, if you wish, say the specific number and the general number.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u193	Amendment No 1715/174 is accepted. Amendment No 1716/175 is also accepted. Amendment No 1717/176 is accepted, Amendment No 1721/180, Amendment No 1722/181. Amendment No 1723/182, by number 1724/183, is also accepted. The amendment under No 1725/184 is not accepted. At the same time, Amendment No 1732/191 is also accepted. The following ministerial amendments have already been accepted in committee: Amendment No 1718/177, Amendment No 1719/188 and Amendment No 1720/179. Amendment No 1726/185, Amendment No 1728/187, Amendment No 1729/188, Amendment No 1730/189 and Amendment No 1731/190 is now accepted. Our amendments relate to postgraduate scenarios organised in research institutions, the acceptance as an equal master of the MAH, the Register of Religious Operations. There are topics of mushrooms and some topics of the Church of Greece. If I have to, I can do an analysis. I would also like to put forward three legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u194	Here, Mr Sevastakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u195	Thank you very much. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] One can start by the owners of the lament, who unilaterally claim the right on the one hand to mourn and, on the other hand, to incriminate, by using false evidence, fast websites. What do they want to strengthen in this way? These are questions that, unfortunately, parliamentary everyday life does not allow them. Also, it makes me respond to a reservation made by many speakers of the Opposition on Day, or why a question of education - each bill answers a question - to come to this treaty. It comes precisely because there is a need for parliamentary procedures that strengthen cohesion and try to respond to issues of visa and self-conception, namely issues and questions of our people. The bill under discussion is trying to monitor what is happening in academic activity, linking institutions. It is trying to respond, in the way and in the regulatory provisions it incorporates, to what is happening anyway. The interconnection of the institutions is, in fact, because the technological treaty is such. Also, there's a peculiarity. When, in the 1980s, PASOK arrested the concept of institutional dispersion, many denounced it as merely favourable or in response to localist demands. However, dispersion as a characteristic, namely the diversity of institutions, does not mean that institutions do not communicate, that their cognitive fields are not cross-checked and that they are not forced by this possibility of reconstructing and redefining cognitive objects. We therefore have a dispersion of institutions which does not mean the division of institutions does not mean that their educational fabric is dispersed. I think that at the same time, which is the case, i.e. the possibility of announcing research results, work and even posting diplomatic work, that is, the possibility of crossing the information which constitutes the teaching event, does not have as a prerequisite and the identity card. At the same time, it is no longer necessary to identify the institutions, to find them in the same natural geometric area. This freedom opens up completely different educational obstacles and internationally. Evidence of this is that Greek institutions have absolute and growing international relations. The University of the Aegean, as you know, Minister, with the insecurity of its diaspora, has managed to have a very strong international view and evaluation, as well as other institutions. I think the bill is trying to rationalize it. I hope that there will also be a corresponding effort for the other regions, not only in cognitive but also in education. The leaderships of universities are organic parts of the educational problems. They're not facilities on the foundations. Their agreement and their improvement proposals therefore mean that the legislative provision is in a right direction. A bill - we've seen it before and said it before - does not solve all the issues, but a very large part of the emancipation of educational objects, the reconstruction of objects. Here I also answer this question and anguish that has expressed a lot of people that we have relatives next door. This is not the case, because cognitive borders are also being redefined within the modern treaty, and the issues of the redesign of cognitive objects are very open and there is a huge adaptability. Under these circumstances we should judge the bill and propose the concrete corrections that may be made. On these terms, I think that we can also approach the wider problem of education, which will, moreover, be reintroduced in the next steps of legislative initiatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u196	Mr Saridis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, education is an area in which the debate on a national policy should be exhausted, which, over time, would exceed a government's horizon. Such issues, such as education, are the country's debt, as is demographic. On all these issues, discussions should be exhausted. As far as education is concerned, it should be exhausted because it concerns the future of the country, the future of its youth, the future of its children, the future of this youth that is showing these days, the tragedy and the tragedy we are experiencing, that it has values and ideals. This youth also has dreams and ambitions and because of the economic situation we are experiencing in our country, she looks for her future away from it. I really would not have taken the floor to talk about the bill and its provisions, since our rapporteur, Mr Megamoustakas, spoke clearly and frankly. The Association of Centres over the three years in the Greek Parliament, with its very few resources, has proposals in the field of education, which it submits every time, in the committees and in the plenary session, on issues of education. These proposals are supported daily. I have taken the floor for an amendment on questions of the Church and it has rules on the pensions of mufts. When this amendment came into my hands, the first comment I made was a scenery in the mist. I'm going to explain why that expression went through my mind. Ladies and gentlemen, when I heard about the expulsion of the Russian diplomats, I sought the relevant comment of Maximus, which I was very surprised to hear about the responsibility of protecting national sovereignty. Later, I heard the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Kotzias, declare in an interview the end of his diplomacy, and today the Minister for Education comes and adds two articles to a late amendment. These two articles excavately excavate the two mosquitoes. How are all this connected when you look at them from that corner that makes you stand, you don't want to, why do you have your responsibilities as a member of the Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs to stand up and see them with the perspective that you need to see? What could, ladies and gentlemen, have the Russians who have not done by the Turks of the Komotini Consulate? What more have they done by Mr Erdogan's people about the practice of Turkish secret services to move on to civilian kidnappings at noon from the streets of foreign sovereign states? The activities of the Consulate in Thrace, I think, even the stones know it. They know the political parties and, indeed, very well, what is happening in Thrace, what consulate people are doing there in relation to the mouvets, practicing prosperously and ruthlessly the action of the fakes, entangled by the Muslim community and creating many serious problems in their daily lives. So, knowing that for decades our country, Greece, in the face of the aggressive and malicious action of the consulate, has had to do something much worse, something much more serious than the Turkish do so far, otherwise the Greek Ministry of Foreign Affairs would not see fit to make it clear that it does not identify the actions of the deported with the official Russian diplomacy nor Maximos would speak of the need to protect national sovereignty. Today the Minister comes without any warning, without any information from Parliament and brings us to two articles, without any provision for the next day. I say this because it is basically our main objection to this amendment. It is the only one of the amendments that have been tabled which, for this very reason, the Centro Association will be placed negatively. So it comes without a provision for the next day and ends the already existing framework in Thrace, a framework that has developed in many decades. We should first have the President-in-Office's decree which gave us what was the next day and then this amendment would come to the Greek Parliament, because, from today on to vote, the two mufts are now at the Ministry's disposal. The tragic moment, however, which is happening, is that the Ministry is moving in this direction, without knowing exactly what dawns on the Greek Muslims of Thrace. You are trying to put an end to this, Minister, but without telling us what you have decided, what will apply from now on. By voting in favour, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, this amendment basically welcomes the government's practice of surpriseing Parliament and devoting the provisions of the Constitution, but also the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the House, thereby undermining the work of the relevant parliamentary committees, resulting in the frustration of democratic procedures and the frustration of the Greek citizens that these practices lead essentially to the total deception of them, from what is happening in our democracy. And as I have said many times - and I will not get tired either of repeating - abstention is the greatest national threat, the most insidious of all, the most dangerous of all that our country is facing today. By declaring Parliament's work, you are destroying democracy, because you are harming citizens' confidence in it. So in the field of foreign policy, as a member of the committee responsible, I have the political responsibility to explain to Greek citizens that Parliament is not in any way involved in what the government is doing in national matters. Ladies and gentlemen, today's speech on political responsibilities is very good and very good. As the Central Association, we have not forgotten one day what the responsibilities are for us, and that is why today, in the context of these responsibilities, we denounce that, for the issues we call national issues, the Greek Parliament has no information at all, no parliamentary coverage or legalisation. We must explain to the Greek citizens and warn them that the government is doing its heads in national matters without informing Parliament. We cannot oblige her to respect the constitution and parliamentary procedures. You had the time. We offered him this year. You have had the opportunity to pursue the parliamentary consensus. As early as 2017, we have asked a question - and I am presenting it in the Minutes - to the Prime Minister on this issue and we have asked the Central Association to inform us about what is finally happening with the mufts. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Saridis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This question has been asked for more than eight months. You don't ask and you don't consult anyone. When you do this for general policy issues, you are simply ideological. But when you do so on matters of national sovereignty, on national issues, then let me tell you that you may also be dangerous. You have no parliamentary coverage or legitimisation for any toys or possibly - for people who know things a little more than the ordinary citizen - you are bazaaring on foreign policy issues. I shall also go to comment on another amendment, which we shall vote in favour of. As I said, all the amendments will be adopted positively. I am going to talk about Amendment No 1728, because I would like to repeat a few things - and I am particularly pleased that there are many ministers in the Senate - on Mrs Ahtsoglou's amendment, as well as on the other amendments of this kind, which officially have a purpose, such as the relief of firefighting in Eastern Attica. We need these amendments. There will be no spaghetti from the Centro Association on this matter. Political responsibilities will be attributed. The Centro Association has also called for a debate in plenary on these responsibilities. Before that, however, the Greek Government will have to take its own step, because it has responsibility, because it owes an apology. It doesn't solve anything. Officially, therefore, in this amendment I would like to inform the ministers, who do not know, that in August 2015 Mr.4336 was voted. There, therefore, in paragraph 16, paragraph (d) of this Act, which was passed by the overwhelming majority of the Greek Parliament, is retained - I have said so in previous Plenary Assembly - a sum of money from the Greek borrowers every time they pay their instalments, precisely for the purpose of alleviating those affected by natural disasters. Right now that we're talking about this account has more than a billion euros, Ministers, if you don't know it. I repeat that we are talking about L.4336, paragraph 16 of subparagraph D.12. In there, then, it's some money. You have to come in touch with the Minister of Finance - who has probably not understood it - and tell him that there is more than one billion euro in there precisely for this purpose, that is to say, to give it to the people affected by natural disasters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u198	The Foreign Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr Merope Jufi, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u199	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today with very fresh memories of an unspeakable national tragedy, expressing our suffering in public, but continue to respond to the expectations of young people who see and fight for their future. It is very difficult, however, even at such times of shocking loss, on the one hand, to support the people who have lost everything on the other and, on the other hand, to rebuild our powers and continue. It goes without saying, therefore, that the Government is taking measures - already as amendments and will continue - to heal the wounds as much as possible, to strengthen the families of the victims, to help and to strengthen the affected, to restore material damage, both to individuals and to public infrastructures and, of course, to the end and to provide a orderly return to responsibility. Our ministry is also involved in this effort. Measures to relieve and support have already been announced. And I would like this step to thank the solidarity of the educational community, together with many others, for the opening up of schools in the region with a view to the creative employment of children, but also for the support of their families, whenever they need it, and also for the Ministry's Workers' Association for the concession of the camp area for use by the affected. Today, however, we are discussing something else that has its own meaning. We are talking about a bet of our time, the achievement of the single education and research area, which is a new scope for a new policy, which on the other hand has to deal with years of problems in the educational and research environment. In this sense we are called upon to overcome a real given situation, such as geographical isolation, fragmentation, overlapping, staff deficits, relatively limited use of research results, failure to integrate new scientists and their mass fleeing to countries and institutions abroad. These conditions, therefore, because we are legislating, in conjunction with modern scientific and social and local needs, today, after an exhaustive and fertile process, in my view, with the stakeholders, in tabling this draft law, which is a careful legislative initiative. In the previous period, this was said. Proposals were submitted by the institutions. There have been numerous meetings with the members of the committee with the collective bodies. A wide range of consensus was ensured. The university community as a whole participated in the process of electing new management organs and a majority of those candidates who critically supported the project. And let me say that, in my opinion, this is a healthy process, where there have been many changes. We have all moved from our initial positions and opinions, and through a synthetic character of public and multidisciplinary dialogue we have reached broad consensus that is dealt with positively by local communities. Ladies and gentlemen, this legislative initiative does not lead to incorporation, but to unconditional universityisation of TEIs. We followed the opposite way from the usual course, starting from the bottom up and, unfortunately, the adversarial will allow me to say, it is limited to vague remarks which are far from reality, objections to unconsciousness, to non-existent dialogue, to self-interests, to services, to photographic provisions and to benefit from them. There is nothing falseer than what has, unfortunately, been tabled in the public debate. On the basis of the disagreement between colleagues who are speaking it is unfortunately the slogan of the earlier ATHENA project, which was also the only applicable counter-proposal that provided for mergers, abolitions of TEIs and universities. And remember that this bill abolished eighteen university departments and thirty TEIs and, furthermore, twenty others had an end date until the end of 2018. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the Vice-President of Parliament, Ms. MARios GEORGIADIS.]] However, those policies that are responsible have obviously not been apologised. They have chosen, as I have said before, a tax-free, poisonous, derogatory comments against everything: rectoral authorities, ICP members, mayors, ministers, without a substantial alternative, even now, possibly by means of a sole statement that the maximum area of education is privatised or some criticisms, such as on the river side, for spatial distribution. The dispersion, however, - and I say this - existed before a number of existing universities and TEIs and could not be ignored for many reasons, for example, there were infrastructures which were important, and indeed, in this process of transition under this bill. We consider that, with this bill, higher education institutions, which have left their mark indelibly on the progress of science, can offer much more to the academic community and the international community, but also to the wider area that hosts them. As an organic member of the University of Ioannina, as I have said in my previous position, I think I have the opportunity to put myself on an experiential footing. Many of the changes proposed have been part of our university's strategic planning for many years. Such proposals, which have been a long time since they were implemented, were the establishments of the Nursing, Agronomic School, the Polytechnic, the Research Centre, and even proposals that have been positively evaluated in internal and external evaluations. Therefore, let me say that it is inconsistent to conclude that this Treaty is completely mature to move in this direction, and that is why we have positive decisions by the Conferences of Universities and TEI, a direction that is also linked to the development of the region, is part of broader development planning. There have been many massive discussions, including within the framework of the development conferences with extroverted and cross-border actions, which is a vision of the wider society, a direction that further strengthens vocational education, contrary to hypocritical tears to demolition of the HEIs, and which the political leadership is trying to develop with very consistently and a large number of relevant interventions and legislative initiatives, to which my colleague, Mr Baxvanakis, will refer in detail. [[At this point, the end of the speech bell of the Secretary-General hits the warning bell.]] I would just like to say about these two-year programmes that we have in the higher education institutions - I will need a little more time, Mr President, please - to bring the prestige and depth of university education and to give level 5 diplomas, with international recognition. And so we intend to do so, with privileged, perhaps even free access to the ESDP graduates. The story of the University of Ioannina is long. It is already a large university, a university that gives reliable and high prestige free postgraduate degrees, and we believe that along with the Epirus TEI, which had a corresponding development, they are part of the region's heavy industry. So, in the opposite of the isotopodic policy of previous years, we are making use of the number of research, the important role played by these institutions in the region, and we are moving forward in a coordinate way so that we can take our place in better days. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] Especially in areas such as Epirus, which is the southern one - two minutes, I will need even - and the most sparsely populated region of the country, with one of the lowest per capita GDP in the European Union, this bill can create those conditions that will respond to the challenges of the immediate and ultimate future, since it is planned to become an almost full institution with thirty-five thousand students. For example, I also mentioned to committees, the establishment of the School of Agriculture at a place traditionally in agricultural production, the integration of Nursing and Accountability Departments at the School of Health Sciences of the University of Ioannina with large organized hospitals, can help to move forward and provide very reliable services at the place. This reform is also being run by another visionary, neuro-algalgic: the internationalisation of EITs. These large institutions can play a leading role in our country and internationally and be recorded in the international academic charter. For the University of Ioannina, I believe that it can play a very important role not only in Northwest Greece, but also in the wider region of the western Balkans and even play a leading and pioneering role in this direction. We have heard reservations about the establishment of the Scientific Research Institute. Let me say that I consider this to be very important, because it can cure scientific objects in our region with great tradition and with great potential older and younger, relating to culture, local tradition, arts, the modern Greek secretariat to become Yannina first in the letters, but not even in the near future and in the fringes. In conclusion, I would like to stress once again that the current treaty is an absolutely mature one to go on. Of course, everyone's reservation is whether there will be the necessary resources and the necessary support with staff. Today the Minister specifically committed himself to supporting this effort and has given examples of writing since the previous period with the optional strengthening of higher public education institutions. The bet, then, is what the foundations will do. To implement with their own powers and strengthen them, to put priorities, to have hard work to make this type of reform progress effectively, in a positive light. I think - and I conclude with this - that this process that has been going through a large one and, in most cases, a very open dialogue allows us to optimise that we are moving along a common path. And we are deeply convinced that this can help one thing very important, to reverse the massive loss of the spiritual capital of our country, giving employment, progress and production opportunities to young scientists in the country. Young people and young people from this place can make use of, implement their ideas, skills and high-training here, at the Greek public university. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u200	Thank you, Mrs. Undersecretary. Mr. Katsis has the floor for five minutes. Immediately after Mrs. Vaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to express my sincere condolences to the families of the victims of the recent tragedy in East Attica. The value of human life is above all, and that is why the state's duty is to stand alongside all those affected by the fires and correct errors and distortions of decades that have led us to this tragic account. Although charging the days is great, we are here today, with a very important bill in front of us, which concerns the University of Ioannina and the Ionian University. This bill is another major step of the Ministry of Education to create a single area for higher education and research. The overall reform attempted at higher education through the Single Space Strategy is colossal from the bottom. This explains its partial implementation. It comes to cure structural weaknesses of decades, which have had a negative impact both on the institutions themselves and their functioning, and to open new horizons to higher education, research and local communities. But what did we receive, ladies and gentlemen? Universities and TEIs overlapping in a cognitive object with the pretext of obsolete separation between the pure science and its applications, a large number of institutions and mainly the TEIs without professional rights, and only the papers, sub-funding, sub-delegation and an anarchist landscape in research. And within all of this came the project "ATHENA" and gave the charismatic shot. Close sections with heated economics, irrational mergers with micropolitical services, redeployment of the area of higher education, without strategic planning and with zero consultation with the academic community. On foot, backward to neoliberal obsessions. In short, a disaster. As in the rest of Greece, we experienced it firsthand in 2013, with the transfer of Igoumenitsa to Mesolonghi from Igoumenitsa and the abolition of the Department of Tourism in one night with a presidential decree. New Democracy and PASOK, which was supposed to be in favour of connecting the educational market and entrepreneurship, transferred a Department of Fisheries to a county that is the first to produce fish farms in Greece in Mesolonghi, because a Stateer, perhaps, had more votes there and was struggling with the geography of certain teachers. You are not even neo-liberal, you are a jaundice in my opinion, and indeed, today some people have the courage to wait happily for us to repeat their own mistakes in order to wash their shames and their enormous responsibilities. But they are misguided, like so many times, while we are still waiting for them to tell us what they are proposing. Absolutely nothing. Full political impotence to the limits of political decline. This draft law reverses this mortal practice, promotes synergies between the institutions, with a view to their overall upgrading, while cultivating a culture of dialogue and consensus from the bottom to the sensitive area of education, so that at some point this endless sewage - was being cut off. The academic community showed the greatest possible consensus in committees, while local communities have embraced and have high expectations of the project. Finally, mainstream society and economy highlights its comparative advantages, such as its primary production and its cross-border strategic position, by investing in knowledge. The Agronomic School in Arta is established, consistently reclaimed by all the Continents, the Polytechnic School in Ioannina is strengthened with two new departments, as we need a great deal of technocratic competence, while health sciences are strengthened, as is the humanitarian studies that have a great tradition in the country. In our time, Thesprotia sees itself in the new map of higher education and looks at the future with optimism. Since the first October 2018, the Translation and Interpretation Department in Igoumenitsa is established, while the members of the Igoumenitsa Department of Business Administration and former Foreign Language Applications are part of the new Translation and Interpretation Department. The continuing studies of those who are already studying and those who will be introduced into the existing section will be carried out this year. Finally, with the legislative improvements brought by the Minister, on a unanimous proposal from the institutions, its function following the decisions of the collective bodies of the university, as defined by the self-employed, is placed at the latest in the academic year 2021-2022, as it takes a reasonable period to plan the new department on sustainable terms and to be staffed with the appropriate staff, taking time and careful steps. The adoption of an upper limit on the establishment is also a golden breakthrough between the political initiative and respect for the constitutionally regulated self-government, which concerns all the new sections, which are established and which are not already existing. There is a clear State commitment to support the new section by all means, and the institutions' prerogatives have also been placed with positive comments on this in the Committees. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like your tolerance a little. At least the Continental MPs and MPs of the Ionian Islands have a small tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u202	We don't know it like that, Mr. Katsey. You've got a minute, but don't stand out.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u203	All right, Mr. President. I'll try to finish. But how was opposition placed on this data? Allow me to make a little tripartite comment, which has a political substance. In fact, was there not a New Democracy colleague from Epirus or the Ionian Sea to propose the bill, but only the worthwhile colleague elected in Athens, otherwise? Anyone? Apparently, semantics isn't random. You cannot actually close your eyes nor go against academic institutions and students to the comfort of the opposition group of the Chief Kyriaku. I would like to reply to my colleague and fellow Member, Mr Yoyakas. Mr Yoyakas asked the Ministry of Education to work immediately in the new department. Really, Mr. Yoyaka, who are you kidding? First of all, have you convinced your party before making a proposal to the Ministry? First convince your party, unless you are on another line, because your rapporteur, as well as PASOK, has recommended the abolition or rather the non-function of a section only on geographical terms, while they have not analysed the subject at all. That is the first question. Secondly, where were you in committees when we consulted the bill? You were gone. You were not even here to discuss such an important issue for the future of the region. I also expect you to vote in favour of the bill, because in public, during the consultation period, you were calling for changes, which were adopted by the Ministry of Education, as far as the teachers are concerned, but also for the time limits for the new section. I would like to refer to the dear Mr Stylian.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u204	Finish this, Mr. Katsey.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u205	Mr Stylion, what do you have to say that you have acquired an Agronomic School in Arta for years, but you have never done while your colleagues - you have been a professor at the Epirus TEI - overwhelmingly speaking, most of them - for the sake of the bill? Really, what do you have to say? The same applies to all other colleagues in the Opposition on Epirus and the Ionian Islands.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u206	Come on, Mr. Comrade. It's been seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u207	I shall conclude, Mr President. Your political poverty is obvious. You have no proposal. All you can produce as an idea for higher education is the "Athena", which only you insist to defend, by foot, and by the Democratic Partnership. Tell us, indeed, gentlemen of the Democratic Alliance, what you propose. Which entity backed you? You have no vision of developmental, regional or national as to how the map of education will follow developments? The answer is simple: How much you care about higher education in Epirus or Ionian or anywhere in the country. Your strategic aiming is to shrink and reap it for the sake of private education and private institutions, who only give degrees of doubtful quality to anyone who has money to earn profits from a parasitic businessman. That's the truth. We are going to move forward with the new education map, to the post-secondary technical training of PESA children with two years of need, as the country will have a huge problem with middle-level specialist technical work personnel in a few years' time. Last sentence: We will thus conclude a very dense and productive four-year period in education, which includes consistent requests from the student movement and from the academic community: the abolition of institutions councils, free postgraduate courses, the reoccupation of dismissals by universities and teachers, the increase of funds and research structures, the year of the PES, the two-year pre-school education, the upgrading of special education with young staff and structures. We still have a lot to do, but we're on the right track. I call on the opposition to reconsider, I urge you to adapt to reality and to vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u208	That's a big suggestion, Mr. Katsey. Ladies and gentlemen, several times the Bureau has asked us to take a little notice of the time. Mr. Katsis arrived at nine minutes. You have agreed to reduce the time to five minutes. To have a tolerance and an elasticity for a minute, to understand it. Do not exhaust the patience and tolerance of the Bureau. I'm going to have to close the microphone myself, and I don't want the last few days, which are now before the vacation to get into this process. Mrs Vassiliou has the floor now, and immediately after that, Minister Stathakis has asked for the floor for an amendment. Come on, Mrs. Vakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is really difficult to take the floor in my dual capacity as the Bulgarian Prime Minister and the assistant professor of the Ionian University, which I have the pleasure and honour of serving since 2005. As I said in the Committee on Educational Affairs, it is not just our daily work, but our life horizon, and most of all, when the university is not just a job. Any critical remarks - to clarify my position too - are always made in a positive spirit and in an effort to improve the academic institution in which I am serving. We are here and for some of us, and politics is not a profession. So I begin with the situation we have received. The arbitrariness and arbitrariness of higher education, which legalised and reproduced the wicked eye closures in local players, chambers, mayors, election clienteles, hoteliers, Greece of 'rooms to let', all these, unfortunately, do not allow micro-corrections and measles, but bulldozers. Unfortunately, we do not legislate in tertiary education in empty air. Crime has been done with an unequal and unreasonable development and an unreasonable construction. Unfortunately, as much as the political leadership in question tried to operate solely on the basis of the impartiality of the academic criterion of the design of the academic map against landscapes, it did not succeed. In Greece, the "every city and school, every village and department" prevailed. A combination of cognitive objects, a chaos with professional rights, sections that worked decently and with international demands, and others that have fallen, smuggled and become a simple title. What could be done in this setting? The philosophy of the bill is dictated by the need to implement a third road, which will circumvent both the "Skylla" of a violent closure of the TEIs, but also the "Hrybd" of their equally violent and irrational superiorization, which would refer to as many of us as we lived in England in early 1990 when at night the "polytechnics" became universities, in order that education, from good and value in itself, degenerates into a tool and is designed with only needs of the market, to be made in many markets. So, should we turn it off? This is the second solution. Here, then, Armageddon, who would listen to the Organic - I will say euphemism "Athena Plan" would not solve problems, open wounds. He would dictate only, as he did, from a cost savings for price, with litres of human sacrifices on his altar. It is therefore a good solution that has been chosen: making use of TEI structures, workshops and staff to blood and strengthen regional universities and creating university synergies, with the philosophy of coexisting with the biotechnology laboratory and literary translation with the business park. Critics and personal opinions I have also expressed in the Committee on Morphics with a view - I repeat - to contribute positively as a university student and to avoid any problems of overlapping cognitive objects. I want to hang up with some positive one. I would therefore like to say that, in positive measure - which has been done by legislative improvement - the creation of a Institute for Historical Studies, which covers all periods of history. And I'm not saying that to cut the ribbon, like a colleague from the opposition said. It does not become an academic void, it is made with yeasts, with thirty-five years of infrastructure, international presence, international research, very worthwhile doctoral thesis, international conferences of the only self-determination section in Greece of the history department, one of the architects was the late Spyros Asdrahas with interdisciplinary approaches. Finally, I should like to say - to avoid misunderstandings - that we welcome, in fact, the new parts which will be created, in the hope and the hope that they will not become an empty shell content, an empty shirt. And in order to do this - I am sure the means have been found - there must of course be resources to cover operating expenses, equipment, so that history is not repeated as a tragedy or as a farce and that we do not get to a point where we can send our students to some academic exile in buildings, which have no libraries, have no computers, workshops, in other words, no connection with academic become. Finally, to conclude with that, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say this. If we had to design ex nihilo in an uninhabited area the academic map - it is my personal opinion and I imagine that various academics share it - I think the geographical spread is not good. Unfortunately, this is not possible. All this was designed, ready, found. I believe, however, that a university deserves its name as such, when it has a critical mass that makes it a community, a community that creates a marginal cultural and intellectual atmosphere and is a university with a central library, interdisciplinary and synergy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, Mrs. Vaki. Mr Stathakis, Minister for the Environment and Energy, has the floor for an amendment, and immediately thereafter the Parliamentary Representative of the River, Mr Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u211	Ladies and gentlemen, the day after tomorrow of a national tragedy, the biggest we have experienced in the past 15 years, it is difficult to have a debate, but it will also continue in political and judicial terms and so on. However, a short-term relief measure for the affected has been closed. Today, we are bringing together a number of urgent arrangements that seek to cure or speed up - if you want - the current system, which involves selective interventions and demolitions, and we are doing so with the amendment that we have put forward. This amendment today does two things. Firstly, it introduces a parallel procedure, with regard to the existing procedure, for the identification of arbitrary and demolition. I would remind you that the classic process is the town planning, the council of the municipality, which determines the objections, the final designation, the judicial dispute and the transfer to the decentralised administration, which is also responsible for the demolition itself. In the face of this process, at the same time, and for a transitional period, until the new institution, which is responsible for residential derogations, demolitions, arbitrary, etc., is the law that we have already adopted - I would remind you that this institution is the Local Regional Observatorys of the Structured Environment, so this competence is transferred, in this amendment, to the Ministry of Energy and the Environment, by means of an amendment, which allows the Ministry of Energy and Environment, using the RIS Commissioners, to proceed with the identification of arbitrary constructions and their demolition, by means of a ministerial decision. This procedure makes a great deal of abbreviation in administrative procedures. There's no field of administrative objection. It has direct legal protection, i.e. within 15 days one can appeal to the CoC and exclusively to the CoC, otherwise the act is directly enforceable. This is the one process, which - I repeat - is transitional until the regional areas are built and creates parallels to the municipality, which allows the Ministry, using its own mechanism, to accelerate this process. This is the intervention which is being made here. Of course, once the ministerial decision is over, this is about decentralised administration - we are not intervening in this part - and it goes on to demolition. The second thing we do is speed up the ability and the ability of the decentralised administration to do its job. Its work depends on two things: the availability of resources and the means it has to implement quickly the demolition decisions already made by a decentralised administration. I would remind you that the decentralised administration of Attica currently has terminal demolitions of two and a half thousand properties in forests and seven hundred in beaches and saints. So what is this second procedure doing? Firstly, it increases the budget of the Green Fund - this finances this process - by allowing it to take money from the budget, from the Public Investment Programme or from other sources, exclusively for the funds of demolition. The second one, is that it allows decentralised administration, in addition to the tenders for demolition of buildings, to acquire the right to direct award, as provided for by the public procurement and works law, that is to say, up to EUR 135,000, which is the limit that it can make directly. And the third one that introduces is the possibility that the existing contraction of demolition may be extended by 50% if the physical object is increased accordingly. That is the main part of the amendment. I would remind you - and I would point out - that the parallel procedure, which is currently inaugurated, concerns exclusively - and I stress - areas which have been declared refreshable, buildings which are ready to be built on the beach, to an extent of five hundred metres, as stated in the 1983 Act of Tritsis, man-made, arbitrary and so on. - I repeat, this is the current legislation - and strictly in streams, defined in accordance with the rules of the Ministry of the Environment, which have already acquired identification - study and flood zone. So I repeat, in the zone up to five hundred metres from the beach, as provided for in the existing legislation, in areas where reservoirs have been declared and in fixed buildings. This needs to be clarified directly. The parallel procedure, which introduces a faster process than the Minister, does not concern all regions, all arbitrary or anything else. It is clearly identified in areas with high sensitivity, refreshing areas, streams...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u212	Minister, if you please, close.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u213	I'll try to close as fast as I can.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u214	In historical monuments, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u215	I'll get there. This is the general amendment to speed up demolition processes. The second amendment concerns Macronissos. He says the Minister is entitled - because the process of demolition of the suburbs of the macronese has been closed - to make the contraction of demolition. That's the arrangement for the Macronese. He's got all the other procedures. We have committed ourselves that the arbitrary forces of the Macronese will fall and this amendment regulates this. There are also a few other amendments. One is the protection of Attica's wetlands. Building activities shall be suspended until wetlands are delimited. It is a necessary measure to suspend this suspension. It extends the New Macris cemetery. And TEDO, who restores the network in the affected area, is able to get money from the relevant fund of EUR 1,000,000, so that it can make the connections and not pay the last piece, but be able to do so directly. That is the one amendment, the biggest one and the most important one. The second amendment, with a general number 1727 and a special 186, dated 31-07-2018, concerns the flexibility compensation mechanism. It is urgently introduced, because it is a mechanism which has been pending for too long. It is absolutely decisive and has been adopted at European level recently. He's temporary, too. It's been about a year. Its importance is very simple and decisive. It is the mechanism by which we ensure that the production system is ready to meet the fluctuations, flexibility, the energy consumption system, of course, paid in some way. This is the flexible compensation mechanism. This means that the productive system, in order to cover the fluctuations, must at any time be ready to provide the energy it needs. This is all temporary because it existed. We got the approval to function the way it's called here, that is, with the contest. And I say that it is for a year, because the long-term compensation mechanism will then be introduced - which will cover a long period - which will cover all of the energy producers as a whole. It will be long, and at the same time, the market will have worked in a different way, with the energy stock exchange. Therefore, the Flexibility Compensation Mechanism is being introduced. It has come to an end, after a great deal of effort and will be temporary by the end of 2019, unless - as provided for in the provision - the long-term mechanism replaces it, as envisaged.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u216	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Amyras, a Parliamentary representative from the River.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u217	Mr President, I would like to ask you to speak about the amendments that are accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u218	Would you like to take the floor after Mr. Amyras, so that the proceedings can go because he has gone up to the Step? Unless you would like, Mr Amyras, also to be present for the amendments tabled by the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u219	Listen to me so I can...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u220	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u221	We accept the amendment, which Mr Stathakis has just developed, which is the general number 1727 and a special 186, and we also accept the legislative amendment with a general number of 1734 and a special number 193, tabled by Mr Mumulides and Mr Skouriakos, but only Article I and not Article II. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Amyras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u223	Thank you, Mr President. You will allow me, too, to ask the Ministers for clarification on the amendments first and then to come to my speech. First of all, Minister, Mr Gavroglou, the amendment we have tabled to the Potami with a general number of 1715 and a specialist of 174 on compulsory preparedness exercises, are you accepting it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u224	She's already accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u225	Has he already been accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u226	Ladies and gentlemen, please sound loud. Keep going, Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u227	I shall again turn to Mr Statatakis in detail for this amendment. First of all, what time do you calculate the autopsy control procedure? That's my first question. The second is if the demolition reports are being offended to the Council of State, as will be done, in what time do you plan to demolition if the Council of State consents? My third question is this. If citizens resort to the European Court of Human Rights, where there is a long time to go, we realise that this process of demolition can go to the perpetual, so never happen? I would therefore like answers on these clarifications. I shall now come to my speech. Ladies and gentlemen, I will of course begin my speech by saying that the condolences of all of us and everyone separately are very little for the tragedy and families of the ninety people who were burnt alive in Mattie, as well as the hundreds of others who lost their homes, the injured and the missing. As far as Potami and I are concerned, I say this and commit myself here at the Step of the House that I will do everything in order to keep these people from being forgotten and to see the real causes of destruction and ruin. I am sorry, however, for the fact that ten whole days have passed and no one felt by the government - no one by the government, Minister or government-appointed official at the highest levels of the state machine - the need to assume his responsibilities in practice. We're ten days after the ruin, and we haven't heard a single apology from this government, from a minister. We're ten days after the disaster, and we haven't seen a single resignation. We are ten days after the disaster and have not even heard of a half-dismissal of a commander who did not work properly. And I do wonder if today we were not discussing the Ministry of Education bill, but was a drafted by the Ministry of Interior for the reorganisation of police departments, say, Mr. Toskas would be here today as if nothing had happened? I would remind you that, when Mr Tsipras was in the opposition, in similar and smaller disasters, he called for government resignations, accusing the ministers of execution of contracts of death. That's what Mr. Tsipras said as Opposition. Now that he was unable to protect himself and his government, the people in Matti, turned to the gentleman "I don't know, I didn't see, I didn't hear". I would like to put aside that theatrical meeting on Monday at the Firefighting Coordinator, and I would like to say this: Resignations are not a tool of vengeance or punishment. It is the political accountability of the citizen and, secondly, for an even more practical reason. Because the same people, who were in charge of the mechanisms ten days ago in destruction in Eye, are the same people themselves and today, in theory, are the guarantors of the security of the citizen, in similar cases. Ladies and gentlemen, if we put it all to the arbitrary - as I can slowly hear it coming out, particularly from the government MPs - the argument that it is the fault of the arbitrary - is that of what happened in Matti, if we throw it all into climate change, asymmetrical threats, canals and small alleys, then we do not have the courage to see what really happened. Those who say that do not have the courage to see it and admit it, so that we do not wait for the next disaster, so that we can regain our condolences. Also, one more thing. Your government, SYRIZA - ANEL, is in things almost four years. So stop telling us how much the previous ones were to blame and see where it was your fault. On your shift...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u228	Tell us about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u229	"Say to us," you say, Mr. SYRIZA's colleague, where's your fault? "Would you tell us?"? Are you one of the people you're saying you were doing well on Monday? Aren't you embarrassed? Well, here's not a cafeteria opposition, at least when I'm in Stepa, okay? Because I don't leave that unanswered.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u230	Calm down, Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u231	I'm on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u232	There is no need for dialogue now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u233	So restrain the Syrian MPs underneath this hour.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u234	Okay, but don't yell. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u235	Recommendations in this tone are not allowed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u236	Everybody, calm down. Please, Mr. Amyras, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u237	Now can I answer you, ladies and gentlemen? Did you see Monday's theatre on TV? Are you going to invoke the TV show you made for TV? When I go up to Stepma, those words are cut!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u238	Please, Mr. Amyras! Come on, gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u239	An apology you haven't said! Have you said an apology? Go out and say an apology for the conversation to begin.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u240	Apologies are called pragmatic!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u241	Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u242	You can't say an apology, which means you don't feel it! You feel no reason to apologise to the citizens. That's your problem! You are cynical and completely amnesty with regard to the threefold that anyone holding a public office must follow as the Bible: "Athens - Responsibility - I'm sorry". They're extinct from your viewpoint, from the result. Now, for this draft law, we are negative. Not only because this transition is not costly, but mainly because, as the explanatory statement says, such inclusion and merger of departments require documentation and rules that are missing. I'm sorry, you haven't set any criteria, have you not made rules?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u243	There are no studies at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u244	For example: Evaluation of existing structures and teaching staff of the Foundation to be integrated into the university, but also regulation on the most specific time and transition procedures, so that technological higher education, including applied sciences, is not cancelled. What are we talking about? The river is voting against this draft law. We think it's totally clipping in the leg, unspeakable. He said the Minister would be given 1.5 million euros. What's a 1.5 million euro? How does it turn out? How did he get it? What procedures? What time? What are we talking about? I have this question for the Minister of Education, which concerns the graduates of the dramatic schools. Here last year, under article 79 of Law 4481/2017, which was the law on the management of intellectual property rights, the Ministry of Education was given the opportunity to hold higher public and private schools of artistic education to make their degrees equal to those of TEIs. It has been launching a joint ministerial decision since July 2017 to do this. Two Ministers all have to sign, the Minister of Education and the Minister of Culture. The Minister for Culture has replied to a question tabled by some SYRIZA Members that, yes, I believe the ministry should also be made positive and that it is acting in this direction. The Minister of Education lives. Why does it not sign, since it is the law of this government? Why does everyone who until 2003 have had a degree in one of these schools? And what about the graduates since 2003? There's an empty law. Set this up. Mr Mavroys will tell you about the other amendments. Of course, we think that the amendment we tabled with Mr Mavrota as a River was accepted to draw up a plan for the need for and the training and rescheduling of seminars twice a year in all schools. Children should know how to protect themselves, what conditions may be in each school separately in the event of natural disaster or major danger. If we had adopted and made this perspective of prevention as an organised society, today the debate could have been very different about what we have been living - and we are unfortunately still living - and above all about the people who have been lost and the families of those people who have been lost in Matti. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u245	Thank you to Mr. Amyras and to the economy in time. I would like to inform you that, for the time economy, several colleagues and in cooperation with the parliamentary groups have agreed to be deleted. Thank you. So we keep going and I'll let you know how many are left and the time left. Mr. Constantine Tsiaras has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u246	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as a witness to the convergences which I have just heard from the Parliamentary spokesman for the River and your fellow Members, I would like to say to you that these difficult times, which, in one way or another, public opinion has been formulated in response to tragic events, it would be good, on our part, to have as much tension as possible and - if you wish - less available to seek excuses. Believe me, I do not say this at all in my own right to make an opposition. It is, however, so great that the pain of our fellow citizens, a large part of the Greek society, which at some point we must understand in this area that the responsibilities which may be shared in the political system, but also in the teaching message that we are emitting towards society, are very great. It is not enough to say that the responsibilities are time-consuming. The time of today always shapes the individual, personal and collective responsibility of each of us. As far as the bill is concerned, once again the government comes to tell us that it brings us a bill - "location" that changes data and creates different conditions in tertiary education. I imagine you remember that a short time ago New Democracy had stood positively in the superiorisation of the Western Attica Teaching, believing that in this way there must be a reform of higher education, but that it must be consistently kept the alarm between university and technological education. Here, in fact, this bill comes to overthrow a logic that the Ministry of Education had initially adopted. I would say that this is an important reason why there seems to be no serious policy. Political choices are totally fragmentary. They give one particular dimension at a time when SYRIZA colleagues are invited to defend themselves in one way or another. Whilst the Minister and the officials of the Ministry are here, there is a democratic process and everything that comes to debate and vote every time is the subject of consultation, once again, ladies and gentlemen, we are - faced with twenty articles of the bill, which have never been consulted! What do you say, really, about all this? Where is the democratic feeling, which you are showing us every time as a special feature of you, which was not before today - is supposed to exist to the greatest extent possible? Also, if we want to talk about the substance, what are the real criteria of the reorientation of higher education? Can someone describe them in a concrete and clear way? Who is she? Because if you want me to pass on my experience, at least from the consultation that can take place at the level of the Thessaly TEI, I will tell you very specifically and very simply and unequivocally. Unfortunately, I am sorry to tell you, the criteria are localist, they are syndicated, they are 'days' settlement criteria. They're not academic criteria. They are not criteria that have as their main objective the introduction of specific professional rights by the schools which are being created, schools with a literal album! Tell me how it is justified, for example, to circumvent the Senate's decisions, not to have a Senate when talking about new university schools? You're supposed to be defending all the procedures and all the legislative functions of the state. Senate here doesn't exist - I imagine you know it - with this law. So tell me, how can schools such as this be part of the School of Health Sciences, while, for example, the School of Psychology be part of the School of Social Sciences? What is the criterion for one side to take on the other? I am saying all this because there is a serious contradiction in all that you are trying to legislate over the last few years. Because time is too short, I'll tell you this. There is a presidential decree as of August 2017, number 79/2017: ‘Organisation and operation of nursery and primary schools’. In less than a year, ladies and gentlemen, you come to amend all the articles of the innovative, as you have been advertising to us at the time, and a 'progressive' presidential decree. Is that a serious piece of legislation? Less than a year? Finally, a comment on the amendments. I understand that this is the last day before the first Summer Department is closed, but this'rain' of amendments once again, which, in fact, each of them is a new bill, you can see that, as it did not look for a honour in the political system of the past, it is no longer a honour to you. At some point, because at the end of the day all of this, which we say when we are in opposition, is very difficult to make when we are in the government, you realize that each one of you, first of all, is not faced with his party status, but with himself and with his own dignity. Finally, I want to make a small comment, although the Minister is absent. There is an amendment which deals with an issue relating to mushrooms and which, of course, I would say to you that at first sight the New Democracy could see it positively. However, we had an objection to the actual extension of the term of office of priests and, on the other hand, the practice:'regulations which might be in accord with us, to be part of an amendment with fifteen different regulations, which we are opposed to in many of them', you can see that it does not give us either the right or the opportunity to vote in favour of and support certain options. At last, we have to get serious. If there are any consensus places in the Greek political system, we can find them and can, in any case, be drawn up. But when this is done in the well-known puppy way that some might agree, let us include something that they do not agree either to force them to vote or to force them to declare their opposition, you can understand that it once again exposes those who legislate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u247	Thank you, Mr. Chiara. Mr Mustafa has the floor and immediately thereafter Mr Karathanasopoulos, Parliamentary Representative of the JRC. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u248	Ladies and gentlemen, I thankfully chalk the head in front of our fellow people for losing in this tragedy. I would like to make a few points about the ministerial amendment on mufts in Thrace and the priests. Any initiative, small or large, for the years, small or large, problems of minority, immediately bears reactions from the 'carbonists', from the 'carbonists', from the'metomologists' of the region, sensitive citizens and sensitive politicians for Thrace. A gift to Erdogan the saria and the election of the mufts. What have the Vice-President of the Turkish Government discussed with Mr Gavroglou in a private debate that lasted many hours? After the vote on the voluntary saria by the House, the mufties organized a conference on how good the sharia is and conquered there for years those who had called for the abolition of the sharia and myself personally. The Teaching Federation of Greece, for the first time in its history, organised a conference on minority education for the non-implementation of the HNP pilot programme in kindergartens with a purely minority population - listen, listen! - to prevent the children from being extorted. I would like to express my opinion on the general issues included in the amendment, but also on those in particular. From post-population and on the other hand, the left, the progressive people of minority and majority groups have been calling for the demolition of minority society, the removal of judicial powers from the muterooms by subjugating all the cases of minority citizens into the country's existing legal system by exercising the muteies, only their spiritual and religious role. This is the permanent place of Thrace's society. This is not a view of marginal ideological circles, neither of the atheists and the unbelievers, nor is it a imposed view from somewhere else, because that is the requirement of life itself, of evolution and of the development of our society. Those who said there would be an uproar, will have reactions to the initiative - semi-finished, in my opinion - about the sharia have been disproved. The initiative brought relief and resolution to many years of open issues in society. We also expect the decision of the European Court of Human Rights, which will probably condemn our country and perhaps pave the way for the complete abolition of the sharia and for the discharge of mufts of these tasks. The way the religious leader, the motto, is a demand. The way has failed so far. The opaque, underground, without criteria or on the grounds of submissiveness and submissiveness to the respective government and the regime of management of the minority, which exists in our region, created mufts outside society, fearless people, torn apart from the faithful. Minister, you're not here, but it's okay. It may be that today's musketeers who will be repelled from you, cursed you, criticize you politically and morally, but at the depth of their souls they thank you, because they will finally be redeemed from the anomaly, from the isolation, from the alienation of their own society and the life of the Panagathus to live quietly, in peace with themselves and their surroundings from now on, in the rest of their lives. After the repatriation of mushrooms, sites will be needed, which will take office and will probably try to contribute to modernising the structure and organization of mushrooms, according to the presidential decree being prepared. There is also a committee working on the new structure. There must be, Minister, an honest dialogue with society, taking into account the active religious workers of the parishes and villages and all the actors in the region, in order to find the appropriate sites, and there must be, first of all, criteria such as well-known theological training, knowledge of interreligious dialogue, personality, wisdom, coexistence and dialogue. Our region needs serious, prudent, calm people, outside political games, in the service of speech, love and association of religions. As regards paragraph 4 for priests, Minister, the institution of the priests is useless, unnecessarily. It was established to create a party army, a priesthood of Islam in the region, useful for manipulating the believers, in the context of the theory of community religiousization. They do not offer any substantial work - there are not enough HS too - as they do not offer any positive work and other similar activities from other circles, such as Korani seminars, koraniu memorisation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. On the contrary, we need support from the primary and secondary minority schools, as well as from all schools in the region, because of the large number of minority children who are now in public education structures. The Xanthi Minority High School also needs institutional and real estate support, so is the High School and the High School of Komotini, and very useful structures are needed to reduce the leakage from compulsory education, which is great in our region. There is a need for a radical reform of the two sacrosancts, which, in their current situation, looks like a caterpillar, rather than a school. The Municipal Education Department of the Minority Guidance should be based on developing the teaching of the Turkish language for the production of quality teachers for minority schools. These are the priorities and not the waste for those who are struggling for priests. And we are not against the priests, because according to Mr. Loverdos they are against Turkey, because we, the society of Thrace and our religion know it and we preach it and our origins know and safeguard it. We do not put them in the balance of transnational balances and supposedly succumbing, because, as the "Lord of mercy" is bored by the priest and the many religious things, wherever they come, every believer is bored. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u249	Thank you, Mr. Mustafa. Mr Karathanasopoulos, Parliamentary Representative from the JRC, has the floor. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u250	Thank you, Mr President. The Minister for Education noted that the whole time this bill was discussed there was no other opinion on how higher education would be organised. Or selectively monitors the positions of the Minister or tries to overshadow the issues and cover the diversity. Of course, it makes sense that the other opposition parties could not hear any different opinion about the organization of higher education than the government is currently implementing or in the past were implementing the previous governments. And that is normal, because they have the same strategy and the current government with the former and the parties, a same strategy for both education and research and technology. Besides, the issues of education are not an independent variable. It is not in a test tube, i.e. it is not uncut by developments at the level of the economy, by developments at the level of society. And that is exactly what the Minister wants to cover up as an ex ante apology for the capitalist system. And it is the government's apologies to the capitalist system, because it is precisely the whole of the legislative framework measures that serves the needs of capital today. So, as far as education, research and technology are concerned, it is subjugating all this to the needs of capitalist enterprises to shield their competitiveness, to improve their profitability. The current government also accepts the European Union's policy on education. So the main feature of this bill - and it could not be the case - of the restructuring which is being undertaken at the University of Epirus and the Ionian University is that it is only the support, the speeding up of the effort to involve these university institutions more closely with the needs of the firms, which reach this point, which not only interfere with the issues of research, but also with the curriculum of study, the fragmentation of schools and the provision of courses. This is precisely the interconnection of capitalist enterprises with education, which the JRC considers to be a brake on the development of education, on the development of new knowledge through research and on new technology, because precisely the business groups undermine everything that can question their profitability. This is a characteristic feature in a number of areas of research that are directly linked to the interests of business groups, such as, for example, drug research and the interests of the pharmaceutical industries and, consequently, developments relating to health issues. So it is precisely this interface which is a brake on the development of research and education that leads to the degradation of the education provided at all levels of education, the deterioration of the degree, so that whatever knowledge is provided is nothing more than a few fragmentary skills, so that they can precisely correspond to the logic of cost reduction, to the new form of worker, that is to say to disposable workers, to some workers, to the opportunity workers, whether we are talking about spirit workers or about manual workers. That is why we also see the deterioration of the education provided at all levels, in primary, in high school, in high school and in university. It is no coincidence that the new changes that will bring about in the second and third grades will further downgrade the high school, turning it into a form of care. From this point of view, then, it is no coincidence that these changes in industrial relations, their optimisation, too, are reflected in the bill itself. It forms multiple levels of employees at universities, whether they are the research staff, the teaching staff or the other staff, with flexible working relationships, with time and work contracts - the well-known blocks - which are also a characteristic of this new form made by the government. The underfunding of universities and educational institutions, the commercialisation of education and the privatization of education is also a characteristic feature even more of the privatization of education provided by private schools or provided by public authorities. The result - and this is the strategic aim - is to reduce the content of education, to increase the intensity of class barriers in education. There are very serious, very important obstacles for children of the working class and the people's classes in their efforts to evolve, even to study. That is why not only is it in the bells, but it is further downgraded by student care, which could, of course, be a form of relief for children of the populace and working class. Indeed, because it does not provide for anything, it is also a challenge for the Minister that he will give 1 million for student care at the University of Ioannina. We note this, not only because it will certainly not solve the problem, but it is also 'the cherries in the cake' of the whole situation. Minister, in student care you maintain the abnormal status of the former government of New Democracy and PASOK, which led to its deterioration, by transferring the students' homes to universities and all the problems that exist. Not only did it not improve, but instead it was downgraded. You keep this situation and you take measures. Example of degradation and speculation: Since June 26th we had tabled a question about the hotel rental contest in Patras from Patras Student Restaurant. While the proposal of the student home chief was for 230 thousand euros, the Foundation suddenly uploaded the budget to 498 thousand euros. Why, really? Who is he who's become a shareholder of the contest? Why have you not answered this question so far? What do you intend to do, Minister, with the thirty-seven workers on a contractor in Patras' cooking, who ended their contract and remained unpaid by April? Are you going to take a measure to get their jobs paid? These are issues that are real and to which you are not different from the others. So what you promote and in education, instead of liberating the worker, the young man, enslaves him, cultivates half - learning and darkness. In my brief time, Mr President, I shall also refer to the issues relating to the tragic consequences of the devastating fire in Eastern Attica. On the substance of the matter, the JRC's assessment is increasingly confirmed every day that this is a planned crime, with time-consuming responsibilities from both the current government and from the previous governments. Options have been made that have led to the deterioration of protection against natural disasters, whether earthquakes, floods or fires, the underfunding of prevention measures, and also the treatment. As a result, there are huge shortages of infrastructure, facilities and staff, for them to be able to implement a plan of prevention, preventive intervention and also to deal with, for example, fires, a lack of an organised intervention plan, which was clearly apparent from the tragic results in Eye and East Attica, lack of education, the lack of preparedness exercises. All these issues, of course, do not lead to the logic of acquittal of the current government. Not at all. They show even more responsibility, because it goes on at the same time in terms of priorities. For the current government priorities are infrastructures, projects and measures favouring capital, and, in fact, for these projects, infrastructures and designs there are fast track procedures. On the other hand, for the protection of human life, although hundreds of billions of euros have been spent on the various European programmes, nothing has been done about this, leaving further that what is triggering arsonism is nothing but the strategic choice that the earth is a commodity, that the earth is gathering in less and less hands, that it is changing its use and that you, the current government, such a spatial framework that serves, is subject to the needs of capital and that is a spatial plan which is dangerous for the protection of human life. These are the factors. But the main thing is not just to look at the factors. The main thing is to find out what needs to be done. So here we consider the current government to have enormous responsibilities, firstly, as far as the immediate measures are concerned. What does that mean? That it must be done under the responsibility of the state and not by pressing further privatisation, not just the issues of forest protection, with the various agreements you want to sign with various business groups and representatives of pluralism. So you are shaping the direction of so-called volunteering and charity, seeking to cultivate the existence of a social individual from business, who is tested daily in the workplaces of business groups. From this point of view, what do we say? Firstly, that the State is responsible for the need for the immediate restoration of the consequences and relief of the firefighting. Secondly, the immediate restoration of all damage to 100%. That is why we cannot accept the amendment that the Ministry has now brought in relation to compensation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The level of compensation is not satisfactory, it does not cover all the damages, and it is, in essence, an ash in the eyes of the world. There must also be protection of the income, the losses of workers and professionals. From this point of view, of course, we shall vote for the amendment to extend the unemployment benefit and those who have not filled the necessary signals. But we think it's too small. Overall, unemployment benefit cannot cover huge losses. Nevertheless, we will support this amendment. The main issue, which is being discussed in areas not affected by fires, but which see the consequences of the fires in Eastern Attica, wherever we have gone, which are concerned with the world, is what will happen if there is a corresponding fire in their area. From this point of view, we see absolutely no action, no plan, no effort at all to create a provisioning infrastructure, prevention and indeed a truly practicable plan for the protection of human life. We say this in comparison to the amendment tabled a moment ago by the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment. We think the treasure is carbon. We say this because the ambition of the amendment is what? To implement a 30-year legislative framework, which has so far not been implemented. The way that comes in is general and vague. There is no one at all planning and no priority where there is a greater need. What measures will be taken in synergy with the other ministries and civil protection?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u251	Mr. Comrade, if you'd like, you'd better finish up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u252	Mr President, I shall conclude with this. After all - under the scripture, because it is just a generic thing, on the other hand, hypocrisy and hypocrisy, we would say, once today's government has taken steps, it has passed laws that accord the mountains, the forests, the shores and the sanctuary for its business and its development. This, in our view, is also what is armed with the arsonists' hand. I will tell you very briefly about two other amendments. We will vote against the amendment, which concerns the mechanism created in the electricity market, because it forms part of the electricity sector, as well as the transport of infrastructure, mainly sport, the Municipality of Argyroupoli and Greek, because it forms part of the privatisation and concession of Greek to business interests and investment projects. At the same time, what is cheese on the lace is that the investor will shape and create sports infrastructures in other places, without any commitment at all, no timetable, which is, of course, as I said before - and the cheese in the light, in order to allow the removal of these infrastructures exploited by the young people of the region to be accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u253	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Mr Cremastino has the floor. There are three other Members left to complete the list after the deletion, and the Parliamentary Representatives Mr Kefaliannis and Mr Mandas.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u254	Mr President, with the seconds...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u255	Mr. Pappa, we'll see what happens with the seconds. You, anyway, have a secondary right. We'll see what happens with the secondarys to compact the times as we can. We'll talk about it. Here, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u256	Mr President, I must say that, while I have had in mind another speech to make, but in the Chair and seeing the image of the House, I am forced to say what I am going to say, that, while the flag for national mourning flows, everyone speaks everywhere except for the Chamber of Parliament, where fragmentary, in the midst of bills, if you like, fellow Members or parliamentary representatives or parties are placed, but not officially, the parties - I speak with their leaders - while, if we look at what happened in the respective disasters in Britain and France, there was just such a national disaster with victims - it does not matter whether it is fire or bombing - the first appeal by the Prime Minister, but the parties were in this House. This is where the information is broadcast. It's like we have a TV democracy. The stations are building up and the politicians follow. Politicians are apologizing to journalists. This thing is unnatural for a modern parliamentary democracy. Journalists should be here and responsible for listening to the debates in the House. Of course, respect for the dead requires - while the dead have not yet been found or, if you wish, they have not yet been found or inhabited - that we should not discuss the matter in depth, that the House should be informed instead of television. I understand that. This thing, however, which we have today, I do not know how many more days it will continue, namely one - a separate and personally regrettable one, and in reality there is a depression of all the Greek people, which is done through television media. Of course, this introduction was necessary from the picture that I saw in the House today. So it overturns the programme and the limited time to deal with the bill on substance. However, I must say that the tragedy of higher education is great. I have - and I shall submit to the Minutes - two of my articles in a large newspaper - 'The drama of higher education' and 'The international evaluations of the IGC', which describes this alalum. In other words, the House agreed, the parties and two hundred and fifty-five Members voted for a major change in education. Then the two hundred and fifty-five Members were overturned by a hundred and fifty-four MPs, including people who voted for the previous law between the two hundred fifty-five, i.e. they voted twice, in favour of and against the law that they voted against zero of the Chief of the ANELs except, which was then in the New Democracy. This has never been done in the history of the country nor in other countries. So what we give the world to understand that we are going to do a system of higher education accepted by everyone is sad, because we seem to do nothing, because this majority, when it becomes government, has promised to overthrow what we are doing today. That's what's gonna happen. So, zero is zero. In the end, i.e. zero. Should we not all be thinking here about what is going to happen to higher education? They were two hundred and fifty-five - not then SYRIZA among them, I understand - but even now the Ministry of Education should not have had a dialogue with everyone, bring the laws here and have a larger majority? So, what's going to happen? Are we going to make a new story again and continue in the advent of this absurdity? These are things that are escaping from common sense. Of course, it is regrettable and the phenomenon of seeing parallel amendments not only from the other ministries, but from the Ministry of Education. Is it possible for the Ministry of Education to make amendments to the law that brings the same thing today? So, is it like he didn't make it? Let him have it two weeks later, that everyone should study it, that they should also study the amendments. So, how's it going to be? Can you tell me that anyone read the last amendment I saw as President-in-Office? I at least looked at her and tried to figure out what she said. Is that how the bills are going through the House? [[This is where the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing.]] I am really surprised and express myself so - if you want - and my concern, because I know that these things all share them, but we are not all talking about them and, more importantly, we do not apply them. If we have a debate in private between us outside the Chamber, we will all agree on that. Why don't we agree in the Chamber? Time, Mr President, is too little to deal with the bill. I just wanted to express thoughts and concerns, if you like, because the way of television democracy is not the way to go. We must follow the path of parliamentary democracy and we all know who that is.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u257	Thank you, my colleague. Mr. Paraskevi has the floor, and immediately afterwards Mr. Kefaliannis, to continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u258	Ladies and gentlemen, the second time I have spoken after the disaster, and I have to repeat my participation in our national and social mourning for the victims and for what has happened there. Let me, however, because a lot is being heard, add a few basic words to these facts. The debate on prevention against disasters cannot deal with certain factors. He can't, for example, deal with weather. It cannot deal with weather, because at national level there can be no weather forecast. It cannot be effectively dealt with by the fraudulent arsonists either, because, yes with repression and policing, we can prevent some fraudulent phenomena, but we cannot prevent the crime of 100%. A maniac can be found and surprise us. There has never been total crime prevention. What is this about which national policy can influence, so that we do not have such phenomena? It is the measures relating to infrastructure and the world, that is to say the alleys that are not narrow, that do not exist arbitrarily, which exclude people from being able to find a way out to reach the sea. I am talking about exactly what Mr Amyras has previously named and said with an arrogance 'Are you concerned with this?' This is a precaution. What is the main responsibility on the next day of the responsible politicians, the ministers? Their main responsibility, I think, is to promote legislative initiatives which will serve to restore, design and launch, where possible, immediate measures relating to infrastructure, relating to relations with the forest, the rice sector, which can, in fact, affect the prevention, at least, of the extent of these disasters. This is also the main political responsibility. Because, as you know, they are not the same people, the knowledgeers, they do not have the main operational responsibility, but they do have an important overall responsibility on all the issues that I have mentioned. Instead of criticising them or, in any case, a reference to these areas of responsibility by some of our Vice-Presidents, I am glad that we have had some glamorous views on the subject of destruction, what has been heard? A lasting reason: 'Resign, guilty ministers'. We don't care that it can make the next day safer, make it better, treat the victims. We all put this aside. What do we care? Resign the ministers, resign the government, recapture the chair. That was the only stress, which sounded loud in this House. For there is one reason, which needs to be resounded so that sobriety and logic cannot prevail. Of course, there was also the great interest in the communication side of the issue again and not in the substance. And I want to tell you something communist, we must all take care of it: as long as we had governments of New Democracy and PASOK, when we had fire-fighting phenomena, we were constantly listening to television, especially from television channels itself, a reason that was referring to arsonists. Did you now hear about arsonists in the media? Because then the arsonist abhorrence was intimidating the government. Today a resurgence of the arsonists would disapprove the present left-wing government. It's not a good thing. Nobody's talking about arsonists now. I'm not saying it's about arson, I'm saying this communication phenomenon isn't random. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I think I can speak up to the six minutes that the President has said. I won't get over it. I'll say a word about the bill. Let me just say that the main intervention with this law is the rationalisation of the development of universities, which comes to the "ATHENA" programme, which has had the problems described here, that is, development on a large scale with market and austerity rather than academic criteria. But I just want to say something. Things would have been worse. It was not just that the "ATHENA" project served austerity at the expense of universities. How many remember that the Athens School of Law and Law School of Athens were self-appointed and self-determination? What was that supposed to do? Austerity? We had new expenses. The market? I don't think the market was interested in how many legal schools were. What was that supposed to do? The continuous presence of law-makers in the Senate, i.e. at all times of the administration of universities. It's the only reason. Of course I know very well that many of our colleagues at the time served this policy without realizing what it meant. Well, objectively, that meant that. The "Athens" project was even worse than it appears. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u259	Thank you, Mr. Friday. Mr Kefaloniann, New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, has the floor. Then we'll finish the list of speakers with Mr. Barkas and Mr. Pavlides.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u260	Mr President, I would like to speak. You told me you'd give me the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u261	Yeah, okay, you'll remind me later. Do you want to place now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u262	Mr President, let Mr. Kefaliannis speak and I will speak after Mr. Barkas.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u263	Here, Mr. Kefaliannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u264	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, last week, right here in this Chamber and in the face of the bills, we had unfortunately all commented on the tragic events of those days. First as a New Democracy, in fact, we had expressed our full support for the victims of national tragedy. We had even proposed that if necessary - because the country had not yet been declared nationally in mourning - we might also have to suspend Parliament's work. In any case, I think that no one can blame the New Democracy for at least those days and then showed a decent attitude, a responsible attitude. This, of course, does not mean, ladies and gentlemen, that there are no responsibilities. In fact, when the Prime Minister himself stated that he took political responsibility in full, I think he started a public debate. At some point I think we should also see the real concept of these terms and what 'political responsibility' means. At least for me personally, but I also think of the fact that I am serving, 'political responsibility' means that if someone sees that there are certain responsibilities, they will either have to resign or they will have to ask for the resignations of those who are responsible. Unfortunately, ten days after this unprecedented disaster, the national tragedy, no one has resigned, none of the Ministers responsible for responsibility, any of the Heads of the Security Councils responsible, any of the advisers, general secretaries responsible. Unfortunately, it turns out that the Prime Minister is all he cares about is how he will continue his political survival, saying and making void announcements. If he really meant what he said a few days ago about political responsibility, he should have done specific acts. There are, of course, policies, possibly criminals, since justice has been committed and under no circumstances, at least as far as our side is concerned, we will not let this unprecedented national tragedy remain unexploited either at political or criminal level. As far as the bill is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, once again while we should have debated - and to a certain extent discussed - the bills, we see that most of the time we have devoted it to today or to ministers who have paraded here for amendments, which are whole bills, or to talk about irrelevant issues. In any case, I will stress this once again - I have said so many times as Parliamentary spokesman - that it does not look to the House to get away from the Rules of Procedure, unfortunately, from the Constitution many times and to see the government once again bringing unreasonable amendments which, if you measure them and see the body and the number of pages, are more than the entire bill. In the bill, Mr. Minister, I have recently read a book published by the Greek Organization "DIANEOSIS" entitled "The 100-year-old puzzle". This book has written two British teachers from the London School of Economics and analyses the rapid changes in our lives and how societies, economies and businesses operate from increasing the life expectancy, which is likely to reach 50% of the years for the generation of millennials or for children born today. In fact, this book explains that during a great productive life investing in knowledge and skills is the first priority. It also stands at how the upgrading of the economic importance of education has been a catalyst in increasing the number of people attending universities. He mentions concrete examples, such as that 30% of the U.S. labour force has a degree. It's a percentage that's constantly growing. In fact, right now, a twenty - two - year - old who graduated from a university in the United States has an income of about $30,000, while the respective high school graduate has 18,000 dollars. The same people in forty years will have an income of 80,000 and the other $30,000 a year. This book, too, analyses that at one time technology and science become more important than ever. The issue of humanitarian science is the emphasis on the development of human skills, such as the creativity of new ideas, empathy and spiritual flexibility. In other words, it could be said that the 21st century, the century of the 'fourth industrial revolution' and the rapid changes brought about by the development of technology, will be the century of added value of ideas and innovations that can be reproduced or purchased by others. That is why I would like to ask you, Minister, if you know this new international reality in the bill, which we are debating today. That is to say, if you consider today's bill responds to a fundamental question, which is our educational system to meet the needs of the modern economy, the professional perspective of students. If you consider, for example, that the establishment of university research centres contributes to what the PPC set up at its conference, i.e. the use of the research results of PIs through the "spin-off" companies, which are recommended for the commercial exploitation and exploitation of the results of research projects carried out at the university. If you think our economy creates jobs, suitable for graduates of the schools established by this law, if it responds to the issues raised by the recent IOBE survey, in which, in fact, you rushed as a ministry to describe as a neoliberal, that is, the fact that unemployed graduates between 2008 and 2017 almost tripled from ninety-four thousand to sixty-four thousand. Secondly, the fact that the Greek education system returns not to Greek taxpayers, but to taxpayers in Germany, Britain, Dubai and third parties if the forthcoming abolition of TEIs strengthens the participation of young people in technical education, both medium and higher, which leads to employment in the private sector, such as the international attitude. I think that Thomas Rahel, German State Secretary for Education, recently mentioned what is the proportion of studies and children directed at the university or at professional studies and which should be made on the basis of the needs of each country. I imagine he would point out to you that six out of ten Greek companies report difficulties in finding skilled personnel, and I think that is indicative, Minister, a distortion that currently exists in higher education. In the extrovert: In the explanatory memorandum to the bill we read that "the objective of the forthcoming merger of TEIs and TEIs is, among other things, to make new institutions visible and distinguish themselves internationally. In fact, all States have designated the importance of education as an international service.’ Unfortunately, however, ladies and gentlemen, Greece is far from the market, even though it could. See, for example, what's going on in Cyprus. In 1996, Cyprus had two thousand students, of whom the thousand eight hundred were Cypriots and sixty were foreign and today, twenty years later - I don't think it's too long in the time - Cyprus has thirty-two thousand students, university institutions, of which thirteen thousand are foreign. And I ask you, Minister: what are the respective movements of the Greek state, or what are you planning to do at the moment, that you have the responsibility of this ministry? In fact, you personally, if I remember correctly, had put a brake on the proposal of the Athens School of Philosophy in order to create a foreign language undergraduate program, which was to be addressed to Chinese students who wanted to study in Greece...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u265	It was founded, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u266	I'll tell you in your speech. In fact, before you, your colleague, Mr Baltas, had decided to freeze the foreign-language undergraduate, which was in the universities for example Crete, the Aegean and Thrace. I don't think I've lost some progress on this. Although last February, you personally asked a timely question that I had asked you, you assured me that you would consider the undergraduate foreign language tourism at the University of Crete and that by June of that year - 2017, you would have proceeded with the adoption of the relevant presidential decree today, August 2018, this presidential decree is still pending.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u267	Mr. Consolas disagrees.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u268	You don't sound.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u269	He says there's an objection from the University of the Aegean. The creation of a department at the University of Crete and the University of the Aegean is something different. It's not conflicting, I think. To conclude with regard to the remarks on the principle, I am very afraid, Minister, that the only objective to be achieved by this bill is to reduce higher institutions. Because, unfortunately, the structural problems of Greek education by the state embraced by the HEIs, the lack of production of a high level of qualification that meets the needs of the Greek economy, the departure of young people abroad, the lack of use of the research results of universities by Greek and international enterprises, the poor response of universities to the needs of the Greek labour market, unfortunately, does not even affect them. And a system of education which does not lead to satisfactory employment, all it has to do is strengthen education's inequalities and ultimately reduce the prospects for young people and, in particular, those of the poorest social strata. As far as the amendments are concerned, I will be very brief because, as I said at the beginning of my speech, we had a storm of amendments - whole bills. Unfortunately, I told you once again that they are coming late. In fact, the one Mr Stathakis developed earlier, sixty pages ago, tabled it an hour and a half ago. As a matter of fact, no one can have the time to study it in its essence. That is why I will at least tell you the position of the New Democracy. We shall vote 'yes' in the amendments Nos 1715, 1719, 1726, 1727, 1728, 1729, 1732 and 1736, we shall vote 'no' in Amendment No 1716 and Amendment No 1720 and shall vote 'no' in 1717 and 1721, 1722, 1723, 1724, 1731, 1734 and 1735. Ladies and gentlemen, we have had 20 amendments today. With regard to 1730, with a special number of 189, which regulates the issues of the Church and the mufts, we will vote'residents'. With regard to 1733 on the arbitrary issue, the President of the New Democracy has spoken for many years since 2008 about the need to demolition and especially those arbitrary ones, which are not legally permitted and in any case settled. Of course, you know exactly what these are. It is arbitrary within areas that have been judged to be refreshable, arbitrary that are in the sanctuary and arbitrary within streams. Of course, in these cases it is clear that we must go down to demolition. I would remind you, however, that a law has also been passed, namely Law No 4178, by the previous government, a proper law, which arranged for those cases where licences could actually be granted. In Amendment No 1733 we shall vote 'the present'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u270	‘Yes’.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u271	'Yes'? Okay. Anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u272	Come on, gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u273	We reserve the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u274	Mrs Karamanlis, you'll tell your dentures. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Don't open a dialogue. Mr. Kefaliannis, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u275	Our rapporteur will say so at the time of the vote. The briefing I had was about 'the present'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u276	Will you take a coin?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u277	Come on, Mr. Pappa! Continue, Mr. Kefaliannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u278	I said it, Mr. Pappa. Whilst there is a need for the Commission's proposals, I would like to ask the House
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u279	I'll say it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u280	This amendment of sixty pages does not make it possible to read it. Anyway. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy, as I have said on several occasions, is a positive vote. Whatever it considers negative, it shall vote in favour of it in a reasoned manner. I say that to make a comparison with previous governments. When they were in opposition, they voted against it all, even positive and often have the political courage when they are in the government, the same that they had voted against coming and applying them, applauding them and applying them well, but at least political hypocrisy must be stopped here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u281	Thank you, Mr. Kefaliannis. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Barkas and Mr Pavlides are left on the list of speakers. Give me some time, Mr. Barca. I would like to address the rapporteurs and the special speakers who, in the majority of them, have asked for a denial. Let me remind you that the times of your prototypes have been overtaken by a lot, so the time of the seconds will not be in seven and a half minutes, but it will be less. We will say three to four minutes so that we can complete it in a reasonable time. Mr Barkas, I'm going to give the Minister the floor for the amendments first, so wait. I do not want to mention exactly how much everyone has spoken, because I do not want to blame anyone or make them appear. However, you have all spoken much more in your prototypes. In the same way as we have put together the speakers' time, we will complicate the time of the seconds. I say this now so that there are no misunderstandings at that time. Mr. Mandas remains after the parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u282	Mr President, my two minutes don't forget.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u283	Mr. Symphony, I haven't forgotten your one and a half minutes. I'll give it to you. Let me turn around to the rest and let the department know how the conversation is going to turn out. The Minister has the floor, Mr Gavroglou, to develop two amendments, and then Mr Barkas will take the step.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u284	Are these new amendments, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u285	These are two legislative amendments, namely general number 1735 and special number 194 and general number 1736 and special number 195. They're both accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u286	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Barkas has the floor. Immediately afterwards, Mr. Symphony, I'll give you the floor. Here you go, Mr. Barca.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u287	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me also state my participation in the national mourning of our country. I should like to state my full support for the relatives, the families of the people who have been lost by the devastating fire in Matti, Attica. I really think it is moments that all of us, the whole political system, must discuss seriously what we need to do so that we never again have to experience such images and losses in our country. Let me say that I really want to apologise to the families of the victims for the fact that I have not been shouting as loudly as I could to the governments of PASOK and of New Democracy which, unfortunately, have led Greek society to these results. I would like to say a great apologies for the fact that, through the people of the coalition, when we were fighting against cementing the coastal zone, I did not put my backs down any harder so as to break down the illegal buildings and the illegal buildings which the MPs, the ministers of the New Democracy and the PASOK had found and took their baths as bathers with an expensive price. I would like to apologize for not being so actively involved as a coalition youth at that time in the reafforestation of fire-fighting areas. I really apologise for the fact that I failed to convince the Greek society earlier that the Radical Left had a plan and has a political plan against illegal buildings, illegal cementation, fires, the fact of "we ate them together". Because we didn't eat them together. This political plan is currently developing in the eyes of the whole world. It is the continuation of "we have eaten them together". It started by Mr. Pangalos, who bathed in the illegal beach buildings, said we had them together. No, we didn't eat them together. We didn't build them together, and we didn't eat them together. We're not participating. We weren't bathed together. We're not going to these beaches together. We participate in reafforestations. In fact, from now on, we must put this measure in place so that our country does not relive this kind of disaster. I want to talk about the bill now. It is a bill that actually gives an answer to how the Radical Left perceives higher education. I have to say that through changes in the TEIs over the years, unfortunately, we have come to a situation in which we name the higher sections of the TEIs, but without students and students being able to enjoy this superiorisation. This bill is now coming through a wide-ranging dialogue with society, with the relevant bodies, with the teachers, with the students, reaching a result which says that higher sections are now being created in areas where the TEIs have been operating. I will only dwell on the fact that we on the continent now have the University of Ioannina. The TEI of Epirus is integrated into the University of Ioannina and the departments of the TEI become senior departments of the University of Ioannina. It is a major reform which has been discussed widely and thoroughly through dialogue, which has been developed by the Ministry and the Minister responsible. I can remember, at least, four of his presences on the continent with discussions with all the actors regarding this bill. I would like to welcome this process and say that of course there are departments which are worthwhile, have a broad professional and scientific scope, which can provide graduates in higher schools. I think it is the beginning of a step, so that in the next few years too we can strengthen those parts which are being created. I would like to say here - and I conclude with this - that it is at least funny for the rapporteur of the Officerial Vice-President to say that the Department of Economy, Accounting and Finance of the University of Ioannina is created in Preveza, because Mr Tsakalotos is from there and why he was given the title of honorary doctor. I would like to remind Mrs Karamanlis - who obviously does not know and did not ask the Member of the New Democracy there - that this section has sixteen LPA members, has a postgraduate very strong, has many students who are involved in this process. The postgraduate has been involved by too many people and the people who want to participate in this programme are too much. We are very close to creating a doctorate at this school. So the reason is that for Mr Tsakalotou's sake this section is being created is to be able to really alter - because you have nothing to say about these parts - the arguments that have been developed in this bill. I think it's the beginning of a very good course. We're happy about that. It will be judged by the Qualified Opposition and Opposition for its negative attitude, and I think we will be here for the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u288	Thank you, Mr. Barkas. Mr. Symblene has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u289	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, because I take the floor, I consider my sincere condolences to the relatives of the deceased to be minimal. I hope, of course, that today's debate will be a start to become a lesson in the tragedy that has taken place in the whole political system. I think that several of the measures already taken and also decided today are helping to reverse a long-standing situation, which has led to the country's distorted development in repeated tragedies. However, I have taken the floor to say a word about the amendment tabled by the Minister for Energy and the Environment on the subject of the Macrones. I say this by expressing both of the other SYRIZA colleagues from the Cyclades, Mr Syragos and Mr Manios, who participate in other sections, because some ambiguities had been created on the subject of the Macronissos. First of all, let us say, as the explanatory statement says, that on 16-5-1989 Melina Merkouri, with its historic decision, described the entire island of Makronissos as a historic place and the buildings of torture as historically preserved monuments. Also with n.e.c. The use of land and the limitation of building in the direction of protecting this historic site have been defined. With today's amendment, the Minister's decision, after checking the inspectors and building inspectors, is to destroy all the arbitrary buildings which have been on the historic island of Macronis. I think that this is a decision that needs to be implemented quickly, regardless of the administrative jurisdiction of the island in any municipality. I say this because there was an issue that the Macronesus administratively belongs to the island of Kes, so in the broad sense of the Cyclades. It doesn't matter which municipality it belongs to. It is important that the Ministries can make this decision, which the central state is taking today, to restore, as a minimum tribute to the victims and tortured of the years of Macronissos, the historic memory. I therefore believe that this amendment, in fact, is a historic part that needs to be implemented immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u290	Mr Aivatidis, Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, has the floor for twelve minutes. Mr Pavlides will then speak and Mr Mandas will be closed, so that we can move on to the Minister and to secondary sessions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u291	Thank you, Mr President. The bill and the flooding of delayed and non-relevant amendments are a dilemma of articles, which are listed in bulk, without any consistency at all. The bill for the University of Ioannina and the Ionian University is a bill with a hidden monumental incentive, since it provides for mergers. Even if some people hate the word mergers, if anything, they're synergies. We believe that localised interests are served, but also vulnerabilities of political people and not only. We think it's doomed to fail. We do not believe that it will deliver the expected results, even if there are any positive figures in the articles in question. This is because the government's policy is a non-nationalist policy in education. There is no policy to be - in the field of education - at the service of the nation. In other words, science, research, technology, in our view, should serve national ideals and, therefore, the non-confidential approach to this issue of education, in general, leads to mistaken political choices. After all, it is well known that the government's obsession to combat what is called "perfection", through which our nation progressed. I will focus on the major issue of the last few days, the unscrupulous tragedy that hit Attica, with almost a hundred dead and several missing persons, as it turns out. I have said right from the outset that the government has an analgesic and cynicism in this matter and how it is approached. I also believe that it has put in place a mechanism for delaying the performance of responsibilities. I am talking about analgesia, because no one can forget the Prime Minister's statement that it is an asymmetrical phenomenon - this phrase refers to some sabotage - and that some want to benefit, because the net exit from the memorials will take place. Of course we all know, whether we admit it or not, that this exit is a disaster. With regard to cynicism, the typical case is the report by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr Polakis. What did Mr. Paulakis say? He said, "But how is that possible? We were gonna hide the bodies? Would we take them home?' That is precisely the definition of cynicism in the political management of the tragedy. That's exactly what your Government describes. The adhesive between SYRIZA and ANEL is, of course, the prevalence of power and you competed on who will do better in this. Mr. Toskas, who had to resign right from the start, what did he say? He said he doesn't see a mistake in the management. Really, when would he admit there was a mistake? How many people should have been dead, how many hundreds? Indeed, not even a sincere apologies, absolutely none. Even an apology which was heard just now in the Chamber was not in this incident of the tragedy and the government's responsibilities, but the fact that the SYRIZA Member of Parliament did not resist as he had previously fought against the PASOK and the New Democracy governments did not resist. So at least he said, that's what I realized. To assume full political responsibility by the Prime Minister, what can it mean? Is it possible that this heavy-duty statement does not involve resignation? It's incomprehensible. Obviously, the words have lost their meaning and especially the words used in politics today in Greece. This declaration was an empty statement of content, falsifying and hypocritical. After all, his embarrassment was evident, which is consistent with the report that he is only forty - four years old. And what the coup d'état found going as a means to justify its criminal negligence in the event as a whole, is the verdict of arbitrary ones. It is really disgraceful for the political system to use such arguments. I would like to say on the occasion that the Golden Dawn youth and several Members - unfortunately I did not have the honour and the opportunity to be present - have been here since the first moment of the disaster, trying to help our fellow citizens, always under the guidance of some people who are aware of the subject and are in fact responsible, such as firefighters. In any case, we gave this as Golden Dawn, because nationalism is intertwined with altruism and philatelicity. And not only are we intertwined with them, but also with nature, because we love our land, our sea, our forests, our fields, the air we breathe. And we are ready - this is another kind of political tragedy for the system and for the parties - to give our lives for them. SYRIZA’s rapporteur from Ioannina fell into a major slip. He devoured the Golden Dawn, adopting a false, constructed post in order, with intent, to blemish the Golden Dawn. I will tell you, Mr President-in-Office of the SYRIZA, that what you have done is modest, not only politically and morally, but also criminally and civilly. At some point, when you return to the classrooms, remember what I say to you today, that there will be a judicial procedure against you and you will be called before the judiciary to support what you have said today in Parliament. That is why they should not be deleted, we do not want you to withdraw. Justice has the floor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u292	Thank you, Mr. Aivatidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u293	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u294	Here you go, Mr. Stephoe. What would you like? Are you asking for the floor on staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u295	Of course, I am a rapporteur. Look. I have two things to say. The people of democracy, of the left and of socialism have never feared threats or persecutions. Therefore, I know well what I said. In response to the rapporteur for the Golden Dawn, who mentioned two constructed news, one against the Minister, Mr Paul Pavakis, and the other for a site, which is not about SYRIZA, in order to slander SYRIZA, I said there is a post on members of the Golden Dawn. That's what I said. I don't adopt it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u296	You said they were arrested!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u297	Listen to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u298	Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u299	Do not recall.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u300	I said the report says they were arrested.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u301	Mr. Aivatidis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u302	Listen to me, I'm not rescinding.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u303	The lawsuit is legal. It's not a threat.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u304	Listen. Regardless of this, I talked about a four arrests post, two of which concern Golden Dawn. It's a matter of justice if it is or isn't like that. However, threatening me in this vulgar way, I sincerely tell you that neither is honoring you nor honouring Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u305	Uh, not vulgar.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u306	Come on, Mr. Pappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u307	The vulgar where did you find it? The way I address you is completely civilized!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u308	You know very well what you are bored of and who have committed crimes in this country.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u309	I am a Greek citizen and a member of the Greek Parliament. Be careful what you say. The position of the SYRIZA rapporteur is a responsibility. You are expressing your whole party.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u310	Come on, Mr. Aivatidis, please. Well, let's keep going. Mr. Pavlides has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u311	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, taking political responsibility from the Prime Minister seems to me to have been considered by him - and so it has been stated - as a self-evident political act. If we look back on the past, we will see that in other tragic events such as SAMINA, earthquakes, RikomEX, the devastating fires in 2007, it was not so self-evident that this political act of taking responsibility as a whole. However, because you are going through it very easily, the Prime Minister's taking political responsibility is a maximum political act of taking the collective and time-consuming responsibilities of the state which have also led to this tragedy. We have done the same in the past. For us, the state has been forced to continue and, therefore, all delays and omissions and mistakes of the past are due to the Prime Ministers concerned, the governments concerned are politically responsible. We did the same in total, and when we politically took over the burdens of the social, economic and humanitarian disaster in the country. We have undertaken them politically and governmentally to take the country out of memorials. Most importantly, however, the need to take political responsibility is much more important than the resignations and dismissals and a thousand communication or not. It is a great political act of responsibility that we will take initiatives and measures immediately to tackle and change the situation that has been dominated by decades in the country. And you'll see this very immediately. Already, many of these have been announced, such as the restoration of arbitrariness in a drastic way, the preparation of a national plan to address all the residential distortions that have been going on for years, the reform and upgrading of the service and mechanism of civil protection, so that we can put an end to this sinful past. I think that this is a maximum political act, which also has a social impact. As far as the draft law is concerned, I think it is following the need for a single area strategy in higher education and research, for an open system for the production of transmission and dissemination of knowledge, but it is looking towards society. It is not only a need to adapt to the new data, but in my opinion it is a new cultural given. It is important that there has been a long time of consultation with the relevant bodies for discussion and co-formulation, without surprise. And that was clear in the fact that there was a strong academic consensus in this bill. And at this level, it has nothing to do with the "Athens". At the same time, many comments and proposals have been incorporated. The draft law has dominated academic criteria, namely the need for academic viability, the assessment of the level of education structures and the contribution to the productive reconstruction plan of the Ionian Islands, as far as I am concerned. I think that this bill creates an upgraded landscape of higher education in the Ionian Sea, strengthens the cohesion of the Ionian Islands Region, exploits comparatively local advantages, whether it is the environment in Zakynthos and the NATURA regions in the wider region, or the art of music that is scattered in the Ionian Sea. At the same time, it creates new sections and decentralizes them on the Ionian Islands scale and creates a powerful higher education institution with new scientific fields and new schools and departments. I would like to welcome the establishment of the Faculty of Environment in Zakynthos and in particular the establishment of the Faculty of Economic Science in Corfu. I think that regional development is an important scientific area that the Ionian Islands region needed very much with its specific characteristics. The Tourism Department in Corfu is facing chronic national diseases. We have strong industries, shipping and tourism. Nevertheless, we do not produce high-scientific staff so that we can serve them. I also welcome the establishment of the University Research Centre in Ionian. It is a contribution to applied research with a social and development footprint and to the specialisation of new sciences. It is common conscious of all of us, of course, that these conditions required for the success of this effort are economic resources, the logistics infrastructure which I think is sufficient and the need for sufficient staff at teaching and administrative level. I would just like to set a special parameter before going to the amendment. It is the fact that next time there is a need immediately to define the professional rights of graduates, both in the new departments and in the former. There's a pathogen that we need to see. There is a negative experience from the Department of Architecture, Library and Musicology. He's earned a thousand graduates, half of whom are Corfiots. However, there are, in my opinion - and they are experiencing - injustices in the notices of positions. There is a lack of a stimulus and a deterioration in their value of work. To conclude, I would like to add to Amendment No 1722 and Amendment No 181, which I tabled on improving the out-of-court settlement mechanism. Paragraphs 1 and 5 in particular add to the ability to regulate, and the OAUs, because they are subject to a strict institutional regime in relation to the girls, which concerns their information and their relation to their public debts. To conclude, I would like to put myself in Amendment No 1722 and specific number 181, which I tabled, and which concerns the improvement of the out-of-court settlement mechanism. Paragraphs 1 and 5 in particular add to the ability to regulate, and the OAUs, because they are subject to a strict institutional regime in relation to the girls, which concerns their information and their relation to their public debts. Paragraphs 2 and 3 concern the assessment and value of liquidation of the real estate and the quality of the arrangement and define the validity of the Code of Civil Procedure at the time of the application. So they are related to the new Code of Civil Procedure. Thirdly, the fourth paragraph regulates the proportionality required in the payment of debts in relation to the different durations of these arrangements. And finally, paragraph 6 concerns the retroactiveness of the law backwards to include any pending cases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u312	Thank you, Mr. Pavlides. Mr. Maddash has the floor. Then the Minister, Mr. Gavroglou, will take the floor, or if we proceed with the seconds, the Minister will close.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u313	Mr President, do the rapporteurs want to have a second reading?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u314	Does the Minister not want to close the debate, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u315	I shall speak at the end, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u316	I said that we will continue with the seconds and the Minister will close with a final comment later. So after Mr. Madda starts the rapporteur's seconds. Here, Mr Colleague, you have 12 minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u317	Mr Ministers, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, the national tragedy that we experienced and lived in Eastern Attica last week unquestionably seals the social and political reality. Despair, grief, anger and despair are dominated by the victims of the disaster and especially by the people concerned who have found tragic death from the fiery throat. We stand with respect and suffering toward these people. Especially for those who have been lost, the path of mourning is long, the loss of weight and it is not easily healed. The responsibilities are self-evident and are serious. They will be investigated in depth. There's no doubt about it. The practical apologies are also self-evident. At the same time, however, and I would like to highlight this, it is a great responsibility not to allow the drama to occur at the origins of tragedy and human suffering with respect for this situation and without forgetting the great picture, that is, what is happening in the international environment, throughout the world, which is a new reality and which concerns - for anyone who wants to see with a clear eye - the extreme phenomena of climate change. And we also need our country's contribution to changing things at this level. At the same time, we need - and I would like to emphasise this - on the next day of this tragedy, the greatest possible political understanding, at the level of measures to relieve the affected, already taken and in the others that are to be taken, but also to speed up the entire process that we are seeing. There is also a need for the maximum political agreement on the root areas that we need to do and for a new perception of how we are living, the urban environment, how we need to shape our cities, how we need to change as quickly as possible the dangerous outbreaks that exist in our country and which I think many of them are concentrating in the Attica region and in one, two other areas, which are the greatest problems. We're in a new reality. We've seized her painfully. It was collected first of all by the people and those regions, which were affected by this disaster. I think that as a state, as institutional actors, we should give ourselves the best at this level without, of course, - and I repeat - neglect the investigation and the return of responsibilities where they need to be attributed. After all, I think that the relevant procedures are in progress and there is no doubt, in my opinion, that they will be attributed. And now I come to the bill. I would say that within this background, which does not allow us to gather - and if you like - our minds in these things in the way I have to, I think I am obliged to say experientially obligated in my capacity as a member of the University of Ioannina - to say that I am proud of this legislative initiative taken by the Ministry of Education and our government. It is my pride and pride that we are implementing in practice, and through the many challenges that are to be answered in the coming months and years - it is obvious - the next step after two - three crucial things that we have shaped. Both - three crucial things we have formulated are a framework, a strategy of the Single Area in higher education, which has very specific features and has been developed with very specific initiatives. The Minister for Education, Kostas Gavroglou, and the other ministers, mentioned this. The first is that. The second is that I am also proud - and I want to say this - of the process that we have followed throughout this course. It's an unprecedented process. It's a process, I'd say, component of this strategy. There could not be any single space strategy unless it was accompanied by a deep democratic process within the institutions. And I think it shapes a result that has many comparative advantages in relation to the previous reality. It therefore brings together a lot of comparative advantages, in my view, and in the area of education, which must always be remembered, in the context of education, as well as in the production capacity of these regions - and the Ionian Islands and Epirus - and, indeed, with very specific interventions for both research institutions designated at the University of Epirus and at the University of Ionian Islands and, of course, at the Agricultural Park, which is a very important intervention to raise and strengthen the capacity of these two regions. It is also indicative of the process - and I think we need to stress it - that many of them, I would say the majority of the establishment of these two institutions, which are now becoming strong institutions - that we should not forget that - were part of the demands and strategy that the institutions themselves had already shaped. I therefore think that we have respected our colleagues, the universities and the TEIs in these areas in the clearest way, their substantiated work, which some here ought to see carefully in a second year. It does not matter that they may have expressed a contrast, a different view. We must look at this again, because it is, I would say, an essential element of such procedures, which, as the Minister said, will continue in the near future. After all, he has mentioned too many regions - almost all of the country, except Crete, if I am not mistaken, which is also the one in the form - where these committees have already been set up and are in progress, so that they can be upgraded through the strategy of the single area of higher education in our country. That's what this is about. And it is essentially to see it in terms of history of education, a marvelous reform, a reform of the flesh and bones that is taking place at this time. That's what this is about. For many years now, perhaps after the 1982 reform, after that, there has been a huge gap. And for the first time now, at this time, we have this reform, which I call it'real reform', because it gives a clear signal the next day. In other words, from tomorrow - to say so - the administrations of universities, the Republican authorities are taking on a very difficult, but also very creative task, in which I am absolutely sure - the Minister said so very symbolically - that we will stand next door. And we will stand next door not only with the positions we have committed ourselves to giving, but also with the financial support, which is additional financial support, additional funding. The budgets of the higher education institutions have not suddenly disappeared. [[Mr DIMITRIOS KRIMASTINOS]] I think it has been clearly said that we, the Ministry's political leadership, all of us who are helpless in this effort in the foundations, will come back to this process to help at every time, at every stage, at every stage, so that we have the result we want to have and that is a result - in my opinion - of strategic importance for these regions and for the other regions. Are there - and I close with it - questions, issues, problems? Obviously, there are, but I would say that the main direction, the main avenue in which we want to walk in the next period has already been shaped in a very creative context. And I think that in this context we will give all our forces to upgrade - and I stress this - public higher education. On this path we will give all our strengths, so that we can enhance and install the value of education without returning, but also to give the productive potential of these regions a very great impetus, which I am sure will also be carried out through this process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u318	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. We're now entering the second grades. Please follow the deadlines provided for in the second subparagraph. Mr Stephen, rapporteur of SYRIZA, has the floor. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u319	Mr President, with regard to the legislative part, it seems that the government has won the impressions during the debate on both the committees and today. There was an excellent process. A bill will be passed which has been in consultation for a long time and has been discussed. At the hearing of the bodies it appeared that it was accepted by the university community and also by the other bodies in the areas where intervention by the state is carried out. Surely every care and care has been taken so that these institutions are long-term and progressing. We were accused of having enough amendments. Very soon, I will tell you that from the twenty-two amendments, the twelve are directly related to issues of the Ministry of Education, about eight came to cure problems, which the great national tragedy has caused in recent times, and three or four are related to various other issues. That is why many of these amendments, as I have heard at least from some of the speakers in the New Democracy, are voting for them. But I'd like to stand by for one or two minutes in the apology we never talked about. Ladies and gentlemen, apologies are not an empty word. The people say that "since the apology came out, the honor is lost." The patronage is an act of reassurance to the Greek people that we are next to him. We've had a lot of tragedies. I don't want to list them. It is a shame to do so, because I may again be accused of settling off. It is at this very moment that, like our Parliamentary representative, Christos Mantas, has just pointed out, we should put forward our proposals, we should join forces, we should see in what ways we can have the fewest loss of human souls in this country. Finally, because there have been disputes with Members of the Golden Dawn in high tones, which might be avoided, I would like to say this: It is a party that members of it have been convicted of criminal offences, they are suspected...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u320	No, you're lying again.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u321	They're indictments.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u322	I'll beg you to place yourself on the bill, Mr. Stephoe.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u323	All right, it's in the conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u324	Don't take the melting look to throw your scroll!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u325	It is not in the debate. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u326	Other members accuse them of charges related to half the Criminal Code. Other members swear on Nazism. They cannot threaten everyone in this House that at some other moment they will be persecuted and imprisoned or charged or punished.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u327	We didn't threaten you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u328	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u329	We are voting for the bill and the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u330	Thank you. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mrs Anna Karamanlis, has the floor for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u331	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, what can we say about the amendments again? We lost count. Why haste on all matters and without logic? Rhetoric and many questions. But everything proves the sloppy and wicked legalization. I would like to dwell on just one point in the vocabulary of the Minister. Besides, most of us have heard it several times. The Minister does not miss the opportunity to triumph the law adopted last year. He doesn't miss the chance to shake our fingers by saying how successful a law is and how much he's disproved us, the bad anti-population guys, who say it's a law that turns the universities back years. However, what he does not say anywhere is that this law has not actually been implemented. In addition to the triumphs, the Minister has called for the opposition parties to be arrested that we do not have a counter-proposal, that we are sterilely critical and that we do not have one of our own plans. Minister, you realise that it is neither the space nor the time that is appropriate for another pre-formative character on your part to wish for consensus. For our plan, Minister, I can give you a clue. There's something that's never been included in yours. There is something, the absence of your own plan, and the Scientific Service of the House, which is the evaluation, documentation and uniform rules. It tells you attributes the Scientific Service of the Parliament: "The integration of TEI into a university institution is equitable with its conversion into a university. Such inclusion needs to be documented and put in place rules which include an assessment of the existing structures and teaching staff of the institution to be integrated into the university, but also a regulation on the time and specific transition procedures, so that the intended university mission and technical higher education, including applied sciences, can be carried out on the one hand.’ As rapporteur for the New Democracy in this draft law, I am going on as a result of the rainyness of the amendments tabled. I was informed, therefore, of the attack of the State Secretary for Sports, Mr Vasiliadis. I was expecting to get the minutes of the House to place myself. So I answer. We are talking about a delirium by Mr Vassiliou, which is obviously annoying. He's probably used to sneezing by specific media. In his desperate attempt to justify the unjustified, he blamed the New Democracy even for the propaganda sin. It takes a really excess of courage to admire oneself as a success, when specific things have been ahead. It seems that Mr Vasiliadis has this nerve. Wasn't it Mr Vasiliadis saying that the most exciting championship in recent years is taking place in his day? Did we watch, yes or no, races never start, races never end, races complete and judged in courtrooms? Yes or no, Mr. Vasileidis? There have also been unfavourable comments on how some judicial bodies operate, to the extent that it has caused control by the Prosecutor of the Ice Arena. Yes or no, Mr. Vasileidis? Yes, I do. Can we talk about fighting football violence, Mr Vassiliou? Will the Deputy Minister of Sports tell us what he is to blame and cannot end during his term of office indiscriminately a final cup? What is to blame and is unable to fight even episodes in amateur charges? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] To finish with the flares - I conclude, Mr President - strange relationships, what Mr Vassiliadis says every time he turns around are rifles in the air. There is no precedent, ladies and gentlemen, another government that is closely associated with the two Undersecretary of Sports, the former director of Mr Vassiliou's predecessor and the former legal adviser of Mr Vassiliadis to be appointed in the U.S. with full wages. Is it true or not, Mr Vassiliou? It's true and you know it. We have the minutes of the meetings. Let Mr Vassiliadis look elsewhere for inter-company relations and communicate containers. So enough about hypocrisy. He can communicately think Mr. Vassiliadis is good, but his failure cannot hide it under the carpet, "flying the ball on the platform". Let's leave the micropole and do the lame thing wrong with his work. And as we learn, he's looking for a constituency. We wish him success in Achaia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u332	Thank you, too. The special buyer of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr. Kefefidou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u333	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I will start with the report of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament and thank you very much for the other Members of this House who have raised a point of substance. There is no need for such a retreat, Mr Minister, if you are in import or off-importation, if you are bound by the recital or if you are not bound by the recital. Here there is clearly a explanatory statement, I would say to you, which is annoying the alarm of your legislation. And he tells you in a very kind way, but "he tells you" that you have open issues, many and serious, which are so serious that he is in danger of changing, that the way higher technical education works is altered. He's in danger of being cancelled. I will not waste any more time in this process that you have literally drowned us in. It is not just a suffocating time, it is not only that you have no intention of dialogue, it is that we have to conclude within three minutes a bill in which we have had enough amendments, and we are talking about twenty-two today, fresh, on the pressing amendments, ten ministerial and twelve Members of Parliament. And you know very well what the twelve Members of Parliament mean. They haven't passed through the General Accounting Office of the State. They haven't been costed. What am I looking for, though? You haven't cost the bill itself here. Floods in the haystacks! Who will find sensitivity to whether or not the parliamentary amendments are costed? But you know what I want to say? That this process which we are following here today, where it rains and risks more than the body of the legislation itself, which is inappropriate, bricks and horns bleak - and I do not put any amendments to that logic, what has come, I am gladly, on our great national subject, to the fires - does not honor you and does not serve the government. I'm sure it doesn't serve her, because as always, you found the opportunity to pass rugs, facilities, micro-services, loose ends, and all this without opening a nostril. And let's go to the unspeakable thing. Here I see fellow Members who say that they are making an honest effort - I respect them, I appreciate them - to tell us that it is unspeakable, but there are already universities that are working, so we will bring it into an account. The Minister himself was forced today, under the laughter of the thing, to say that new positions are being created and "we have thought that within three and a half years we have had a million and a half for this. " Congratulations, Minister. Big reformer you, the muskrat goes to the next. No study, no commitment, no code binding these budgets. All perfect! And I keep going. From this whole process - let it be fast forward - do you know what I'm realizing? That you're legislating in a certain way. The last thing you're interested in is for the tertiary education project to succeed. Your only concern is to close the eye to all those to whom you are addressing, by emiting a clear and clear message, that SYRIZA-ANEL populism is invincible. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Are we going forward with these minds? Is that how you build the future? Is that what you vision of the country? You're working everything. It does not stop you, nor does the fact that this bill is about education, so it is about the new generation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u334	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u335	I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. I wish that half of this commitment, which you have shown to micro-company logic, was shown by the government to the operation of the state and the services for the citizens who left them here and unarmed at the mercy of the fire. And a comment on all the ministers who tabled amendments to the fires. You should know that our support for what needs to be done in the future will have it. This, however, follows on from the completion of responsibilities to those who have licked, to those who have been indifferent, to those who have directed a performance to hide their enormous responsibilities. I close with this: ladies and gentlemen, the inability of a Prime Minister and his Government to deal with an extreme and difficult situation, under conditions, is forgiven. We lived it in the recent past. Cynamicity, analgesia and indifference are never forgiven. And that, you know, won't be forgotten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u336	Thank you. The special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Poppas, now has the floor. Please, Mr Pappas, as I said to Mr Stephos, so that the atmosphere in this House does not become electricity, not to make personal references.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u337	No, I'm not going to report personally, Mr. President. It's nothing to do with personal rivalry and warfare. Controversy is collective. SYRIZA knows that his real political opponent is Golden Dawn and not New Democracy. You know that very well and that is why you are fighting against us. It has become clear now that you have been placed to change the form of Greek society. In the economic sector, your Marxist ideologies will have - clearly this - phenomenal effects. But you are also caught in the field of education. In other words, you want the Greek state from a national state to make it a very colorful, multi-cultural alloy. So this is your fight, this is not your plan - to be honest - that's not just you now. New Democracy has been doing this for years in the field of education. Mrs. Giannakou was Mrs. Reposi's chief when that book came out. Marxism has entered our education since 1974. I would like to say, therefore, that we are opposed to that, Mr Gavroglou. We do not agree with these academic community, the self-government of universities, where remula exists, there are the programs, there are the teachers where "Yiannis is buying and Yiannis drink", there are the control mechanisms where existing ones are called upon to control heads. So we don't agree. There's a party...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u338	Fortunately!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u339	Well, thank God. To close it and it's not charming - it's from an old Greek film, it's well known, people know it - I won't say "it's a lot of money, Mars", but "it's a lot of money, Kostas" as far as tertiary education is concerned. Today there's a crime in here. Today there is an amendment that secretly comes. It's August 1st. You say, "Where will the world know? The last meeting is." The amendment on mushrooms is coming. The legitimate mufts of Thrace treat them as priests. You force them to resign in the sixty-seventh year of age, to make the promise of Tsipras, revealed by Erdogan himself, that Tsipras said: "Erdogan is in a good mood." You have tried, too, Mr Gavroglou, to force them to resign. In fact, a Muslim muft - and it is important to say this - told you a great 'no' like Ioannis Metaxas. You're opening the ferry door to our Thrace. The term 'West Thrace' should not be heard in this Chamber again. Thrace is one. The point of reference is Thrace. There's Thrace and there's its enslaved eastern part. It's over and out. Today, then, there is a crime, a betrayal and I wonder that - in or out of import - patriot Prokopis Pavlopoulos, the President of the Republic will put his signature in this article. Article will now become your bill, which concerns our Thrace. I would also like to say here - and I conclude, Mr President - that the New Democracy of cultural correct and to Erdogan - you also went to Erdogan's oath - said'residents' in this treacherous amendment about mufts. I should also like to say about the other amendments, namely, that I should like to turn to this amendment that Mr Stathakis has brought, where no single human can follow your logic. On the one hand, you have bills to legitimize arbitrary and, on the other, within one day, on the knee literally bring an amendment to break down the houses of the world. And that's not all that's done, but you're also implicating the army in this. Mr Kammens' unbelievable statement that if necessary the army will help demolition homes. Hey, no, Mr. Cammene! The army is to create works. You've been crippled by Kostarak himself, who no longer has an organic position with you. The army is to create works to build works. Imagine the staff of the Armed Forces, along with machines that the Greek people have paid for, to tear down the home of an unfortunate citizen. Also, you mentioned here today and said you'd do an extension of the New Macris cemetery. Apparently, cemeteries do not reach the area to bury their dead. You were fast on it, but too slow the critical two-hour time the fire burned the world. For the Macronissos you said, I would like to say this: I agree with Mr Armalene. It's a monument. Hands off the Macronese. Don't demolish anything from the Macronese. The Macroness will be needed. And if something goes down, it's going to be shattered with social work. You shouldn't be dealing with the Macronese.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u340	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u341	Please, sir! Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u342	Please, Mr. Pappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u343	What do you mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u344	I want to go, then.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u345	Who are you, fascist Nazis? Aren't you ashamed?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u346	What does the Macroness need for?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u347	Call, yell. I want to go, then.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u348	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u349	What are you talking about? What will the Macroness need for?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u350	Call, yell. Call, call 'fascist'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u351	Mr. Pappa, please, finish up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u352	The Macronis will be needed as a national park and as a historical monument.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u353	Who are you terrorizing?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u354	I said I was in agreement with Mr. Armalene. Mr. Wireless, I agree with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u355	Please, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u356	I agree with you. The Memorandum is the Long Island. Mr. Armachene said so.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u357	Please, Mr. Pappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u358	So to you, it's the wind and it's the fascism and the extreme right rhetoric. It's never your fault. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] And if you say anything at one time, you'll say you disagree only because your political opponent tells you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u359	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u360	Mr President, you will give me a minute, because I have been interrupted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u361	I've given you more than five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u362	Mr President, I would just like to say one sentence. You know that the wrath of the people shines, and it really is a fire. It's not the fire in Matty, but it's a real fire of wrath that you're dragging it up with your ruthlessness and your behavior. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Be sure that you will not escape the eternal and legislative "Hybris - Nemesis - Tissie" and the sooner this universe, the lawful, the better it will be for home and people.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u363	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u364	You'll pay, because you have to pay for the miserable things you're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u365	We continue with the special speaker from the river, Mr. Mavrotas.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u366	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u367	I too, Mr President, would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u368	Look, I will give the floor to the parliamentary representative, Mr Manda.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u369	Look, Mr President, we can see that, perhaps in a more covert way, a function of the Golden Dawn within Parliament such as Mr Barbarousis told us a few weeks ago. Immediately threatening the democrats in Ethiopia with "Macronisia"...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u370	Is that what you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u371	Don't interrupt me now. To threaten directly the democracies in Parliament with a new 'Macedonia' is in democracy and the parliamentary Republic and must be condemned by all political forces and, of course, by the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u372	First of all, I will give Mr Delis the floor because he is before Parliament. It goes without saying that with regard to the threat to Members, the Bureau is not talking about this. She's disapproved. It is incomprehensible and indeed within Parliament. Of course, Mr. Pappas said he didn't threaten. On this point, I can't interpret him, but the threat is definitely something...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u373	But we all understood, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u374	Yeah, I'm telling you what he said. And it's written in the Minutes. But the threat is unacceptable if it is considered a threat. Please, Mr. Delis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u375	We just heard that the torturers are coming back, the torturers are about to reopen it. The undercover Golden Dawn criminals have the courage to throw up all their hatred against people fighting to build a life and a world better. [[Applause]] With regard to the article, which also relates to the Macronissos, in order not to change the subject, which has the arrangements for protecting the historical site of the Macronissos, of course this historic place, the place of the testimony, should be protected and raised, the Greek youth should meet him, and the new generation should meet him. And of course all the arbitrarily built there must be destroyed, so that those buildings will remain there, in order to keep the stigma indelible, the shame of that time. But here in the relevant article - and we are very concerned about this - that you are talking about the execution of final protocols to demolition of arbitrary structures. What about the rest? That, you know, reminds us of a little bit of pretense, let's delay a little bit more.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u376	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u377	We say that it is enough for environmental inspectors to report on their own, so that the Macronessus can clean up all of the arbitrary ones. I would also like to make a comment on an amendment that was last minute - it was not the only one - for the education of the applicants, for the structures, for the PPPs in school units, an amendment that we will be voting on, because it comes to correct some malfunctions of the previous legislation, which we voted on. All right, let's vote for it, get it all done, get it legislated. But - and the Minister is here - what about those who work with teachers in these structures? When do you plan to appoint them? We say that they should be appointed immediately at the beginning of schools, because last year they were appointed November, December and most of them in January. Is that how we're going this year? It is a good thing that the big and psychotic talk about the refugees is good, but we should show it in practice too. Finally, in relation to the bill, I think I don't have to say too much. The differences between the JRC and what it says about higher education have emerged, about how it means the degree, about how it means university studies, about all the other parties, which, of course, are shouting, no matter how much they protest in here, are on the same road as the European Union and the OECD. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u378	Thank you, too. We move on to Mr Mavrota, a special speaker of the party The Potami. And you, Mr. Mavrotas, have the floor for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u379	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I should like to begin by saying that it is unacceptable for the Ministry's amendments to be tabled, which have the bill at the last moment, and for them to be in such a form that there are many articles within an amendment, so that you cannot actually vote for one another and not vote for another. That is to say, the MEX, the Agricultural Institute in Chania, along with the muterooms. This is an unacceptable way of legislating. We've got to stop this frustration of...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u380	They're different articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u381	Yes, but they should be voted on as an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u382	They all come to the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u383	Yes, but if we vote on them as an amendment, because they have been put in retrospectively, they will have to be voted in full. And so is the other demolition article, which has other things together. We do not think this way of legislating fits us, even if we are at the end of the summer period, in the Summer Departments and have gathered a lot. As also, the fact that many amendments are 'along with the royal water and the pot'. In the three minutes I have in dentistry, I would like to respond a little to the emphatic objections made by the Minister, that we do not have proposals for higher education. From us, at least, you shouldn't have a complaint, Minister. And for education structures, we have made a proposal for molecules and for student transfer we have sent you proposals and we wait for the Committee on Morphics to see this issue and for the upgrading of high school and introductorys by Mr. Friends, we have sent proposals. Other than if our proposals might not like you. But we always send. For the map of higher education, which you are accusing us of, you have never asked for proposals. Only then in the Committee on Educational Affairs in 2016 have we discussed this and agreed on the basics. You guys changed them later. And you come and tell us that we have no proposals when we had come up with a strategy that said about three types of TEI, that is what is ready, what is going to take three years, what will never happen. And I even read to you from the Minutes of the meeting on June 7, 2016, when we discussed the conclusion at the time, I specifically said: "Let me tell you first of all that we are quite positive about this and the whole of it." And I continued in particular for TEIs: "Here is a great talk we should open about whether we should continue to have the technological educational institutions and whether or not we want the productive model of our country to have those medium technicians in the production pyramid or not. Our opinion is that there should be and have a role to play in the technological foundations." I continued at the end of the day to conclude that "that means that the assessment should be made first and then the decisions should be made not on the basis of client criteria, as we have seen before, that is, that the university, TEI and the notion should not leave my city. " So that was our proposal that was in agreement with your conclusion. But then you changed it. Now you say, and I say it in word, that'some of us can change their position'. I agree. And the great economist of the last century, Kanes, said that "when the data change, I change my mind." That's not bad. Just tell us which data have changed in this case and you have changed your mind. Was the ministering, the roundabouts? So do not blame us for a lack of positions in this House in order to justify changing your positions. I should like to say on the vote on the amendments that, although we agree with a number of them, if they come as amendments as a whole and not as separate articles, we shall vote 'at present'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u384	Thank you very much. Mr. Megamomustakas, special speaker of the Centro Association, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u385	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to repeat something that I said to the committees, but also to my previous position, today in the department. You shouldn't tell half the truth, not to lie. Because it's not even half. Less than half of the articles in this bill came for consultation. We must therefore make this clear, and if we add the amendments, then even 1/5 has not been consulted. It's clear. From there on, I would like to refer to two amendments which I did not have time to do in the previous place. I would like to begin with Amendment 1733, which comes from eight ministers and with which you are tearing down the arbitrary forces in Attica. Unsatisfactory there are others. You've seen what's happening online, or I hope you've been informed, with pictures of indignant citizens, who show what the illegality is all over Greece. We've seen buildings on the cavalry. So, as I said, here we should not enter impression games. What you should do is to make a plan so that the Greeks can acquire proper education in such conditions - we have seen how many victims we have mourned a few days ago - and then make the most of technology. I have said too many times from this Step forward that technology is an instrument that we must use to our benefit. There are too many reports and too many reports of institutions, which tell us that the "EVITA" system has been inacted, a system that would help a lot, because within the meteorological station the system could, without doing any more work, analyse the elements that were in place and the components that were at that time in that area and not come out now and say that the wind didn't come from the same direction that always came, that it was very strong, etc. In fact, this system could with a small improvement automatically update through their mobile phones and everyone who was in that area. So let us solve the problem by catching its essential aspects, and these are certainly not, in order to create noise, just tear down the arbitrary ones in Attica. You had three years. You didn't. You're doing it now. If that's not a communal trick, then what is it? The other amendment I would like to mention is 1730, and I would like to refer to Rule 48, as has now come to 'the ink'. It is an article, which for us is a national issue. We believe that the provision that mufts should leave after the sixty-seventh year of their age should not apply. Our diplomatic office worked hard these few hours to find out why you are doing this and we are sure this article follows the meeting with the Minister and Mr. Papadakis Mufftis Xanthis, where he was actually asked to resign. The same was requested by Muftis of Komotini. Why? We have examined the issue in detail and have seen that these two mushrooms are contrary to what is happening in Turkey, contrary to the regime imposed by Erdogan. Why would you come and satisfy Sultan's small or large charms? What makes you do it? We are asking directly, even now, for this article to be withdrawn. We really believe that you will make a huge mistake - so that I do not call it more heavy - if you vote, when the Greek officers have been in Turkish prisons for 154 days, if you get involved in an Oriental bazaar with 'Sultan'. You must act seriously and responsibly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u386	Thank you, too. The Minister has the floor, Mr Gavroglou.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u387	Thank you, Mr President. I shall begin with some clarifications. You remember - I hope - that Parliament unanimously - other than the Golden Dawn - had voted for the voluntaryity of the sharia. The law, which we have voted on, provides for a presidential decree on the operation of mushrooms. This function of muftas, which has various organisational and procedural issues, etc., said to be the result of the consultation of a scientific committee, in which the parties would indicate a number of people. So the Presidential Decree has taken its course to the Council of State. So what did we do? We tried to settle the operation of the mushrooms. So the mufts themselves must be included in all the provisions of normality. So as the judges retire at sixty-seven, the same must apply to mufts - do not give him another dimension beyond that - and of course immediately the appointment of localists from the decentralised administration, as the '91s Act etc. So we can go down there. Today, the two mufts, who have indeed conscientiously worked, etc., are eighty years old one and eighty of one year old. It's not a sin age, but when we say we have to settle structures, everyone has to be the same in the eyes of the law. I'm sure the mufts themselves will want to get into this process. On the subject of priests, it is very important that teachers be highly educated. One of the reasons why we founded the direction of Muslim studies at the Theological School of the University of Thessaloniki, is just him. We want to give a small extension until there are the first graduates from this department. Mr Mustafa raised a very serious issue that we have to do a lot of work to do, and that is education in Thrace, education in our own children, children from Muslim families. There, therefore, schools need to be upgraded. There's got to be new schools. Teachers and teachers must go well trained. We also need to strengthen very much the six pilot kindergartens, which started to operate this year after many difficulties and which we will multiply next year. All of this really strengthens children’s education. I am not even going to comment and I will be challengingly ignoring the creepy statements, suggestions and the look of the Golden Dawn. As a democracy we have to tolerate them, but these things must not be said in here. But you know, no more things should be said. If we have any doubts about how our policy is defined in national matters, we have to come out and say so. Don't make a lot of strange associations. We have shown and will show that we need to settle regimes, which have been working for decades and no one wanted to hurt. These are the dilemmas of democracy, and that's what we're going to do. Mr Delis is concerned - and he is right about this - about the appointment of teachers for the training of refugees. Indeed, it has been our responsibility - because there is an incredible bureaucracy behind all of this - that has been delayed over the past few years. This year, we are completing all procedures much earlier than the other years, and we really hope that this training with teachers will begin on time. There is something that Mr Sevastakis has pointed out to us and which, for technical reasons, did not go into the amendments, and that is: there is a difficulty, a refusal by the Court of Auditors to approve the expenditure incurred on the costs of the school races. I would also ask the Court of Auditors to look at this issue. The money is available in the regional administrations. The legislation is very clear, regional directorates can cost all these activities. I would ask the Court of Auditors to see it again.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u388	It's the three Pardroi.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u389	The three specific Pardroys. If this is not solved, it is quite clear that in September we will resolve them. However, there is no reason to resolve legislative matters that already exist legislation. Now Mr. Kefaliannis has been mentioned for the study of IOBE. Look, we do have differences. Differences are not in the process method. Scientists are people, I read it, and I read it very thoroughly, and that is not our point. We have the same difficulty of understanding and certainly very difficult agreement as we have with the New Democracy. In other words, there is a unique link between the labour market and higher education. In this we have differences, what do we do? And our differences are very deep. For us, it is not just a criterion of the success of higher education if you find work or not. Whether or not it's about the economy has something to do with what you're learning. For us, however, the educational element of higher education is very, very important. And here, as you know, we are completely different with New Democracy and, of course, with IOBE. I would like to comment on a few things that have been said or at least a few things that have not been said. I would like to welcome the fact that for the first time the New Democracy has not mentioned the establishment of universities of applied sciences. It was one thing out of place and time. This was called by her leader, Mr. Mitsotakis, in Parliament, adopted by some. We argued that these are outdated shapes, they are shapes of the 1960s and they have nothing to do with today. Also, I salute that...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u390	I mentioned it today.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u391	Did you mention it? Yes, that's even worse. In any case, if you mentioned it, then I take it back that you may have been convinced that it is not something for our time. What I would like to say, however, is that Mrs Karamanlis and all the New Democracy Members who have spoken seem to have a much more complex thinking than the proclaimed educational policy of the New Democracy. Do you know who this is? Private universities, again private universities, again private universities and abolishing Balta, Friend and Gavroglou laws. This packet has been solved. We didn't hear that. I think we should say good-bye. From the debate, which lasted four hours in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, some things are now clear. No party questioned the account we made a year after the framework law that we voted on last year. I'm talking about a party. Mrs Karamanlis, in her denunciation, said: 'But how can we question it when it has not yet worked'? I think it's badly informed. It started to work the next day. In the meantime, there have been elections in Republican, postgraduate studies, etc. So no party has questioned it. I insist that it is a feature of the maturity of the conversation that is taking place in here. Secondly, no party mentioned a single problem for the University of Western Attica. And that's a good thing. I am not saying that you must do self-criticism, and so on, because I do not think Parliament should be operating this way. Parliament must be able to operate on a reciprocal basis. So no party...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u392	It didn't work.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u393	It didn't work. Uh, what to do that's been working for six months. Understand? You see, I don't want to mislead you that you're caring for the problems, but when you have an administrator and doing this project, do you know how much things have to be done to accept students? You think something works only when she accepts students. It's not like that. It needs to be prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u394	Don't underestimate us! We know from command.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u395	You know from command. I'm glad. So if you know, one more reason because you didn't mention...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u396	That's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u397	That's what I'm saying. One more reason, since you know from an administration, that you did not mention a single problem - because they are administrative until now - at the University of Western Attica.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u398	We have tabled a question to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u399	Thirdly, no party - and you will allow me - has presented no alternative plan for the future of higher education. Of course, we must be fair, there are individual proposals. However, a comprehensive plan, by means of a process, with transitional steps, has not been presented for so many days in the Committee on Forums, and today it has not been presented. Of course, it became quite clear that what we are proposing, what we are proposing, has nothing to do with combinations, it has nothing to do with mergers, it has nothing to do with ruffles - it is not my own word - it has nothing to do with the service of local interests. That's what it looks like. What are the next steps? The next steps in terms of universities, I'll tell you right away. As far as our own legislative initiatives are concerned, it will be to bring in September a bill for the University of Athens and for the University of Thessaly. This draft will include provisions for the irreversible. I would like to stress again - because there has been a joke, at best - that our commitments to the number of posted teachers and to the emergency funding not in three years' time, but in full compliance with them. So it's all right, then? Everything all right? Everything great? Mr. Maddash said so too. And yes and no. And I say yes and no, because it is now beginning for both institutions a difficult, complex and complex period in this unprecedented project, which, based on our programming, we wanted to coincide with the new period that begins for our country. There is a lot of work to be done in consultation with both institutions and within the transition Councils. There is a lot of work to be done in setting up research institutes. A lot of work has to be done in the new curricula. There is a lot of work, with academic dignity, to be done in the judgments of TEI teachers. And there is a great deal of work to be done in calling for new posts to be filled. It's what we'll be relentless about. There are infinite scientists out there. Let us choose the most worthy, those who want to offer and are too many, there are many more of the positions we have given. Because of them, the dynamics of our foundations and our venture will depend. It's a project that's being watched by society as a whole. It is a project that will strengthen the authority of the public - I stress it, of the public - of the university, and that is what we all need to work on. I really want to thank our colleagues from the universities who participated in the committees and participated in a truly creative way. I would also like to thank our colleagues and colleagues at the Ministry personally and, of course, my fellow ministers, the Secretary-General and the other Secretary-General who have managed to compose such a difficult thing. If we said a year ago that after a year - last August we were voting for the law - we would vote for such a law, too many would laugh. And they wouldn't just laugh at this Chamber. A lot of people would think we're back in a fantastic context again. And yet we did it. I am convinced that the reason why we did this is because the dialogue over partyism has triumphed over politicism. With this dialogue we have managed to live with our differences and we have all been able to move. Moving doesn't mean everyone's backing up and finding averages. Everyone listens and can move on. I mean, we did it because democracy worked. And she'll take us to the next day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u400	The debate on the principle and the articles of the draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: 'University of Ioannina, Ionian University and other provisions' is closed. Questioned by the Department: Can the bill be accepted in principle?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u401	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u402	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u403	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u404	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u405	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u406	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u407	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u408	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u409	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: "University of Ioannina, Ionian University and other provisions", was accepted in principle by a majority. We are entering the motion for a resolution. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 1 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u410	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u411	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u412	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u413	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u414	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u415	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u416	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u417	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u418	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Is Article 2 acceptable, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u419	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u420	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u421	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u422	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u423	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u424	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u425	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u426	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u427	Article 2 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can Article 3, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u428	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u429	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u430	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u431	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u432	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u433	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u434	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u435	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u436	Article 3 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can Article 4, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u437	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u438	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u439	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u440	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u441	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u442	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u443	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u444	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u445	Article 4 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 5 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u446	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u447	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u448	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u449	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u450	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u451	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u452	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u453	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u454	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u455	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u456	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u457	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u458	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u459	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u460	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u461	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u462	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u463	Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Is Article 7 acceptable, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u464	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u465	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u466	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u467	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u468	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u469	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u470	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u471	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u472	Article 7 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 8 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u473	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u474	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u475	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u476	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u477	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u478	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u479	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u480	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u481	Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 9 be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u482	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u483	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u484	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u485	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u486	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u487	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u488	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u489	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u490	Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 10 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u491	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u492	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u493	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u494	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u495	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u496	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u497	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u498	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u499	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u500	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u501	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u502	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u503	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u504	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u505	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u506	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u507	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u508	Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Can Article 12, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u509	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u510	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u511	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u512	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u513	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u514	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u515	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u516	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u517	Article 12 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 13 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u518	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u519	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u520	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u521	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u522	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u523	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u524	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u525	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u526	Article 13 has therefore been accepted as majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 14 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u527	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u528	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u529	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u530	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u531	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u532	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u533	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u534	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u535	Article 14 has therefore been accepted as majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 15 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u536	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u537	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u538	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u539	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u540	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u541	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u542	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u543	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u544	Article 15 was therefore accepted as being majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 16 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u545	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u546	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u547	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u548	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u549	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u550	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u551	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u552	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u553	Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 17 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u554	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u555	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u556	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u557	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u558	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u559	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u560	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u561	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u562	Article 17 was therefore accepted as being majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 18 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u563	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u564	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u565	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u566	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u567	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u568	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u569	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u570	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u571	Article 18 was therefore accepted as being majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 19 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u572	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u573	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u574	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u575	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u576	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u577	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u578	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u579	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u580	Article 19 was therefore accepted as being majority. Asked by the Department: Can Article 20 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u581	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u582	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u583	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u584	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u585	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u586	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u587	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u588	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u589	Article 20 was therefore accepted as being majority. Questioned by the Department: Is Article 21 accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u590	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u591	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u592	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u593	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u594	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u595	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u596	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u597	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u598	Article 21 was therefore accepted as being majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 22 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u599	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u600	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u601	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u602	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u603	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u604	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u605	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u606	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u607	Article 22 was therefore accepted as being majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 23 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u608	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u609	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u610	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u611	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u612	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u613	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u614	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u615	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u616	Article 23 was therefore accepted as being majority. Is Article 24 acceptable, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u617	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u618	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u619	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u620	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u621	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u622	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u623	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u624	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u625	Article 24 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 25 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u626	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u627	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u628	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u629	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u630	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u631	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u632	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u633	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u634	Article 25 was therefore accepted as being majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 26 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u635	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u636	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u637	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u638	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u639	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u640	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u641	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u642	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u643	Article 26 was therefore accepted as being majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 27 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u644	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u645	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u646	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u647	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u648	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u649	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u650	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u651	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u652	Article 27 was therefore accepted as being majority. Questions to the Department: Can Article 28 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u653	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u654	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u655	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u656	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u657	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u658	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u659	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u660	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u661	Article 28 was therefore accepted as being majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 29 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u662	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u663	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u664	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u665	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u666	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u667	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u668	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u669	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u670	Article 29 was therefore accepted as being majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 30 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u671	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u672	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u673	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u674	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u675	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u676	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u677	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u678	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u679	Article 30 has therefore been accepted as majority. Questioned by the Department: Is Article 31 accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u680	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u681	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u682	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u683	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u684	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u685	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u686	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u687	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u688	Article 31 was therefore accepted as being majority. Questioned by the Department: Is Article 32 accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u689	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u690	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u691	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u692	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u693	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u694	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u695	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u696	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u697	Article 32 has therefore been accepted as majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 33 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u698	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u699	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u700	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u701	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u702	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u703	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u704	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u705	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u706	Article 33 has therefore been accepted as majority. Can Article 34, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u707	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u708	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u709	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u710	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u711	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u712	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u713	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u714	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u715	Article 34 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Is Article 35 acceptable, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u716	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u717	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u718	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u719	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u720	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u721	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u722	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u723	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u724	Article 35 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 36 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u725	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u726	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u727	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u728	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u729	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u730	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u731	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u732	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u733	Article 36 was therefore accepted as being majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 37 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u734	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u735	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u736	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u737	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u738	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u739	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u740	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u741	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u742	Article 37 was therefore accepted as being majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 38 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u743	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u744	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u745	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u746	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u747	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u748	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u749	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u750	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u751	Article 38 was therefore accepted as being majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 39 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u752	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u753	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u754	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u755	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u756	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u757	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u758	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u759	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u760	Article 39 has therefore been accepted as majority. Questions to the Department: Can the amendment be accepted under a general number 1726 and a special number 185 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u761	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u762	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u763	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u764	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u765	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u766	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u767	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u768	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u769	Therefore, the amendment under general number 1726 and a special 185 were accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Will the section be asked: is the amendment accepted under a general number 1727 and a special number of 186 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u770	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u771	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u772	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u773	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u774	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u775	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u776	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u777	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u778	Therefore, the amendment under general number 1727 and a special 186 were accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Questions to the Department: Can the amendment be accepted under a general number of 1728 and a special number of 187 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u779	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u780	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u781	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u782	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u783	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u784	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u785	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u786	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u787	The amendment under number 1728, and a special 187, has therefore been accepted as it stands and is part of the bill as the same article. Questions to the Department: Can the amendment be accepted under a general number of 1729 and a special number of 188 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u788	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u789	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u790	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u791	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u792	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u793	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u794	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u795	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u796	Therefore, the amendment under general number 1729 and a special 188 were accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Questions to the Department: Can the amendment be accepted under a general number of 1730 and a special number of 189?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u797	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u798	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u799	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u800	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u801	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u802	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u803	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u804	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u805	Therefore, the amendment of a general number 1730 and a specialist of 189 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Will the Section be allowed to accept the amendment with a general number of 1731 and a special number 190, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u806	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u807	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u808	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u809	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u810	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u811	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u812	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u813	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u814	Therefore, the amendment of a general number 1731 and a special 190 was accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Will the Section be asked: is the amendment accepted under a general number of 1733 and a special number of 192 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u815	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u816	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u817	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u818	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u819	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u820	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u821	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u822	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u823	Therefore, the amendment under general number 1733 and a special 192 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Questions to the Department: Can the amendment be accepted under a general number 1715 and a special number 174 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u824	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u825	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u826	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u827	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u828	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u829	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u830	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u831	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u832	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1715 and a specialist 174 was accepted as it stands and is part of the bill as the same article. Will the section be asked: is the amendment accepted under a general number 1716 and a special number of 175 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u833	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u834	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u835	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u836	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u837	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u838	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u839	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u840	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u841	Therefore, the amendment under general number 1716 and a special 175 were accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Will the section be asked: is the amendment accepted under a general number 1717 and a special number 176 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u842	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u843	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u844	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u845	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u846	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u847	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u848	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u849	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u850	Therefore, Amendment No 1717 and Special Representative No 176 were accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Will the Section be allowed to accept the amendment with a general number of 1721 and a specific 180 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u851	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u852	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u853	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u854	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u855	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u856	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u857	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u858	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u859	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1721 and a specialist of 180 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Will the section be asked: is the amendment accepted under a general number 1722 and a specific number of 181 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u860	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u861	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u862	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u863	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u864	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u865	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u866	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u867	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u868	Therefore, the amendment under general number 1722 and a special 181 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Will the section be asked: is the amendment accepted under a general number 1723 and a specialist of 182 as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u869	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u870	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u871	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u872	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u873	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u874	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u875	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u876	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u877	Therefore, the amendment under general number 1723 and a special 182 was accepted as it is majority and is part of Article 25 of the bill. Question No 1724 by the Section: Is the amendment accepted by a general number of 1724 and a specialist of 183 in its own right?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u878	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u879	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u880	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u881	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u882	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u883	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u884	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u885	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u886	Therefore, the amendment under general number 1724 and a special 183 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Will the Section be allowed to accept the amendment with a general number of 1732 and a special number of 191 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u887	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u888	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u889	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u890	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u891	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u892	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u893	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u894	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u895	Therefore, the amendment under general number 1732 and a special 191 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Will the Section be allowed to accept the amendment with a general number of 1734 and a special number 193, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u896	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u897	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u898	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u899	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u900	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u901	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u902	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u903	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u904	Therefore, Amendment No 1734 and a special 193 were accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Questions to the Department: Can the amendment be accepted under a general number 1735 and a special 194 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u905	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u906	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u907	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u908	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u909	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u910	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u911	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u912	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u913	The amendment under number 1735 and a special 194 were therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Questions to the Section: Can the amendment be accepted under a general number 1736 and a special number 195 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u914	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u915	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u916	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u917	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u918	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u919	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u920	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u921	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u922	Therefore, the amendment of a general number 1736 and a special 195 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Questioned by the Department: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u923	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u924	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u925	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u926	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u927	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u928	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u929	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u930	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u931	The late payment was made by a majority vote. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: "University of Ioannina, Ionian University and other provisions" was accepted by a majority in principle, articles and amendments. Questioned by the Department: Can the bill be accepted in the whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u932	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u933	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u934	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u935	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u936	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u937	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u938	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u939	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u940	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of Environment, Energy and Climate Change: ‘University of Ioannina, Ioannina and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of articles and all and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u941	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the Chamber to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u942	The Department therefore granted the requested authorisation. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-01-S1-commons.u943	The meeting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday, August 2, 2018 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of the section's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
