ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 22-2-2018, the minutes of its PRACTICAL Sessions of Thursday, 28 February 2018, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: "Definition of 2 February 2018 amendment and codification in a single text of the Concession Convention between the Greek State and the Port Authority of Thessaloniki S.A." and other provisions.’;]] Ladies and gentlemen, before we enter the debate of topical and urgent questions scheduled for today, I have the honour of announcing to the House the topical and urgent debate on Monday 26 February 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1111/20-2-2018 topical question by MP Dodecanese of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Dimitrios Gakis to the Minister of Health on "Measures for the dental treatment of disabled children in the island." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 1123/20-2-2018 topical question of the Member of the Republic of Attica Mr Georgiou Vlachos to the Minister of Health on the application of claw back to all contracted and non-manufacturers, importers, distributors/suppliers of medical devices. 3. The question asked by MP Elias of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Finance on the subject: "Without provision for the protection of first residence, the circular for electronic auctions from 1-5-2018." 4. The 1116/20-2-2018 topical question by MP Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Stavros Tassos to the Minister of Health, on measures for the proper functioning of the Centre for the Health of Mitilini. 5. The question by number 1108/20-2-2018 that was asked by MP II Athens of the Independent Greeks Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights on "Death of a 20-year-old prisoner in Larissa". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1113/20-2-2018 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Alexandros Triantafylides to the Minister of Health on the subject: "Pediatric Hospital in Western Thessaloniki". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 1124/20-2-2018 topical question of the New Democracy MP, Nikis Kerameos, Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Tracy and lawlessness in higher institutions are under review." 3. The question asked by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Finance on the subject: "Dangerous developments regarding the sale of EUCI "The National". 4. The 1112/20-2-2018 topical question by MP Xanthi of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Gregorios Stojannidis to the Minister of Finance on the subject: "Following the licensed number of jobs in casinos". 5. The 998/6-2-2018 topical question by MP Fthiotidas of New Democracy Mr Christos Stakouras to the Minister of Finance on the subject: "An overview of general government expenditure". 6. The Question No 1005/6-2-2018 by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Finance on the subject: "To be paid to the former employees of ATE all that is due to them". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question asked by Mr Ioannis Saridis, Member of the European Parliament, Mr Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Who is the exact balance of the bank account of Law 128/1975?". 8. The Question by MP Larisa of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Konstantinos Bargiotas to the Minister of Health on the subject: "When will a National Action Plan against Drugs finally be drawn up and adopted?" 9. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Health about the problems of lack of personnel, building infrastructure and equipment at the Hospital of Agios Nikolaos Lassithi. 10. Under number 948/30-1-2018, a timely question by MP Fthiotidas of New Democracy Mr Christos Stakouras to the Minister of Finance on the subject: ‘Enlargement and completion of the process of repayment of public debts to private individuals’. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) Question No 2290/28-12/2017 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMARK Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance on the subject: "To renew the concession of use to the Ministry of Justice in order to proceed with the maintenance and improvement of the existing Judicial Palace of Heraklion (Court of First Instance/Privacy building)". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Let me first announce what questions will not be discussed and why. The first under number 1121/20-2-2018, the first question of the first cycle of Athens, New Democracy, Doras Bakoyannis, to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "The fight against the smuggling of fuels and cigarettes has become a joke", will not be discussed due to lack of competence. The Ministry of Finance is the Ministry of Finance. The second question, under number 1090/14-2-2018, of the second question of the MP Argolias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARMAR Mr.Ioannis Maniotis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Arrival of a saturated electricity network of the Peloponnese" will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister responsible, Mr. Stathakis. The sixth question, under number 1008/7-2-2018, of the second question by MP II Thessaloniki of the Independent Greeks Mr.George Lazarides to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the subject: "Adaptation of the debt arrangements to PPC in social and economic reality and a specific provision in areas with S.A.", will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Minister responsible, Mr. Stathakis. The fourth question under number 1080/13-2-2018 of the New Democracy MP, Andreas Katsaniotis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: “Havaluation and effects on coastal areas of Achaia”, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Socrates Famelos. On behalf of the entire House, to say our condolences to Mr Famello about the death of his wife. Also, the fifth question, under number 1081/13-2-2018, of the second question by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the creation of a landfill area for hazardous waste (HHYTEA) in Megalopolis, will not be discussed for the same reason. Finally, the second question under number 1139/92/13-11-2017 and application for the submission of documents of the Athens Chamber of Deputies of the Republic of Athens - DIMAR Mr Georgiou - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister for Migration Policy on the subject: 'An unjustified delay in the drafting and publication of the quarterly Reports of the Authority of Appeals against the decisions of the Asylum Office' will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Minister responsible, Mr Ioannis Mousalas. For all the above, there is a letter from the Secretary of Government confirming the obstacles that I have mentioned to you. So we begin the debate with the first under number 1122/20-2-2018, the second time question from the New Democracy MP, Mr. Konstantinos Javara, on the subject of "Brand purchase of red loans from borrowers". The Minister of Economy and Development will answer Mr. Dimitrios Papadimitriou. It's an extremely interesting question! You should know, ladies and gentlemen, that there is damage and so on the canals you won't see the time. But I'll see the time as it works here. As we do not have many questions which will be discussed today, there will be a slight tolerance for both Members and the Minister. Mr. Javarra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u2	Minister, with my question, I would like to bring to the parliamentary front an issue which concerns the whole of society, of course, apart from the media and a number of factors, to which the banking system bears implicitly. I am referring to what is happening with the red loans in this place. Under the provisions of Articles 1 to 3 of Law4354/2015, your Government has foreseen the possibility to sell subordinated and unserved red loans to loan management companies. This possibility has been foreseen and legislated without such a sale being conditional on any condition or condition, except as originally provided for in respect of loans linked to first residence. This protection, the exception, was valid until 31/12/2017. In other words, this is not the case today in this House. There's an issue that's big. In the banks, the government keeps a distance, which I do not know if it is ironic, but it is very revealing as to the intentions of the government. The government doesn't want to regulate the banking scenery. And, of course, I am not talking about macroeconomic or budgetary. I am referring to the relations between banks and borrowers, that is to say, a relationship which is related to the protection of consumers' financial interests, which, on the basis of Law 2251, these economic interests are protected by the State. You cannot make viewers and leave banks with so-called codes of conduct to regulate as they wish, and in their interest, relations with borrowers and even with a volume of borrowers whose requirements relate to consumer loans or loans derived from credit cards. Minister, you must be aware that interest rates in these cases are 20%, 22% and 24%. In no civilised country is there such a tachyphic, such a robbery of citizens as far as their consumer relations are concerned. And here this government quietly and lets the banks come, it is assumed, in some debate, in some consultation with consumers, that it is because it wants to solve issues. What are these matters? What banks are proposing is that there should be an extension of ten or twenty years in their loan. It does not accept to deal with the reduction or derecognition of interest on coupons, except in cases where the borrower is completely indebted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u3	Mr. Javarra, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u4	I shall conclude, Mr President, and I shall come back. I just want to raise a few other issues with the Minister, so that I can hear his reply completely. For all other cases of borrowers, i.e. those who, while they have property, consider their obligation and self-evident duty to defend it against the loan-government real and robbery views of the banks, for the majority of them - because there are exceptions - you have invented the term "strategic maladministration". Finally, you have to deal with this, so that we do not come after two or three years and say that the political system, at the time of this scandal, did not understand. So today, is there a need to take measures and I would like to say to you, with my question, that you intend to give the municipalities, chambers and other institutional entities the opportunity to manage these claims from these loans? Because what has been said and you have pointed it out in your interview, that you are allegedly excluded from all this population of borrowers only by the military, you should know that it is against, violated and abused the principle of equality of the Constitution. Finally, you have to tell us: Do you intend to legislate on the arrangement adopted in 2015 by the Republic of Cyprus and before these loans were sold the debtor concerned was invited to declare whether on the same terms he wishes to buy his loan?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Javarra, you don't have any more time. In relative comfort too, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President. Before I answer your question, Mr Javarra, I would like to inform you that interest rates in America on credit loans are 29%. So it's the banking system. It's not just in this country that's happening. I would now like to reply to the core of your question, and I would like to say that it is a different matter whether the credit institution is obliged to propose to the debtor the acquisition of his loan under the same conditions as the candidate issuer, i.e. the so-called fund. Such a legal obligation does not exist, as such a regulation would encourage the creation of strategic malpractices - and we insist on that - without giving any help to those who really need it. And I'm telling you. If a person has the ability to repay his loan and knows beforehand that the credit institution prior to its claim, instead of paying a percentage, is required to propose the redemption of the loan instead of the same percentage, you understand that this debtor knows that it is in his interest not to repay his loan, with the prospect of benefiting a significant proportion of his debt on the redemption. Such regulation will therefore create a large number of strategic misappropriations. So let us assume that such a regulation is introduced. Since the funds buy cash loans, the preferential scheme means that the debtor should be given the opportunity to buy his borrowing again in cash. However, the debtor who is all at his disposal and is consistent with his obligations and became inconsistent because of the difficult economic circumstances will not have cash the rate of claim the fund will offer. If he had it, he'd have paid for it. The preferential scheme therefore does not provide solutions to the weak in need. The funds when purchasing loans do not provide a separate price for each individual loan. On the contrary, they offer a total price for a package of large number of loans that have been formed in advance by the credit institution and normally includes both serviceable and non-performing loans. Because I don't have enough time, I'd like to answer...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u7	You'll have tolerance, go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u8	Good. The establishment, therefore, of a preferential scheme would henceforth lead the credit institution to offer a package of loans for sale, to receive a proposal for a total price from the fund and subsequently to amend the package for sale, deducting from it the less precarious requirements. This would not constitute a serious sale of loans. This is why a preferential regime for debtors is not possible. Our priority, however, - and this government's priority - is the effective protection of the weak debtor. To this end, we are working in order to successfully implement the extrajudicial system of corporate debt regulation, and we are working on an amendment of the law on overdue households, taking into account proposals from consumer associations. With regard to your second question, this would be possible if OTAs or chambers set up a public limited company authorised by the Bank of Greece, which, according to its statute, can manage loans and credit claims and has the appropriate amount of equity. They should, in other words, meet the criteria of Law No.4389/2016 and Law No.4354/2015 - which are the laws on funds - for obtaining a special licence for a management company or for obtaining loans and credit claims. The same bodies may not obtain a licence as they are legal entities governed by public law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u9	Mr. Minister, before I give Mr. Javarra the floor for those of us who pay for our loans, will there be any discussion about us who actually support the banks?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u10	There's no mercy for them!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u11	Because now you know what's going on? Answer your dentistry. Even if we go to pay off - because we have the money - we are asked by the banks for the 'penalty', we are told 'Get the money, but you're not getting away with it'. Is there gonna be a word for them? And for you, Mr. Javarra, it's the question. Here, you have the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u12	First of all, Minister, I would like to thank you for the information you were kind enough to offer me, telling me that in America loans are running at 29% interest rate. The first conclusion that you will allow me to draw from this position is that, as long as you have been absent for so many years from Greece - because of what I know you were in America, where things are well known - unfortunately, I find that you are still so absent now that you have become Minister. Because I cannot imagine that a government minister has not realised that nine years now all incomes in Greece have been reduced. Wages, pensions, income, rent have been paid off. All that has not been reduced - listen to me to the information - is bank interest. I inform you, Minister, that deposit rates in Greece are 1% and 2%. The interest rates on the loan are from 10% to 12%. And if the borrower happens to have fallen victim to this unpaid credit expansion of the decades 1990 to 2010 - when unpaid loans and cards were given, then that was when he had other incomes - today when his incomes have been minused or halved, this man is worthy of protection in Greece on the basis of the Constitution and the laws. I don't know what's going on in America. You are the Minister of the left government, who governs the place in a time of crisis in Greece. You have to tell us, do you agree, that there should be a 22% and 24% interest rate under these economic conditions, when the loan rate - and I mean loans - is 1% and 2%? And something else much more serious. I want you to tell me this. Someone in 2005 or 2006 or 2007 had a credit card of EUR 20,000. You can count on 22% and 24% - if he was a retired person, a private person who has lost his job - today from interest and just how much has this loan reached, which you give the right, without the debtor being asked to sell at the bank? Listen, or I'll let you know. The banks have served in this very "precious" story of selling these loans under the following conditions. So far, I've got two such sales in mind. I won't mention names of banks for good reasons. One case gave loans of 1,33 billion to a company, which has the name of the goddess Artemis, is a hunter of such cases, obviously. This package of 1.33 billion has been sold instead of 70 million. The other bank provided 1.5 billion instead of 45 million. In other words, the second bank for each 100 euros received EUR 3. And I ask, this money with which the bank is entitled to manage it in this way, when it is a given that the entire Greek people have contributed once and twice to the recapitalisation of these banks and with what right, in terms of justice and equality, what it does to the funds, to do to the citizens as well? There is no point in that, Minister. There is a question of legality and even constitutional legitimacy, because the same things cannot be regulated in a disparate manner. But you left-wing ones, for the first time, show the majesty of your involvement in protecting the interests, the lawless, the tachypical interests of certain forms of economic exploitation. Why is it economic exploitation, what the President has said, to distinguish between those who have a fortune and to whom the banking system, even for these tachographic claims, is imprudent in any claim for redemption, and those who are well-paid, that is to say, those who at the same time defend their trade consistency and their personal dignity, do not find any protection, at least on the part of the State for equal treatment? This tale you keep saying that you are protecting the weak, no longer makes any sense. As I said yesterday, you are already naked from ideology and politics in the eyes of every citizen. The only cover of your nakedness is the systematic effort to divide people and political forces, bringing issues that would not have any value and meaning, if you had no position in terms...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Javarra, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u14	...the old system that we are and the new system that you are. In what, then, have you innovated in this political life?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u15	Mr. Javarra, close up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u16	What have you brought, to be entitled by the Greek people...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u17	Mr. Javarra, you're not listening to me. I can't anymore. I've left you for six minutes instead of three.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u18	So what I want to say and what I'm ending is this. Thank you for your tolerance, but you said you'd give us a...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u19	I gave it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u20	Because this is a very serious matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u21	I gave, but we can't...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u22	But I insist. You have already committed yourself to another blow, like the Minister of National Defence. You have said that you will recognize such a possibility at the Economic Agency of Military Staff of the Drought and the Navy. This is discrimination, which cannot be justified by anywhere on the basis of the Constitution and the laws. Why are you doing this? You are doing so, precisely because you are aiming for customers, following and costing the most evil pages of our post-military history.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u23	Minister, you have the floor for relative comfort of time. If you want, you'll have it too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u24	Mr Javarra, I am not used to making political controversy, but I must say that I am surprised, in the face of this behaviour you have. Whether what I said, Mr. Javarra...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u25	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u26	As you yell, I'll yell now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u27	Call.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u28	What you said - and I answered - about America, is that it's the only country here that has 29% interest rate.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u29	Mr. Javarra, please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u30	I told you this wasn't the only country. So don't tell me, because I'm from Greece that I don't know what's going on in the country. You have mixed consumer loans with housing. Housing loans do not have 29%. They have 3%, they have 4% and they are much cheaper than other countries. The other thing I would also like to say to you - I do not want to confront what the government has done - is to look at what has been done with upgrading the economy of the country by MODY'S and all the other credit lines. What does that tell you? Does that mean anything to you? What did you do when you were government, Mr. Javarra? Tell us to make a regular comparison. I will not respond any more, Mr President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u31	Because Mr. Kurublis is here, I'm not going in the order I told you. We're going in the normal order now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u32	Mr President, I beg your pardon, but we were second and we were fifth.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u33	I'm sorry, Mr. Constantinople, but I should normally have waited for Mr. Kurublis to come and we should be late to begin. I took the initiative to start down, but now that he's back, let's go in the order it was. Anyway, you were a third party anyway. Okay, instead of a third party, you'll be fourth. Fifteen minutes late. It is not the Bureau's responsibility for this. You realize that, but don't waste more time now. We move on to the second debate under number 1107/16-2-2018 on the first-round question by the Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese Republic of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: "A coastline isolation of the inhabitants of Agathonisios in the middle of winter". Mr. Kremastino, here you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u34	Mr President, everyone is accustomed to talking about the hundreds of fifty inhabitants - the heroes of Agathonissos - and when I say all, I mean journalists, the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, the Ministers, the MPs, etc. - but these heroes in practice prove to be abandoned, because the Mayor of Agathonissius comes and emits SOS, saying he's isolated. The only ship that connected him to the rest of Greece through Kos Island, as it is in the yard, has not been replaced. There's a small ship, which makes an effort twice a week, but because it's small and when it's over 5, it can't move, it really doesn't have any contact. So he asks that this man be given immediate measures so that this loss can be replaced by tomorrow. The second thing he asks is the subsidised speedboat that makes Agathonissius - Kos line and makes it once a week, make it at least two, because the operating mechanisms of the state are in Kos. In Agathonisi, in terms of mechanisms, there is nothing. So these people have to be in touch. Therefore, asking for immediate measures at the moment is not a matter of micro-political but of essential importance, because I must say that Agathonisi, a rock indeed, became an island because of Andreas Papandreou wrongly lies before there was nothing. There was no port, it became a port. There was no light, the light went. Before the mobile phone came, there wasn't the classic phone. They've been put on phones. It became the design of the helical, became the roads - the moment there was nothing - the water supply of the island became the HYTA. And now these people are living under the regime of abolishing the dutyfree islands of less than three thousand inhabitants and with the VAT on the islands, as you know, Minister. In other words, Agathonisi is not excluded. Consequently, the deadlock is great. The question is what these people should do. Get up and get out of here and get someone else to stay on this island? So I would ask you very much now to say that, firstly, the ship subsidised will have at least two contacts instead of one that exists now. The second is another ship to make the route on this line, until the KALUMNOS returns. The third is this: it is not enough to tell the people that the ministers are dressing ghosts and going to the island and they are called 'Here we are'. In fact, they should be there, because every day they see Turkish planes crossing above them, and they have no contact with Greece. So this is not a simple thing, Mr President. Of course, you will tell me that Mr Kourublis is not on his own, but it is a matter of government, and we need to take measures immediately here and now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u35	With a little comfort and you, Mr. Kurubli, have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u36	Good morning, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The topical and urgent procedure has always been of substantial interest, because on the one hand, Mr President, a colleague's anxieties are being tabled and, on the other hand, the government is asked to explain, commit and give solutions. Mr President, I recently visited this region and even more southerly, Kastelorizo, the island of Ros, the island of Stronglis and the island of Symi. I would like to convey to the Greek Parliament, Mr President, that the inhabitants of the region not only maintain their hospitality and love for their homeland, but they expect that all this social and political stability in Greece will give much greater emphasis next year in terms of the presence of visitors and tourists, which will stimulate the economy of these islands. Mr President, my colleague, Mr Cremastinos, rightly tables his agony, not only as a Member of the region, but also as a politician who disguises the anguish of the Aegean. I would therefore like to tell him and to tell everyone here in Parliament that since I was Minister for the Interior, I have understood the dimension of the problems of the small islands in particular. We have thirty-seven islands in the homeland, mainly in the Aegean Sea, which are under five thousand inhabitants. It's even harder for these islands. We have therefore launched a very serious programme for upgrading maritime transport. I must tell you honestly that the work we have done has been recognised by all the institutional actors of the Aegean and the region and local authorities, because it aims to make the most of the resources available to the Greek state to really deal with these issues and to limit the sense of exclusion. You have to confess and recognize that we have very important improvements, because, you know, the money more than the so-called bourgeois lines, because it was designed like this, I can say that they serve the inhabitants of the islands and not the operators on the coast. So, in this particular case, it was different, Mr Kremastine, and you know it. There were far fewer routes to Agathonisi. Over the past three years, the coastline has improved strongly. The problem has arisen recently, which you quite rightly point out. Because after two years the particular ferry that could go and in more difficult weather to approach the island could not continue because it had to go to a repair process, certification of all the procedures that could enable it to be a reliable ship. You know very well that the procedures in these matters last two and three months. In this mid-term that has elapsed - because from the beginning of February the ship began to be in a process of checks and certification and repairs - we tried to meet the needs without - because I want to be honest - to have substituted for what it left, to the extent that it had the potential for what it left. You know, these procedures aren't that simple. However, we have speeded up the procedures of the boat's stay in repair and certification. I pledge, Mr Cremastine, that by the end of February, while in other cases this story may last for two and three months, it will have been fully restored.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u37	Mr. Kremastein, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u38	I come back with the same reasoning. I want you to tell us if the speedboat that goes once will go two. And of course, as soon as possible to restore the 'CALMONOS'. That's right. But the speedboat goes two. And if we can make a better service, even better. However, what I said to you does not make up for what I said the first time, namely that these people were tax-free to stay there and at the moment they are being abolished. Is it abolished? Repealed. Now they have the VAT, which they have as an incentive. How much will that state lose from the VAT of Agathonissius and some others like Agathonissos, to be excluded? I'm not talking about the big islands. I'm not talking about Mykonos and the other big islands, I'm talking about Agathonisi. How much will the state lose? In other words, love and protection are not just in words, it must also be taken into action. So VAT, tax and transport are three elements that are vital to these small islands in order to keep their residents, Mr Kurublis and Mr Haritsis from the Ministry of Finance, who sit next door, to stay there, must have such incentives. If he has no motive, why should he stay in Agathonisi? Who else will come to stay in Agathonisi? The ones next door, you understand that. So, it's not enough to say that you know, I saw on the tour that they're happy in Symi and Kastelorizo. I don't question that. But I say what needs to be done tomorrow. And this tomorrow I want you to say: 'Yes, it will be done'. That's the point of my question. And my agony, being in Athens, is not so great to say that I am struggling more than you, but it is the agony of the mayor of Agathonissios who makes these statements. I carry the anxiety of him, not mine and yours, which are understandable. These people are suffering. So say now that the speedboat will go twice instead of once, which is the first one, that it will be restored - as you said - on 1 March, the line, which is respected, make an exception for VAT, which can certainly be done, because it is a hundred and fifty inhabitants and taxfree. For Christ's sake! How much longer will the state get from Agathonisi? These are the issues that need to be answered. Because sensitivity, Mr President, is not expressed by words, it is expressed by actions. The answer here is 'practices'. And we really ask the Minister for these four points - you have the right to comment on them - whether or not he will comment on them, because that is the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, the Standing Committee on Morphic Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: 'Institute of the University of Western Attica and other provisions'. I also have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, since they have previously participated in the educational program "Workery Democracy" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-one students and students and two of their teachers from the 11th Glyfada Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u40	Mr President, if there are disagreements and different approaches in our political life, I believe that the Aegean is an area that unites us all. There we place our love and patriotism and our feelings. And I think we all want it to be done as best as possible. And I must say, Mr Cremastine - and you know - that for the disaster that has occurred - from the difficult meteorological conditions that have arisen - Symi, the mayor himself told me the day before yesterday that even the foreigners who live on the island, said that for the first time they saw such a reluctant reaction to the state mechanism. It is precisely because we want to be close to these people, who in particular on the smaller islands do not just live, are not trying to live, serve, and some other values. And I think we all have a common place in this. I would therefore like to commit and tell you that, as far as the speedboat is concerned, we will have an effort, now that I come down to the Ministry, to see until the end of the month that the new ferry will return, to be able to improve its connection, once again, with the island. As far as I am concerned now, what I have said is a commitment. We're doing the impossible - and we're gonna do it - for there to be a restoration. And I'm committed to that. On the subject of VAT: Mr Colleague, you know that it is not a simple matter. The country, unfortunately, is under specific commitments. And you'll be wrong if you say the government didn't want it or that he didn't care. Whatever government he was, he would have done what he had to do and where we all have to do. I therefore hope that the country will come out of these commitments in August. And we will have some scope for the moves we have to make in such very critical and absolute priority issues. I also want to tell you that we have already started the debate with the Aegean University to see how it could change the framework of the so-called transport equivalent. Because we and the European Commission - and this is the first time, Mr Kremastine, and you know - went and organised things in this way: we went to the Valletta Summit, where the Inter-Governmental Committee unanimously agreed on Greece's proposals and incorporated in the Valletta Declarations the need for a serious policy in the field of islands. I have already sent a letter to the French Minister for the Regions to take a relevant initiative. We have activated all our MEPs on these issues and we are trying to force the European Commission to bring about this famous plan of territorial cohesion, which Europe is talking about, to obtain substantial content. If Europe wants to say that all its citizens are equal, it must see its island citizens throughout Europe. We've done an excellent job. We have triggered the twenty-three regional authorities of Europe's purely island regions. We have activated the ministers of the eleven countries where these regions belong. Because at last the European Commission...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u41	Minister, please close. We will not now analyse European policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u42	I'm closing, Mr. President. The European Commission cannot stay in the declarations. We must call for the next financial programme to have a specific programme for islands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u43	Next is the seventh question, number 993/6-2-2018, on the second question of the Attica MP of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Athanasios (Nashus) Athanasios, to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: “Tours of decommissioned ships and shipwrecks in the Eleusinos port area”. Mr. Athanasios, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I have nothing new to say. And this is not pleasant for someone who has been a journalist for decades. A city prepares for a cultural capital of Europe. It's Elefsina. That's the question. The area of the port of Elefsina has been converted for many years into a shipwreck cemetery and an anchorage of decommissioned, seized and other dangerous vessels. Result? The risk of maritime safety, the deterioration of the marine environment and public health. The information is valid and comes from your ministry. In your honor, because others hide the problems under the carpet: the decommissioned ships amount to thirty-one, the dangerous or harmful in fourteen, the shipwrecks are verified in thirty-one, please. For the twenty-seven decisions have been adopted to lift, remove or neutralise under the 2001 Act. About the premises of the Elefsina Port Authority, sites requested by Elefsina, in view of its proclamation as the European Capital of Culture, are being asked about their timely tradition, so that they can be valued at the time the city operates as the European Capital of Culture. In short, how do you plan to manage the decommissioned, dangerous, seized vessels as well as those that have chartered in Elefsina's maritime area? Is there money for a lifting program? Is there a timetable for action? What are your understandings on the sites of the Port Authority of Elefsina, these areas specifically requested by the Municipality of Elefsina, as part of the preparation of the city as a European Capital of Culture?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u45	Here you go, Minister. On this matter alone.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u46	Mr Colleague, I must again acknowledge that the question is extremely targeted. Mr President, if someone takes a walk in this wider area, they really are at risk of depression. It sees for decades ships decommissioned, ships abandoned, so-called 'hazardous', ships miraviated, ships chartered in the Gulf of Elefsina and, of course, in the wider region of Perama and Piraeus. I must also tell you, Mr President, that the culmination of this whole story is that there are three wrecks in the Gulf of Elefsina, one on each other and, indeed, the other has lost life. There is a ship that must leave as soon as possible and for ten years is on the coast of the Gulf of Elefsina, extremely dangerous by the materials it has on it. There has been a ship, wrecked on the coast of Elefsina, loaded cement forty years. Anyone who wanted to do so, Mr President, who did not have what to do in order to pay care, abandoned it. Mr President, we have also noticed this: to transfer ships to people who had died some time later. Unfortunately, so far nothing has been taken, but no care has been taken. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have proceeded with the registration. Because I do not hide from you that these ships are abandoned at night - and I say it publicly - they play other roles. They are also used for other roles. I have therefore given a mandate to the Port Authoritys of Piraeus and Elefsina, not only to make registrations, not to increase guarding, but also to check, to see whether there are minerals that have to leave ships. I have instructed the Elefsina Port Authority to notify, Mr President, the fees it has to pay for all these ships which were accumulated in an amount of 14 million, without ever being sent to those responsible. So such a process began to be sought by those responsible. Mr President, the legislation has too many gaps. How's the confiscation? What time? As far as I am concerned, all of these interventions were left to unclaimed. We are therefore determined to change this image, namely the dangerous ones, to remove them as quickly as possible, to carry them to the anchorages, where there is a guard but, as well, to those which are arrows that are left there again so that they do not pay guard and, of course, the shipwrecks themselves. We will bring a legal order to the House - I think we will all agree - to resolve procedural issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u47	You will speak in your dentistry on the order.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u48	All right, Mr. President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how the House organises and operates, thirty students and students and two educational attendants from the 2nd General High School of Thessaloniki. The House welcomes them. Mr. Athanasios, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u50	This is a dangerous issue, but it is not impressive, Minister, and you know that much better than I do. Where is the danger, Mr President? When we have an oil spill on the surface, because it impresses, because it is photographed, because it is recorded, we are projected and everyone protests and has the opportunity, if not genuine environmental worshipers, to represent the enthusiast of the environment. On some of these ships there are oil means, i.e. they are environmental mines. If it breaks - to say that - this ship, that oil was diffused into the sea. For decades now, although Law 2881/2001 has been created, nothing has been done. In this respect, Mr Kurublis deserves our praise. While nothing has happened since 2001 for dozens of dangerous, very dangerous ships, now goes something to do. We must also put pressure on all of us in this direction. I hope that the relevant funds will be found and allocated. On the premises, Mr Minister, which must be made available - and in accordance with the Prime Minister's declaration at the Western Attica Regional Conference in the Municipality of Thessaloniki - we need information on this. I also take the opportunity to say - since the President gives us more time - that we need to consider the request of many Elefsina residents for a maritime connection between Elefsina and Salamis. We are talking about Elefsina, a city that embraces not only the exhaust gases, but also the sea, the unparalleled antiquities, as well as the musicians of Ioannis Xenaki, the Municipality of Moutsi and Manos Hatzidakis. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u51	A large periodic exhibition, initiation, sacrifices and sacred secrets begins at the Museum of Acropolis, with findings from the Municipality of Elefsina. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. We are therefore going to move decisively on this issue of dangerous and abandoned ships, as well as on ships which have chartered in the Gulf of Elefsina and Piraeus. I believe that we will soon get rid of the area, for many and various reasons, not only of this image, but also of the substance of the situations created by these ships. As far as the countries are concerned, we have been moving on to a prototype - I would say - a procedure. The granting of land to municipalities where there are port zones and we allow towns that were excluded from the maritime front of their area to change their image and ability. In the Municipality of Alexandroupolis, we granted fifty five acres. In the municipality of Kavala we gave twenty-two acres. In the Municipality of Igoumenitsa, we granted two hundred fifty acres. In the Municipality of Patras, we granted two hundred fifty acres. We gave several acres to the Municipality of Piraeus, Perama and Salamis. We have now proceeded - to inform the honourable Member - after the Prime Minister's announcement, of the concession of sites requested by the Municipality of Aspropyrgos, the Municipality of Megarion and four sites that are very critical to ensure access to the Municipality of Elefsinos at sea. At the same time, the master plan of the port of Elefsina is being prepared to become the new port. Once the master plan has been completed, then they will be examined by the TIADED and the two other sites that have occasionally been requested by the Municipality of Elefsina. So, at the moment, Mr. Colleague, the GOI at the meeting of the shareholders of the agency gave the approval for all of what I said to you. This approval has already gone to the Port Agency and has been accepted. Today at a time, it is sent to the co-legislative ministries. The bureaucracy makes these matters difficult. But I promise that we will soon have the ministerial decision to be signed by the co-legislative ministers. I hope that by the end of March, in April, we will be done. These areas will be granted, so that they can be exploited by the three municipalities to which I have referred. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u53	We are moving on to the last two questions which will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development, Mr. Alexander Haritsis. First we will discuss the third with number 1104-16/2/2018 the second question of the Member of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odyssea Konstantinopoulos on the subject: "Incorporation of sewerage networks and waste water treatment projects Kontovasina, Levidi and Kallianio Arcadia". Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. I should also like to thank the Minister for coming to the House. This is not the case with the Minister for Economic Affairs, Mr President. My question on the subject of 'NATIONAL SAFALISTIC' - and I address to you, the Bureau - has been tabled in the last five months and, unfortunately, Mr Tsakalotos, the Minister for Economic Affairs, Mr Tsakalotos, is not coming to answer a topic - will you allow me to say it and forgive me, Minister - which seems to be leading to the process of the whole of the 'National SAFALISTIC' process. There are complaints now that the government has chosen the buyer before he finds out and finds out if there is money. Unfortunately, the government does not come to the House to answer. Something has to be done. It's five months, Minister. It's not a month or two.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u55	Let me give you a tip. I'm zeroing you the time of one minute, so you can come in later on to the question. As far as I've been informed by the Services, it's on Monday's schedule. But I can't tell you it's going to happen. But don't waste any more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u56	For five months. Mr President, at 19: 50 today I will take a phone call. It's the permanent time the Ministry communicates. Minister, thank you for coming. We had discussed this question on 20 March 2017. Despite our disagreements, as you said, your intention was to carry out these three projects, namely, the Kalliani, Kontowazana and Levidi Arcadia sewage networks within this programme period. In fact, you said that we would find the way from either the "COMPANY", the Sectoral Development Plan, either from the Regional Programme or from national resources to implement these three projects. I want to ask you now, a year later, we are in February 2018, if any of this has gone ahead and where the process is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr. Constantinople. Mr. Haritsis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. You'll allow me to start with the general so I can come to the specialist. We are talking about a large group of projects, the sewage projects, where we are indeed dealing with very important loose ends throughout the country. They are hundreds of unsolved projects and should have been implemented not yesterday, not last year, but decades ago. I think that's what we all agree on. We are trying to find solutions to the very great needs that have arisen. Very recently, about ten days ago, at a press conference with the co-rapporteurs, Mr Skourletis and Mr Famelos, we presented the overall design that exists to address the problem of the implementation of waste water projects throughout the country. This plan includes, for the first time, a total financing of EUR 916 million. This money also includes 200 million, which, from the revision clause of the ESRB, we have given exclusively for these projects, for waste water. We are therefore talking about very important funding, which will, however, cover a very important category of projects. This is linked to this particular question, and that is why I mention, the class III settlements. We are talking about the settlements between two and fifteen thousand inhabitants. This is the overall financial planning for this category of projects. In the current programming period, therefore, all category C projects will be implemented on the basis of this plan. But I now come to this. Here we are - and you, since you are from the region and have work in a long time, you know it very well - in a particular case. What's the special case? We should explain it publicly so that everyone knows it. The fact that we have three essential projects grouped together, grouped together into one, but that are unlike one another. We have the Levidi, which is indeed Category III and could proceed with this funding that I referred to before. But we have two other projects, which do not belong to this category. So the process that took place to join the NRP of this project cannot proceed, precisely because the two of the three projects that are part of this overall project do not belong to the category that is eligible under the European Union regulation in the current programming period. So to be able to deal with this problem, because it is a problem that we are facing in other similar projects throughout Greece, we have proceeded, beyond the funding of the NRP and the resources to which I referred before, in the creation of a new financing instrument, which we announced a short time ago. Today I have the opportunity for the first time here at the National Representation and on the occasion of your question, Mr Constantinople, to announce that last night we proceeded with the signing of the relevant joint ministerial decision. What is this financial instrument? It is precisely such infrastructure projects, the lending of the municipalities by the European Investment Bank, following proposals which we will collect and the repayment of this loan by the national part of the Public Investment Programme. So the municipalities, the beneficiaries of these projects, are not at all affected by this programme. So I would like to ask the relevant municipality in this case, on the occasion of the question. We will have the opportunity in the next few days at the regional conference that we are organizing in Tripoli, in the capital of Arcadia, which we will meet with the mayors, to discuss it closely. Next week will the invitation of this new financial instrument, the new programme, which, in fact, I would say here, is that, because it is not the NRP and does not include all the regulatory procedures and obstacles of the NRP, will run very quickly. We therefore call on the municipalities to submit a proposal for this, I agree - very important work, which needs to be done. So to answer and directly to the question, as you have raised it, yes, we have found the way through this new tool to fund this very important project for the region.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u59	MEP, Mr. Ioannis Pakisotakis, seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad from 22 February 2018 until 26 February 2018. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u60	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr President. I am pleased, Minister, because, firstly, as far as the Levidi is concerned, it is in the third category it exists. I'm going to go to the municipality, and you're going to say that, because you're not just coming to the capital of Arcadia, you're coming to the capital of the Peloponnese, Mr. Haritsi. Where is Arcadia and Tripoli is the capital - as you know, very well - of the Peloponnese. And I don't think you're gonna have a problem with that. So we welcome you and tell you to have fun in Tripoli and the Peloponnese.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u62	All right, cut something, Mr. Constantinople.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u63	Let us not forget, because you know how to create allegiances from other prefectures, Mr President. I would like to say this: it is very important that you create a new financial instrument. As far as I understand it is, it has nothing to do with the NRP to have regulatory issues. I think it is something that, you know better, right now, why you manage it. So what we need to ask immediately, and I will do it by letter to the municipalities - and I will inform them of all the municipalities in Arcadia and hope they will - is that they submit this procedure next week, as you said, next week. Indeed, I thank you and hope that this will be implemented soon.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u64	I think you have little to say, Minister, because you have said everything, but you have the floor. Mr Alexandros Haritsis, Deputy Minister of Economy and Development, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u65	I should already like to inform you, Mr Constantinople, that through the cooperation that we have developed with the local authorities in this case and with the CEDEFOP and the Deposit and Loan Fund we have informed the municipalities about this new programme as a whole. Of course, it would be very useful for you, too, to inform the municipality of this new financial facility in the next few days and for this particular case of this very important project, so that we can proceed very quickly with its integration into the new financial instrument and its implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u66	We continue with the first with number 2431/9-1-2018 question of the circle of petitions and questions by MP Dramas of Nea Demetrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Economy and Development on the subject: "Application of the work to improve the ski resort of Fallar in Drama Prefecture". Mr. Kyriazidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I would like to express my satisfaction at your presence, because it is not a normal phenomenon, and I will be allowed to say, as other colleagues have said. It's something you're sad about. On the occasion of your presence, however, I would like to convey to you the anxiety and concern of the local society I am serving on an issue that is agitating us, afflicting us, creating frictions, creating conflicts at local level, and that is why I would ask you to have a creative debate and a positive result, as I would like to believe. The Fallar ski resort is an important tourist attraction for the Prefecture of Drama, as well as its exceptional alpine beauty, remains one of the largest ski resorts in the country. In this context and with a view to upgrading the ski resort, it should be noted that by means of coordinated actions, during my 2012-2014 government mandate, important initiatives were taken in order to obtain appropriate permits, operating signals, etc., and in particular to improve existing infrastructures. Indeed, for a long time, regional approval of the project is expected, as you have suggested, to improve the operation of the EUR 1.6 million ski resort for which there is unfortunately no information. Since August, of course, this report has been submitted. In view of all this, Minister, I would like to ask whether this work to improve the Fallar ski resort has been approved and, if so, when this will be done. If not for why is this long delay? Secondly, given that a private person is granted to a certain extent the operation of the ski resort - because there were other issues in the past - to let us know if there is anything in this regard. The third thing I would like to ask you is this: at the level of central administration - I mean - what actions will you take to further strengthen and promote this important tourist destination, which is a life and economic survival lung of a place that is isolated and distant? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u68	The Balcony term, Mr. Kyriazides, is indeed beautiful. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Cryazides, thank you for your question. Of course, the aim is to make things clear and - as you have said - a creative debate rather than a game of impression, which I think offers nothing to anyone, and I am glad that the question puts a number of questions which need to be answered. I come to the first question, to speak specifically. In fact, the region was presented in August 2017 with the proposal to finance the project from national resources, i.e. from the national part of the Public Investment Programme. On the basis of this proposal, the competent services of our Ministry, the Department of Public Investment of the Ministry of Economy and Development, have asked the region to submit a detailed financial study - which is regulatoryly necessary to finance the project - which demonstrates the viability of this ski centre. In addition, information from the region was requested to substantiate that this project fulfils the conditions of the relevant State aid provisions. You know that state aid is a matter that concerns us very much. We are trying to make a financing effort to resolve this issue, so that we do not find it before us with the relevant services of the European Commission. The region has not yet submitted the relevant additional data. So we're waiting on their statement to move on. However, I should like to stress here, on this point, that it is not common practice - if you like - to finance the operating costs of an economic activity. The national resources of the Public Investment Programme are mainly financed by infrastructure projects and upgrading of fixed installations, but not by operating. In any case, however, it is a necessary condition - I repeat - to draw up and present this economic viability study. I think you will agree with me that, in the past few decades ago, the making available of money from the Public Investment Programme in a sense irrational, in a way that was not based on relevant studies and plans, hurt the national economy and these are mistakes that we should not repeat. Since the relevant documents and studies requested are therefore submitted, we will proceed to the financing of the project by the national part of the Public Investment Programme. In relation to your second question, you will allow me to say that the only person responsible for answering is the region, which has the contract with the private sector. So you must go there so that you can know the conditions of concession, but also whether the individual fulfils his contractual obligations, as you say in your question. While in relation to the third question, you know very well that we have developed a series of financial instruments to finance such projects in the Ministry of Economy. They are tools aimed at both private and self-government bodies. In the previous question we had the opportunity with the honourable Member to discuss such a tool. Two calls concerning existing and new tourist enterprises have been issued by the ESDP EMRP. A proposal could also be submitted by the managing body of the Fallar ski centre. These programmes have a total budget of EUR 210 million. In the next few years, the operation of the new Infrastructure Fund, which we have created with the European Investment Bank, is also beginning to finance the upgrading of local infrastructure and tourism. There will therefore also be the possibility of financing such projects and infrastructures, such as ski resorts. So there are the financial instruments, so that the project can be financed, as you say in your third question. It is now at the discretion of the region, but also of the individual who has managed to submit the relevant requests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u70	Mr. Cryazides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, you are right to stress this in relation to the regime that has been in existence for years with regard to the operation of the ski resort. You mentioned, apart from his request and his progress, that this study should go ahead so that this funding can be provided. I would like to ask you whether you have ensured this funding. So if there is, will there be a direct response, or will we wait a long time for that approval? Secondly, you have rightly said - and thank you for saying so - that there are more financial instruments to make use of them in terms of infrastructure and to strengthen the operation of the ski resort. Is that beyond what you're saying? So they will also be able to make use of the second programme - financial instrument and third? So, is there any possibility of strengthening the ski resort with these tools too, or will we remain with what is originally requested? And, of course, I expect your immediate response so that the center can function, since the weather and God have put his hand in strengthening from very snow, which will take us until May, although there has been a delay. So we're pressurized, we're pressurized. I would ask you, as I would ask the region, which will obviously monitor us, to proceed with these projects and to approve the study, but more so that it can finally be made available to form a reference point, which is specifically about the financial support of our country. Because we are suffering too much, but it is not now to mention it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u72	The Minister has the floor to answer further. Because he's almost answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u73	In addition, Mr President, I shall reply to the questions raised by Mr Kyriazidis. I am pleased to hear first of all that the tourist season is prolonging because of the weather. This is good for the region, which indeed has very great needs, which we need to discuss at some point more overall and not just for the region, which is of course very important.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u74	By the time you put your hand too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u75	Plus Athena and hand are done, of course. I agree with you on this. That is why you see that we are trying with all the possibilities that are available to meet the very great needs that are created. Now, to answer specifically the questions you raised in your dentistry, firstly, the answer is yes, in relation to the Public Investment Programme. The funding will therefore proceed immediately, once we receive the additional information requested, the sustainability studies to meet the needs that exist, as I described them in my prototype, in relation to the basic infrastructure of the ski resort that needs to be upgraded. As far as your second question is concerned, I have already answered the third question in detail, which was raised in your question. We're talking about further reinforcement. So the answer here is affirmative, in that these programmes could be exploited, as is the case with other facilities throughout the country, and from this ski centre, to upgrade and expand the infrastructure and activities of the centre. So there are these financial programmes - as you say in your question, and that is my answer - for further support, in addition to the funding that may arise from the Public Investment Programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Minister, and you, Mr Kryiazidis. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-23-S1-commons.u77	With the agreement of the House at 11.40 p.m. the sitting of the next Monday, February 26, 2018, at 10.30 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: (a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent debate and (b) legislative work, according to the agenda to be distributed.
