ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 27-9-2018 authorisation, the minutes of its meeting of Thursday, 27 September 2018, with regard to the vote on all draft laws: (a) ‘Incorporation into the Greek legislation of Council Directive 2015/637/EU of 20 April 2015 (OJ L 106/24.4.2015) and other provisions’, and (b) ‘Conclusion of a Donation Contract between the Joint Institution of ‘ALEXANDROS S.A.’, by Onassis of the Cardiff Center (O.K.) and the Greek State and other provisions.’]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY Question No 3/19-9-2018 by New Democracy MPs Georgiou Georgios Georgiontas, Konstantinos Tsiras, Anna - Michel Asmakopoulou, Eleftherios Aygeaki, Georgios Vagonas, Miltiades Varvitsiotis, Georgios Vlachos, Mavroudi (Maki) Vorides, Sophia Vultus, Spyridos - Adonidos Georgios Kyriazides, Theodos (Dotora) Bakoyani, Athanasios, Athanasios Karatopoulos, Simou (Simou) Kedicoglou, Olga Kefkatakis, Vasilios Kyriaki, Dimitrios Kyriazides, Theodos (Dor) Bakoyannis, Athanasios Panagiotopoulos, Ioannis Pakhiotakis, Miakotakis, Kiakostinos Kiakostis, Nikos Kiakostissiou, Nikos Kiakistannis Kiakossiou, Greece. There's no question! The first question has been raised, New Democracy MP Kilkis Georgios Georgios Georgios, for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Madam President. I should like to wish a little early for a good parliamentary term to all of us and the Minister of State for the good performance of her duties. Indeed, the topical question does not have a question at the end. It is essential, but it comes to specific questions, which the new Minister for Administrative Reconstruction hoped to answer, because in the previous period we had the unprecedented and paradoxical not to answer questions about the responsibilities of the Ministry in question on very serious issues, and we even had the phenomenon of being left in the drawer of the previous Minister for Administrative Reconstruction, which were sent by the ADP, to a question I had asked, and I was forced, finally, to ask myself, my question to the ADP itself, which I think is not the role of a Member. Minister, it is now virtually two and a half years since the resolution of No.4369/2016, a law on the maintenance of the public and other public service duties. This law, by the then Minister who testified it, Mr Vernardakis, appeared as an emblematic law brought by the present government, with a view to the complete collection of public administration. That was the favorite word and the claim of all speakers then of SYRIZA and ANEL. Two and a half years after the adoption of this law, we have tangible examples of how this distorter, in our view, has attempted to implement many points of law. Finally, the way in which he tried to implement it proved to be awkward and justified for us not to vote in favour of it. As I mentioned in my topical question, two are the levels at which it has been attempted - and to a certain extent it has been achieved - the full partisanisation of public administration. The first concerns the selection of the old Secretarys-General who have now been renamed to administrative and sectoral secretaries with their alternates. The first point is that it is sixty-nine people, and we all know very well that in older governments this number has never exceeded the number of forty secretaries. We're over that. You have a gradient towards creating new structures, because obviously the new structures also give the possibility of serving any of your purposes. In this law, which had distorted points from its establishment, as was the fact that the final choice to a colonized process - as you claimed - is finally made by the Minister himself, two points emerged that completely denounced the whole process. One is that the notices, which were made, were not made by a single authority, for example by the AACC, so that the criteria and the way in which the candidates were assessed are uniform, but every ministry, each Secretary-General, basically every ministry's Secretary-General made the notice for its own Ministry, setting out the characteristics and the necessary qualifications he judged. And, unfortunately, in many cases, what was found to be true is that these traits usually simulated to the minister himself in that post as Secretary-General, who had been placed earlier by SYRIZA. This, in fact, is not just a complaint on our part. On the basis of these reports, our own reports have finally been energized, and the institutions in the field of public administration, which, until then, we believe have shown a relative indifference to very serious issues, which have to do with the reform of the state and public administration, because the other political objectives at the other levels, budgetary issues. The question is that you were forced as Ministry twenty-two of these sixty-nine notices to reopen them after our complaints. This fact alone, namely that one out of three accepted and reopened, which we believe should almost all be reopened, proves exactly the law of our complaints. In fact, you did so in a way that was legally ill and I denounce it for the second time from the House, because we will find all this in front of us. There had to be a legislative initiative on the part of the Ministry to cancel the previous tender procedure, which had reached a certain point of maturity. Without any such initiative on the part of the government, we currently have a reopening of nineteen of the twenty-two positions. The other three don't know why they don't go back, or I probably know, but that's obviously going to be my subject of another question. The first fact, then, is the issue of these notices. However, what went beyond every limit of your intervention - the Government's intervention - I mean - the choice of these persons is the proven fact - on the basis of an official document from the AACC - that four ministers requested and received from the relevant AACC Committee copies of the documents of the candidates for the posts of the administrative and sectoral secretaries. This unheard of, this unprecedented has happened and no one has been moved to say and what these names are and what will be done with these ongoing processes. From where and until where did the dossiers actually come from with the figures of the candidates - private and public - were found at the offices of the Ministers? What is the reason, what is the feasibility, what is the legalisation of this action? What about the ongoing procedures? Why are these names not so far called? Madam Minister, today we want a reply that is clear from you. We know that your ministry, based on the response letters from the AACC, knows who these four ministers are. Both these ministers have done everything right and have shown an exaggerated zeal to have the image of all the candidates, so let us say their names, welcome them and reward them, or have done everything right, and then there is not only a public prosecutor's inquiry that we have asked for, but also an initiative on your part to cancel this credit, both administratively and institutionally. The development of this process has side effects which no one can imagine at the moment and, if not cancelled, it will be painful for those who have thought of it and for those who are involved in its implementation. Today is your chance - the previous Minister did not accept my invitation and I can understand why, if necessary, I will say it to a certain extent - you will separate your position from what other fellow ministers have done or the previous Minister. You are therefore entitled to mention the names of these four ministers. But that's not all we're asking. Then take care to regain any credibility that can now be recovered in this process, which, on the initiative of the Government, has reached this point and to cancel and repeat, reopen all procedures for these four ministries at least. This is your obligation, not only from your institutional role but also from all people, hundreds or thousands, as you will say, to participate in the tender, which shows a expectation from some that there will be a process that will be objective here. Ask you to know, do an investigation which is the level of credibility that this process now appears to have. You have an obligation on people, because there are also criminal offences which touch all those involved in this process. The personal data of each candidate, whether he is a civil servant or a private person, may not be without cause and without any legislative basis at the offices of the Ministers. I will also make a second reference to the second level of the question, concerning the coverage of vacant posts in the legal persons referred to in Article 8 of Law No.4369/2016. Colleagues, when this legislature was in place, the question was: 'Would you move on quickly? Do you really think it leads to a colonization?' The answer was: 'Yes, we will move on quickly because we believe it, because we do not intend to serve relatives and friends'. Two and a half years after the adoption of Law No.4369 in Article 8 to cover the administrative boards or presidents of legal persons governed by public or private law on a case-by-case basis has only been implemented in a notice and, in fact, a notice under way has not been completed. At least I found her. If the Minister has any other notices, he can tell us. The good news is that two months ago the government with an amendment effectively suspended the application of its own law, the flag law, and took it from 1-1-2019. Only posts vacant from 1-1-2019 will now be covered by this procedure. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, I'll be done in a minute. Minister, you have to give specific answers and I say that you have the opportunity to begin with complete credibility with regard to this House, to say exactly what has happened, to clarify the Government's attitude in relation to not only the major political but also legal and criminal issue that has arisen and to attempt to what extent you can, if you please, restore the credibility of this process, which we have denounced from the first moment, because it has left these margins in order to create the issues that have been created. Once again, however, the government surpassed itself, even what we expected to happen. No one could imagine the ministers would take the files to their offices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u3	Thank you. I'll call the next questions, and if they want to say if they're gonna take the time of dentistry as well. Now Mr Vorides has the floor, who has five minutes for protology and three minutes for denology. Do you want the time of your dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u4	I will look after my dentistry, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u5	All right, Mr. Voridis. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u6	Madam Minister, our main speaker has asked us the questions. I believe that the flagrant phrase that characterises the way your Government is institutionally politicising is 'we have taken the government but not the power'. This is the basic concept you have and this has been seen in a number of issues relating to the relationship between the Government and the entire institutional structure, with justice, with the independent authorities, with the press and now, of course, with the administration. It is a debate, if these positions we are discussing, namely the positions of the Secretary-General and the administrative councils of the legal entities of private law and public law - which are non-political positions - are positions in which the political selection criterion should not be mediated. But that's what you claimed. This discussion, in theory, has been closed for the government by the legislation it made in 2016. You said yes we want non-political positions, we believe that they are not political or ideological in nature, we believe that these general secretaries and these administrative boards simply perform whatever political choice the government has within the institutional framework. That's what you said. After you said that, now you have to explain to us what you are interested in, to the ministers, who is involved in the process? You said so. You don't really care. Whoever it is sufficient to keep the procedure. So you're giving us the names of the ministers? Because it's important to know each other. Four did. Not everyone did it that they went and took. There's a second point, I'll say it. There is an institutional topic for the SAEP. And that is important, because in fact, again through the pressure of the government, a body whose impartiality has been safeguarded in the process. But the ADP also gave the files as if they were not due. So there are two issues here, which also raise matters of political order and legality, if any, and other issues, such as personal data protection for those who are involved, and who are able to know about these data, only those who are involved in the selection process, so not the Minister. So that's the one thing. Let's go to the second issue. You should also give an explanation. Why does the Sports Secretary-General describe it as having two languages, one from a European Union country and one from a non-European Union country? Not that it's not good for him to know some languages, but why especially these, and why is it just him? Is that only a good thing for that particular Secretary of Sport? Would we not want it, for example, for the Secretary of State for Transport? For the Secretary of Tourism, wouldn't we want to? So the second question you need to explain is the criterion. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] These in the meantime - you will forgive me - are tricks, which are old cuts widely known. They do not only in the process of selecting staff, but, unfortunately, in technical notices and in a number of issues. In other words, you put on a photographic device, which seems to be a general and ultimately cannot be made more specific, especially if you have chosen that one person has this unique qualification, which is quite rare and completely impossible to have, or to have a five-year pre-service - we say now - as a lawyer especially in the field of public administration. Well, that's nice. I'm not saying no has. But I'm asking again. Why that secretary and not all of them? Does he alone have to have legal education, for example? And legal education means only a secretary in the public administration? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And the third - and I shall end, Madam President - which you must answer. I remember that here we had a disagreement with Mr Vernardakis. We had disagreement on the law, and we talked about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u7	No disagreement, no conflict.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u8	Conflict, okay. We didn't get in hands.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u9	Almost.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u10	We had a disagreement with Mr. Bernardakis. And we said to him: 'This law will not be implemented'. He said: 'What are you talking about?' Within six months. I remember that it was voted in February and had given an absolute deadline in September of the same year. Since that September, two full years have passed. Why have these famous announcements not yet been activated? I think, therefore, that these reveal the central design of your government, which is, in fact, that it does not believe in the law that it does, that it does not want to implement it, that it tries to implement the doctrine 'we do not have all the power, we want all the power and let us be in the government'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u11	Mr Constantine Karagkounis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Madam President. I'm gonna use dentistry as well. Before dealing with the question we have tabled, which, in any case, have already been analysed in detail, I would like to make a more general comment. What we are discussing today with the obvious interventions of the ministers in public administration and its functioning, I feel, is a general view of the government, which is what it actually expresses. It expresses its ideology. It is this outdated mentality, which hates all that a modern society does, a modern economy and, of course, a modern public administration, so that this country can finally go ahead. And what are these? Hard work, education as an end in itself, a sense of personal honesty without compromises. That is all, Minister, which for us in the New Democracy is the ideological coordinates. They produce what many people perceive and feel for our own party as householders. I will say this much more simply, ladies and gentlemen, as serious people. However, those who consider that control, evaluation and excellence, instead of improving their children, are allegedly suffering psychological and moral blows - because we have heard this from the government - 'first time left' - are the people who want a society with other values. And, unfortunately, Minister, that is the reality. A society that will go ahead not with hard work but with party links, not with knowledge and general education, but with the behaviour of a permanent pseudo-unionist and, of course, not with a sense of personal rigour and self-criticism, things that are necessary to get honesty, but with these pseudo-culture views which, unfortunately, we hear, ladies and gentlemen, we have rights but do not have obligations. In short, it is what has been criticised many times in the face of the Prime Minister - God forbid, as we have said many times - by Mr Karanika. For that is the truth, ladies and gentlemen - and that is what the act has proved, and that is what the good colleagues have been telling you all this time - that what you want? You want all over the public administration "Karanikas" with similar features, knowledge, pre-service and character. It's what we say you're more than you are. And what we are talking about in this general climate is part of it, ladies and gentlemen. In other words, what the government wants is a public administration with which Mr Karanikas, too, will feel solidarity, but, of course, all the party leaders, who have, unfortunately, been appointed over the last three and a half years. And why are we criticising you - to go to this one too - Mr Minister and gentlemen of the government? Because in support of what I said earlier, you follow exactly these pathogens and these practices of the 1980s. What have you done here? Did you celebratingly vote for the law to choose secretaries - supposedly in an inconsistent and worthy manner - and ultimately what are you doing? Just the opposite. You delayed the implementation of the law, and with your practices in fact, you altered him to serve, as I said before, your party friends. But here - George Georgios said so too - there are very serious issues that arise. I feel like it's politically inconvenience, not to mention anything else. We'll see later. Because you cannot declare that you want transparency and at the same time hide the fact that four ministers received documents from the AACC concerning candidates' data. Four Ministers! I have a feeling, Minister, that you must respond, because this is something very clear and specific. Indeed, they were situations with the names and full details of all candidates. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I said I'd use my dentistry as well. Mr. Vorides said so. The sensitive personal data, as you know, are surrounding the protection not only of domestic laws, but lately - in a very strict context - and of Community laws. The evidence that, instead of being under the protection of the institutional armour provided by the AACC, is, in the end, in drawers of Ministers. Because it is reasonable to have suspicions - we say it as a New Democracy - that evaluation can be altered but, of course, the final choice, once the Minister can have access to this information. Here, then, what you need to answer is how sensible and morally permissible it is that their current Secretary-General and their qualifications should be known when the other candidates are ignoring their own. Have you formed the conception, the feeling that the procedures have been transparently and meritably respected? In fact, you are doing what Mr Vorides said earlier. You're photographing the seats. If applicable, make the choices you want and then make them. He told you a great deal with the two examples of the Secretary-General. Either applicable to all or applicable on a case-by-case basis. Where appropriate, it is 'to enter ours'. That's the point. Where, then, was the AACC involved in calling for interest in the selection of administrative, sectoral and all these secretaries? Where is the Special Executive Selection Council - which is under the roof of the ADP - in the process of evaluating qualifications as provided for in the law? You have passed the law on the final executives since 2016. What vacancy have you covered under the conditions of the law? Are you constantly giving extensions and, in fact, what are you doing? You're just destroying the law and you never apply it, a law with many crowns you brought him to the House. In order to get to know and get to the point, such practices do not end up with logic, and we as government have said so tomorrow, and Mr Mitsotakis has said so, too, - party friends, 'Karanika' and we are not going to accept them. That's clear and you know it. And all I'm saying is they just come to ratify what I told you at the beginning. Actually, you're lovers of past pathogens, you're lovers of the '80s. You were supposed to bring the new one, the new one, and that is why the world voted for you, but, as I said before, you are the bad past, which, anyway, sooner or later - probably very soon, as things show you - you will be definitive and generally past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u13	Mr Kedicoglou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, our ancestors have said, and in three and a half years we have experienced the worst possible confirmation of the well-known term. Now your masks are dropping the election. Everyone knows what you are, what you are doing, what the spirit and style of your governance, what your commitment to the Constitution is, to the democratic ideals. It is no coincidence that the new sooner joke is 'the moral advantage of the Left'. But let's start with the basics. Democracy is based on the distinction and independence of its three institutional pillars - legislative, executive and judicial powers - and on the free functioning of the so-called 'fourth power', the media. Is it accidental that the first aim of the SYRIZA Government was to affect the independence of the other pillars of our democracy? Rather not, since for you the distinction of powers is detestable. It is for you that the authority is for you, and you must control it completely. Hence the famous lines of the press "we have taken the government, we have not yet taken the power". So you started with an unprecedented attack on the media that you didn't like. You tried to close newspapers, celebrated when you neutralized a television channel that bothered you and wanted to impose a flagrant anti-constitutional law on licences for television stations. Even for worthless pastures you went to sell licenses to your chosen ones. Fortunately there, Greek justice protected our democratic freedoms. Despite the procedural coups to promote your own in the leaderships of the supreme courts, despite the gebelic methods you have used to murder the character of judges who have established their stature, you have not managed to guide Greek justice. Of course, you do not easily put it down, as your outrageous attempt to freeze judicial investigation into the national tragedy in Matti has shown. An effort so outrageous that even your chosen ones were forced after the severe reactions to take back badly. Throughout this period, however, your plan for deportation of the state is in full progress, since the basic rule of your political "I believe" is that "government equals a state" and "state equals power". There is the answer to the question why you are fiercely exaggerating the world of production and work and why you are destroying the middle class. To fund an unprecedented cruisering invasion of your own people, overcoming the state, beyond all economic and developmental logic. Tens of new, useless structures were created. Even the Farm Movement Museum has been acquired. Minister, farmers need peasants, they don't need a museum unless you intend to put them there. Myriad contractors were hired by opaque procedures and permanent amendments to obvious unconstitutionality were introduced. All this at the cost of hundreds of millions of euros, when pensions are threatened with cutbacks for much less. With the state's overcrowding and outspring in full progress, what you are now concerned with is that you will retain control then, that is, since your big problem arises. And your big problem is another basic feature of our democracy: the elections and the changing of parties in the governance of the country. Your main concern, then, is how to drugize the course of the next government, which you now know very well that it will not be you. You do it in the field of the economy, leaving behind unbearable commitments, do it in national matters, making concessions unacceptable and attempting to operate the state with the complete partyisation of the public administration. You have already provided numerous written samples with the heads' placements at various public bodies. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll take the time of my dentistry, Madam President. I also have a personal example in Evia, where 15 people from the Port Agency were bypassed with a postgraduate degree and selected by someone who was - he says - postgraduate studies without a qualification. Big originality! Anyway. However, where you crossed every limit is the way in which the choice of administrative, sectoral and special secretaries has been initiated and implemented. It's a monument of political cynicism and immorality. You first passed a law in 2016 on the supposedly demolition of the Public Administration with the unequivocal and remarkable process, as you said, of selecting new secretaries for a four-year term. Then you have not applied the law for two years, on the one hand, to place anyone you want there with the corresponding pre-service modulation and, on the other, to charge the mandate of the new secretaries for the next government. And when you decided this year to apply the so-called arrogant law, there you showed your true face. And what you didn't do! Even the ASAP, an instrument whose decisions were respected by all Greeks, tried to humiliate you through the attempt to manipulate it. In addition, there is no objective moleculosis - what to do with the postgraduate, if you interview the best friend - and the posters were "photographics". Usually it was legislative selfies - it is a real originality - since the judge assessed was also a judge, the current secretary placed by SYRIZA, and of course the final choice is made by the Minister. In order for the Minister to have his head quietly, that there is no case of unwanted success, he asked and took the files from the ADP with the candidates' personal data, to fix everything in his chosen measure. It was illegal, and it was done! Ladies and gentlemen of the government, I understand that in your hearts. I understand your allergy to the principles and rules of our democracy, because you do not believe in it. I understand your need to overthrow the state against the private sector, because the ideal of your worldview is to become all state-owned. I can even understand this shameful attempt at the partyisation of the public administration, because you believe that one is the right party and has to be identified with the state. You know that I've lived in the Soviet Union, and all of this reminds me of some methods of bolsheviks, with people's competitors in every service. But remember, these methods were the reason for the collapse of the Soviet Union. Here it is Greece, we are in Europe and there will be no totalitarian power. On the substance of the matter, however, for the four Ministers, for example, who requested and received dossiers from the AACC, I fear that we will still not get answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u15	Mr. Harakopoulos has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the populist left-wing and right-wing prosecuting government's SYRIZA - ANEL now runs quickly towards its westwards, of course, to a great grief of the government's majority, which loved the chairs of power just as much as any one has in the past. Shared by this, the irritation of government partners, which now leads them to hot decisions, such as the persecution of journalists who were detained by the Minister of National Defence. Why? Because they dared to talk about the scandalous management of the immigration that OLAF is now investigating and that is humiliating the country internationally. And this by the government of sensitive rights defenders, those who blamed the Samara government as far-right because of the Amygdale, and today they set up Moria's indulgence, despite the hundreds of millions of euros that the country has received from European funds in structures which have made infinitely weaker. Perhaps many of them previously were on the sidewalks, protesting against the memorials and capitalism, as well as the well-known activist of "I don't pay the toll" appointed at the Prime Minister's finance office. On SYRIZA - oh of the miracle! - everyone who made toll mobilizations, parades and auctions disappeared by magic. Ladies and gentlemen of the government majority, with your status quo in the ERT, the persecution of journalists, interventions in justice, you are like to follow Orban practices that you otherwise spend. You won the power by lying with the scoop, that you supposedly brought the new to politics, by disclosing that SYRIZA had joined massively former members of the deep PASOK, some of which are also in ministerial positions. What you sought from the outset was the creation of a party state. A prerequisite for this was for the words 'assessment' and'responsibility' to be put under persecution. Institutions and laws were humiliated by the ultimate purpose. You have praised as much as anyone else the word 'the purpose is holy for the means'. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will also use my dentistry, Madam President. What happened with the non-implementation of Law4369/2016 for the National Executive Office of the State characterise your entire administration. The famous phrase mentioned "we have taken the government, but not the power" has made you obsessed. That is why four ministers have intervened in the ASAP and the Public Administration Secretaries, because the major is party identity, and that is why you wish to gigate another state, to appoint people, as you have done with the armies of the poster, with "Caranish" of all types, without qualifications, without experience, sometimes and without object. A small taste of this was recently taken in the reshaped remodeling with the convoys employed by the ministers who were carcased. The appointments, however, do not stop the posters. They extend to the public itself, with the well-known Fabrika of the contractors. According to official census figures this year, contractors for the first time exceeded a hundred thousand. From eighty - two hundred - seventy - eight in May 2015, they reached the hundreds of three thousand - four in May 2018. In other words, we have an increase of almost twenty - three thousand new contractors, to whom, of course, you are closing the eye of permanentization by keeping them in hostage. However, at the same time, ladies and gentlemen, young children with qualifications take the path of hostility and migration. Because here your Government has chosen to "strengthen" the private sector, entrepreneurship, every productive group with taxes on taxes, to maintain its voters, to share rehabilitation promises, of course, to the detriment of its place, present and future. We were therefore not surprised by the news that Greece, in economic freedom, is in the eighth place in the world together with the Kingdom of Swaziland. Fortunately the drama is coming to an end soon. This government will remain a bad memory. Greece will soon change a page with New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u17	Last of these questions is Mr. Vlacho. Mr. Vlao, will you speak from your position?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u18	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u19	Will you use your dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u20	I think so.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u21	Good, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, then you were neither in the coalition nor in the SYRIZA, but SYRIZA at the time when he had the small percentages in the past and whose political intervention was not particularly important, had the opportunity to speculate, proclaim everything, what was right, and what was right was his, he adopted it, what was right, what was perfect, what was hopeful, there and what was not his! So, slowly this myth was created that what's good is left as well. In this attitude, therefore, things changed and came to rule. And when it's time for him to prove what he was saying in the past, of course, he's bringing a law again theories and delays. But when the time comes for the act, that is where the problems begin. That's where the endless inconsistency begins. We're starting to see how you've meant all this in the past now that it's about to happen. So you come to define the famous administrative and sectoral secretaries for a four-year term. Sounds good as a prediction. But what does it mean for a four-year term? It means that we will choose non-political persons of wider acceptance, over-party, if you like. Because these persons should be able to serve and one or other governments, possibly different policies. So they can't have party blindfolds. That's what theory says again. It's time for the competition. And then you start making the so-called photographic contests. How do you do that? Isolate every nomination, every secretary. If you want to make them all together, you'd go to the ADP to publish sixty-nine positions. You didn't do that. You went per secretary, per ministry. And after you've photographed the qualifications of your chosen candidate, your own, who had in mind, the nominations are filed and, to make sure you're not mistaken, go and ask for the files, first, I think, from what is written, your former colleague at the Ministry, Ms. Gerovasili. But you'll tell us about the rest of the names. What right are you going to A.S.A. and asking for the files? Where does it turn out that you have that right? Can you explain it to us? Why do you deceive S.H.I.E.L.D.? We're all trying to upgrade it, support it. And you go to one night and you humiliate it. Why are you doing this? To serve the state machine with your party friends? You will say "May, after the files had been filed. The notices were known." Yeah. I'll tell you the rest of the secret. You went, knowing the qualifications of the rest. You could've moved, depending on the famous interview. Not just. This is a matter that we will see in time. You know who the candidates are and what their qualifications are, what they are invoking. So you actually tried on one night to mutate your party friends, the party choices you were entitled to place in the Ministries as secretaries, as sectoral and administrative secretaries with a four-year term, because that is how you decided. That, Minister, cannot be the new one. I would remind you of something, of course, said by my fellow Members, that twenty-two files were taken back. If you were sensitive, you should think about taking the whole project all along. Because the mistake wasn't only made at twenty-two. Apparently that's where the big scandals were detected. But, in any case, you understand that the rest, after being done under the same procedure, is problematic. So that can't be the new one. Do you want to call it a spoon? Let's say it. You want to call it smart? Let's say it. But it cannot be the new one that you insist so far that you claim to be serviceable. I'll close by reminding you of a phrase you like on the left. You used to call her I remember from the amphitheaters. "Where are you young enough to say that I would become someone else." Eventually you couldn't be others. Here reminds me of an old politician from Mr. Chiara's area who said to a new politician: 'When did you catch up, though, and have you ruined so much'? When did you get up and bring them down? When did you catch up and overthrow all these theories? So much love for authority? Are you so fond of her? Today, on this occasion, which is given you, in fact, and as a government and you personally, do you feel the need to answer the specific questions that we are talking about and not to generalise your answer so that if you answer all of us, but above all the citizens, are able to make comparisons? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u23	Thank you. Mr. Panayotopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u24	I would also like to use my dentistry, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u25	I'll give you eight minutes. Okay?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this government has an appeal to anecdotes. A joke we experienced was the tough negotiation of Tsipras - Varoufakis and this led to the additional fourth memorandum and this informal one, which we are experiencing today, but also to the account of 100 billion to the Greek people. Another joke was "decentness" and it led to the conscious poverty of the middle class, but also to another parameter, the shame of Moria, which we also live, the whole world lives and points out today. Another joke was the diplomatic success of the Kotzia Negotiation and this led to the nationally harmful Ambassadors' agreement, which is evolving, without any initiative now being taken by the Greek Government. Another was the "turn" on the shift of the District Attica, which led to a hundred dead in the tragedy in Matti. However, a leading joke of the life and state of this government was the agreement to dismantle the public administration, which first entered the paper, during the preliminary agreement of February 21, 2015, between the Prime Minister and the lenders, who then believed in the new, indestructible and moral, who came to the Greek political scene for the first time before the reality finally emerged. I recall that the first law passed by the SYRIZA Government in March 2015 was entitled “Measures to deal with the humanitarian crisis”. However, the thirty-four - if I am not deceived - of the forty-two articles of this law had to do with the introduction of new posts and bodies in the public administration, particularly those of the Deputy Secretary-General, who would help the Secretary-General of the Ministries, new posts, new possibilities for appointment of political friends. We had legislative initiatives, which provided for the creation of bodies, bodies and committees, in order to enable them to be served with friends of the government. We had photographic notices, where many times their main feature was the depreciation of professional experience. It didn't count that much for you to have worked somewhere in order to claim a post as a public body. We've had diabetic contests, interventions in the proceedings, it's supposed to be. They were interventions involving not only policies but, in some cases, criminal responsibilities. In general, we have had a continuous and systematic effort to reduce public administration. Recently the European Commission has recognised the need to reopen twenty-two secretarial posts. The question we ask you, among other things, is whether you have done so, if you have reopened the post of Secretary-General, for which the Europeans themselves and the committee have decided that the competition and the entire competitive process has been a diabetic and has therefore had to change. One of the major issues, however, in the selection process is that of the selection of administrative and sectoral secretaries. On August 7, we came to the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay in order to file a complaint against everyone in charge and asked that the case of illegal transmission be investigated to at least four Ministers of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL of the names, elements and qualifications of the candidates, as the procedure was under way. We were dealing with a point in time when no-one had legalized - particularly Minister - and had no right to know about the relevant information, and so there could be unfair interference with the work of the committee. We thought that the sending of the figures of all the candidates' files to the ministers had made the one-way procedure, on its cancellation, and we are asking for it to be cancelled, given that the imprecise one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-many. We are currently raising all these questions to you. And we ask you: Why have you been silent for five months and not reveal the names of the four ministers who have asked and received from the AACC the information from the files of the candidates for administrative and sectoral secretaries? Why do you not give adequate explanations of a process that has been turned into a completely diabetic and lame process? You need to give answers. Do not forget that a lawsuit has been filed and therefore, possibly a public prosecutor now conducting proper investigation in order to find criminal responsibilities to natural persons. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, you have been taking up your duties for some time, and we hope that despite the general rule of the continuity of the government, you will operate somewhat differently from your predecessors. Give answers to these questions. Unfortunately, you also have a response to this extremely problematic process, which only refers to the decoupling of the public administration, instead of referring to a systematic effort to suppress it. You have to give answers. Look. The Prime Minister once said that in order to build he must first break down. We very much fear that for four years you have been systematically spoiling and you are not building at all and, unfortunately, a next government will come, which will take on the very difficult task within a completely narcotic field to build through the ruins you have left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u27	Now on behalf of the government, the Minister for Administrative Reconstruction will take the floor, Mr Xinoyannakopoulos. You have twenty minutes for your protology and then ten minutes and five minutes. Will you be using all year round, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u28	I will look after you, Madam President. I'll see how the first talk goes, and I'll come back.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u29	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u30	Thank you very much. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by expressing my pleasure today at the Step of the House to answer the current question of the Members of the New Democracy. And I'm happy for two reasons. The first is because I really believe in parliamentary control and constructive cooperation between the Government and the Ministers with Parliament. Although I am a few weeks in this position, I have come really constructively, because I believe that we will build such a relationship and prove it in the future. I am also pleased, however, for a second reason, because you are giving me the opportunity to address and clarify some issues relating to the crucial issues of public administration and the choice of executives, which is at the heart of an overall and collective effort at this new period that our country has now entered and to the implementation of a necessary plan for institutional, productive and social reconstruction. Because public administration is self-evident - and here I think we will all agree - that it is at the heart of this effort, and of course it is the crucial factor in the functioning of the institutions of democracy, development and the social state. I think it is no accident - and I will make two, three general remarks - that the Prime Minister too a few weeks ago at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition, when he presented the major priorities and the framework in this new era after the memoranda that our country has returned, referred to the public administration and the commitment that we have as a government in order to complete all the procedures that have begun for the necessary administrative reconstruction and the related reforms that are under way. You know very well that public administration during the Memorandum has suffered a total depreciation. And that's not just in our country. The prevalence of an extremist neoliberal concept, which had already started in the 1990s with globalisation, came to a total depreciation of state functions. And I must tell you, because I have worked for many years in the European administration, the same process of depreciation experienced the same period, and the European administration and a general effort to curtail the state, to privatise the public services, and also to attempt a level playing field for public officials and civil servants. This in no way means that there were no pathogens and problems. There are problems which need to be tackled, and that is a constant effort. We must not even level out any period, because large areas have been done throughout this period. In other words, IASP, which is a great guarantee, and we all now admit it and respect its independence, the issues of decentralisation and government, the issues of the JEP, the issues of 'DIAFANISATION' and 'HUMANY', are issues on which we come at every time to build. So levelling doesn't help. On the contrary, I think that now that we are turning a page and moving forward, we need to make public administration really and effectively and efficiently and independently and can really be the driving lever in this new effort to rebuild our country. And because I have heard criticism of how our institutions and our partners face the efforts being made, I would say that we should not have a card approach. Negotiations and relations with partners and institutions have been very difficult in previous years. Here I would like to point out that my predecessor, Mrs Gerovas, at a very difficult time, has done a very important job, and indeed, with a lot of labour and a consequence and has succeeded in achieving a number of things that we are today called upon to complete and give a follow-up. To close, therefore, the general remarks - let me make this abuse, but since this is the first time I have been addressing Parliament - to say that at this time we are setting three major priorities in the field of administrative reconstruction: The first is exactly what I mentioned earlier, the completion of the effort of administrative reconstruction and the major reforms that have begun to strengthen the public sector and its functioning. The second major priority is that the public administration should be able to participate in this collective and overall effort of our country's reconstruction plan, by strengthening it, by training officials and by renewing it, through targeted recruitments - and of course, within the framework of the financial framework and the specific needs that we currently have in the period we are experiencing. And the third major priority is the continuous effort to improve the quality and digital upgrading of the public administration and its operation, which is primarily for the service of the citizen, but also, of course, for the real economy, entrepreneurship and the social state. When the government took over after the 2015 elections, it had to move immediately and moved in two directions: The first - and this was the legislation that passed in 2015 - was to be able to deal with and restore the major injustices and problems found by the governance of the New Democracy when the change took place in 2015. I am thinking here here of the law that the government has brought about at that time on the abolition of the famous availability - and all the problems and great insecurity it has created in the public sector - the issues of redundancies, and it is possible to restore elementary stability and an internal feeling of confidence within the public administration. Because you know very well that, in order for the public administration to function, it must first of all the staff, the human resources of the public administration feel that it has dignity, that it is not devalued, and that his work really works. And because you referred to the party reformation, on a party state, on board for the future, I would like to remind you that the President of the New Democracy who was in my place - he was Minister of Administrative Reform - on one night - because you mentioned decisions taken overnight - in December 2014 by administrative political decision, without any transparency, crisis, criteria - to remember, of course, where we are and where we are - he made the positions of all the directors of all the ministries. This was at the end of December 2014 when we went for elections in early 2015. So, what did the government do after 2015, which you so easily come and say made an effort to set up the chosen ones and the occupants? He respected these directors-general. He didn't make a set-up, he didn't kick anyone out. But, on the contrary, the ministers in these three years of governance worked with these directors-general. And I say this because they are relevant to the questions, as well as to the judges of the administrative secretaries and the sectoral secretaries, it is also the crises that have already been completed - and I would like to inform you - of all the Directors-General of the Ministries, except for three which are also completed. So he respected this crisis, he cooperated. Because a sample of writing was given, that we don't care what each civil servant is voting for. We are concerned that he will do his job well, be honest and do what he needs for the citizen and for the public interest. In these instruments, then, of the first period when they came to correct the injustices, the government came in 2016 with two crucial legislation - which is also the institutional framework in which we are now moving and implementing - which is also an important institutional division, which is recognised by our partners and by the European institutions and by all the reports that have come out of it, in the logic of selecting officials, public administration and the wider public sector of the supervised bodies in a way that escapes from what has been done so far. Let us not fool ourselves - and you yourself have said so - there were political positions on political positions. It was another perception of the administration. Nobody comes to judge. It was another concept of how the administration is exercised. The government, however, with this 2016 law, has come to bring a European tradition of organising public administration to our country. Because here again I must tell you from personal experience that this is how many administrations are organised in many countries - members of the Union and, of course, the European Commission itself. The European Commission is working in this context. In other words, the Director-General is the relevant administrative secretary, which ensures continuity, institutional memory and efficiency in the supervision of administration, and above all there is the Commissioner who is, of course, a political person and the college of Commissioners with their respective functions, which are - we would say - the equivalent of the government. So this is a European model. We have also based on this model, and we are making this effort. You say now: what the guarantees were and if there were problems. The guarantees are first given by the law itself. The first great guarantee is the register of executives. That record is working. And because there are questions about the functioning of the registry, I will also give you the details just to know at this stage how many people have joined that registry. Of course, at your own initiative and a proposal - and here it shows that there is always good cooperation and an effort to have a composition in Parliament - it was the idea that there should also be the possibility of these executive positions, whether it be the sectoral and administrative secretaries or the administrations of the public sector, that the private sector should also be involved. And it was accepted. But right now, the Staff Register is working. Of course, a large part of the candidates are at the discretion of the respective institution, the National Administrations Selection Board, which is an institution institutionalised by law and which has all the criteria in its formation, that of course there is no government intervention. The Vice-President of the AACC is also the President of this board, operating under the supervision of the AACC. And, of course, the Administrative Register and, as you know, it works and there is now. I will give you the exact figures, which are more up-to-date: to date, two thousand and fifty-nine people have been registered in the Staff Regulations, two thousand-fifths of them being permanently registered, i.e. all supporting documents have been confirmed and have been cross-checked and are at the stage of final registration after the confirmation of another six hundred and forty-four people. Now, as far as the Special Council is concerned, the Special Steering Council is not just that it has functioned with institutional formation - not to get tired, but if you want in my denture I am happy to remind you of who it is, but certainly you know it - it has also made a series of moves to ensure exactly how this crisis works. In other words, first of all, there is the single table of criteria and the corresponding molecules. Because the criteria for qualifications and other matters in the notices that have come out - and now I also come to the specific question about the administrative secretaries - express some desirable minimum qualifications. But all this at the end of the day, when the Special Council comes to judge them, it will judge them on the basis of the specific criteria it has set on the website. It is bound by it and will, of course, be controlled for their observance, as well as the moleculosis it has mentioned and of course you can enter the website of the ASP and see them. And much more so, the structured interview does not allow for any variations in the examination of candidates. And just for there to be transparency and equivalence and equality towards candidates and the model of the structured interview is also uploaded on the website of the ASEP, so that there is no problem. A last item, to conclude with the notices, is the issue that many have raised, that is, because at the end of this long process, starting with the hundreds of thousands of candidates, we are going through this whole phase of pre-selection through the Special Council and after the structured interview, because we end up with the Minister choosing between three, the famous'short list' that also applies to the European Commission, and I have to tell you in all the procedures where there are corresponding higher-level selection procedures. But the Minister's choice is an option that is binding. He cannot say 'I don't want them', he cannot say 'I want someone else'. The choice is made through all this filtering and institutional process with all these steps that I mentioned. And when the Minister arrives, as in other expressions, and in constitutional terms, for the selection of officials in other areas such as the army, or like justice, there is at the end the expression of popular sovereignty in the person of the Minister concerned, as regards the captive option among three selected through the large pool of hundreds, thousands of candidates. And now I come to the specific issue of notices, because that is also the crucial issue you have mentioned. First of all, I sincerely want to say that it is natural when major institutional areas are made and it is their first application, perhaps there may be weaknesses and weaknesses. There was really no delay. However, first of all, because this was a total institutional change, the respective functions and organisational plans of the ministries with the new logic had to be clarified on what public administration and what structure we now come to call the head of the institution, namely the administrative and sectoral secretaries. From there on, I really want to say that my colleague, Mrs Gerovas, has had the emotiveness and political courage when there were protests and problems - which may at some point also have had a strong opposition and anti-government time and the publications, all of which is within politics - since there was one issue, to say that here we are going to instruct our external technical assistant to technical assistance. You know it's "EXPERTISE FRANCE", which took over to do an evaluation. This, if you wish, is not just because you have asked us to do so, which shows that parliamentary control is also constructive, because when you do and implement such an institutional section, you want to have the greatest assurances of credibility and of course of sovereignty. So this study was completed. They are fully informed about the institutions as well. And through this study, of the sixty-nine notices, it was indeed considered that for twenty-two invitations should be reopened. In fact, the effort, which has been made and indeed reflected in these notices, has been to have more codification and the consistency of criteria in three subjects, language knowledge and professional and administrative experience. And because you asked me - and I have to inform you - that of these twenty-two notices, the nineteen have not only been reopened, but that the deadline for the submission of applications has also passed, and of course the procedure is progressing, as is the case with the previous ones, within the framework of the aegis and supervision of the AACC and the Special Council. The three remaining will follow respectively. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] Madam President, I'm going to need three minutes of my dentistry. I come to the point of the figures of the candidates and of the AACC: Mr Georgadas submitted a letter on 29 June which he received from the AACC. I stand in this letter. You have the official answer of the AACC, you yourself filed it in the Minutes. The APA is an independent authority. As Minister, I am not interfering with operation and I do not judge its functioning. So the answer is there and I refer you to the answer you yourself have submitted in the Minutes. Now on the third topic...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u31	The names... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u32	However, responded to the SAEP.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u33	Minister, I can't tell you who the first four are, you know them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u34	Mr. Georganta, you will answer your dentistry. I didn't interrupt anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u35	Mr. Georgiod, please. You have a second word to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u36	I now come to the issue of the amendment to the Staff Regulations in relation to staffing in the broader public sector of legal persons under public law and the amendment that came in June, I think, not to postpone and suspend, but to transfer for six months. I'll be honest here because that's what happened. First of all, you know it's hundreds of them. At the same time, at the time of a complete change of administration, at a time when, perhaps two years ago, we could not have the full picture of the time for what it would be like, at the moment when the huge effort was made to enable the country to come out of the memorandum and, of course, all the acts of administration and all the prerequisites that had to be implemented in order to be able to return to a page, you can understand that it would create a problem if we were in that time for a comprehensive change of administration. By the time they were adapted, informed, there would be a matter. That is why that was the reason why when the amendment came to the House, it was announced by the government that it was a transfer and would apply exclusively from 1 January 2019, from now on. So, I'm saying there was no other feasibility. And I would like to say a second point: the AACC has been very burdened at this time by too many responsibilities and because it has the overall credibility, it is also responsible for the issues of recruitment and all the contracts that it must control and for all these issues, and of course along with the Special Selection Council, it helps with the choices of executive persons and crisis groups. So it would not be possible at this stage to organise and respond quickly to this matter too. So in order not to have any problems with the functioning of the public administration, this postponement of the date has taken place, but since 1 January next year it will be working properly. I shall return to my denunciation on the issues I have not been able to answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Minister. The circle of parliamentary representatives is now beginning. I therefore call on Mr Tindemans, who has 12 minutes and, of course, has a right to secondary education if he decides to do so. Here, Mr. Dendia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister said that 'What I did not have time to cover in my prototype will be covered in my denology'. Obviously, Minister, your intention to answer is in your dentistry, because you have not said anything to us in your protology. You ask about three basic things here. You know, ladies and gentlemen, this procedure of parliamentary scrutiny is not a process of friendly exchange of views about every scientist or a meeting of old comrades and friends who are discussing old glory, but it is a specific procedure for specific questions, which, as a rightfulness, appeals to a government, which is clearly blamed on it by this question. And the questions, Minister, are three. Who are the four ministers who have submitted a request to the AACC? Did you answer? Oh, no. How many calls of interest have they been issued? Did you answer? Oh, no. How many executive posts have they been paid for? Did you answer? Oh, no. What are we talking about then? You spoke twenty-two minutes. What were you talking about? I do not want to welcome you in this way to a government, which I do not wish to welcome anyway. Because you are particularly sympathetic to me, I honestly tell you that I would wish you were in any other political area. There are exceptions, of course, but they are not in the Chamber now. In any case, since you have decided on this appointed initiative, you can take part in this government, come and answer us. I beg your pardon, ladies and gentlemen, for this expression I am going to use, but this political comoyanism for all the evils in the world is caused by a quasi-military neoliberalism, which extremists, reminds us of a work with Georgia Vasileiou, in which it was black and whoever went to look at him, until the doctor went to the village, found him a disease, which would be healed with a herb. So this disease, according to SYRIZA, is the beginning of everything, the so-called neoliberalism that has never occurred in Greece, which is treated with a herb: SYRIZA. Can we talk a little bit seriously now? Because as a parliamentary representative I also have an institutional obligation, because, as you know, the parliamentary representative is the party leader's representative during the parliamentary procedure, I speak on behalf of the Head of New Democracy. Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou said as a sign of our great pragmatism that Mr Mitsotakis signed the ministerial decision in December 2014, which defined the directors-general. Yes, he signed it, well he did. Has this been done in application of Law 4275/2014, yes or no? Was it announced, yes or no? Was there the procedure described in the law followed, yes or no? Candidates, SAEPs, service councils. What's the deal, that he signed it in December 2014? Why do you say that? By choice, we fell from the government in January 2015 and had we planned to do our jobs in December 2014, or did you fire us? Just so we know what we're talking about. Was it a smooth end of the government and at the end of its constitutional term, fifteen days before the elections, or a month or two, Mr. Mitsotakis signed something, which is obviously legal? Why don't you tell me that if Mr. Mitsotakis had signed something illegal or something diagnosed or something vicious, the noble government of SYRIZA would have held the heads for two years! Are we serious now? Could you, in other words, "swallow them" them and not "cur them" them for the sake of Mr Mitsotakis and the New Democracy and the plight which we supposedly served? Is that what you came to tell us, Minister, here? But let's go a little bit on specific things. Please clearly, first of all, answer the three questions or come and tell us 'I don't answer you' or tell us 'I have a coma and I don't come'. But coming, eating all our time here and not getting any answers is a pity and it's a pity for you too. But let's go back and see what happened after all. You come with Mr.4369 and you see in his report - and there is a lot of discussion, I remember in plenary - the national executive registers. In this debate too, you see what the major diseases are, who the demons of public administration are. It is the intervention of the political leadership - you said at that time - rousfetti, anxiety, centralism, lack of expertise. The Minister noted this and applauded the Chamber and the government majority and proposed the treatment by law. What was the cure, dear Mr. Lappa? It is simple: executives, national register, evaluation system, rating structure. That's what you said then. This was the law, which you described as a ‘location’. In fact, you replied to Mr Voridis: 'No, we had a conflict'. Because of course it was incision. And the incision wants clashes, huh? Isn't that right? No clashes, no progress? You know, how did you treat yourself in this large section that you celebratingly told us it was a new step for Greece? Can I give you a little bit of a bill? You are voting for the law in 2016. In the same year, in 2016, you amend it four times. The next law, Law No.4370, the previous one was Law No.4369, is an amendment to the law. One week later, you're going through a change. With Mr.4386, you're reconfiding him. With L.4389, you're re-engaging him. With Law 4440, you're reconstructing him. You will tell me that it was a start and that you have made four amendments. Let's go to 2017 now. Do you know how many times you changed him? Six times! We have Law 4461, Law 4464, Law 4472, Law 4459, Law 4483 and Law 4489. You made six amendments in 2017 to the law that would - allegedly - necessitate public administration! Do you want to see what you have done in 2018? You're bringing him in. No 4512, Law 4514, Law 4533. Do you have any other modifications of the ‘location’ law to bring us? Tell us, let's see what you've done and finally know in here what happens to us. You were supposed to treat the identified diseases of public administration with the "location". But that's not enough. You're becoming a humiliation internationally and you're ridiculing the country. Excuse me, are you telling me about the next time, where with the compliance report the country came out and was asked to reopen posts? Can you bring me one more time here to see her? For the twenty-two seats of the sixty-nine, the Commission's compliance report says. The humiliation has passed the boundaries of the territory now and goes all over Europe. They tell you, "What have you done here? Proclaim again.’ And you come and present all this to us at the edge of the speech as if it were a simple process in the context of some modernisation. "What should we do? At first we make some mistakes. But, it's okay, we'll fix it later." Excuse me, do you understand that? Do you know that the government's term of office is over? Have you realised that it is time to apologise in front of our boss, Greek society, and say what everyone did, why did it, and how did he do it? You're going with that apology? Give me a reasonable answer to understand. The Greek state had a thousand pathogens. With Law 2190, which does not belong to a policy of our own area - to be explained - it was decided and accepted by the whole political system and by society that the door of pheasantness should finally be closed and that the AACC should be brought to an end once and for all. You are now coming, in disgusting procedures, with the belligerent pussies to abolish something that is an institutional success, if you will, of the Greek society and of the political system - to be honest, of the few great things - and to pass through and put your own people back and perpetuate state control. There is one saying in John the Gospel: “The one not entering through the door into the court of the sheep... the thief and the thief.” Do you understand? Allith for our people to enter, glorify the administration, see what we can climb, because we are leaving power. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the case. Society has gone through other phases and cannot tolerate these puppies. And I raise the tone - as you know, rarely do - to show you that there is a line. That line can no longer be crossed. The country has been in another institutional and social phase after a deep crisis. You are not entitled to use the judgment as a ticket to help your own people, to control public administration and to return the country where it was on Jube, not even before the crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u39	The parliamentary representative now has the floor from SYRIZA Mr Lappas. Mr. Lappa, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u40	Just six minutes, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u41	Not just you, all of them have six minutes. This is the process of questioning, so don't you get angry too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u42	We won't get mad at all. Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we are discussing an issue which we all recognise is the great lengthy patient in the Greek state, which is why it has been characterised by the European and international institutions many times as 'non-state law', and that is precisely the public administration. I would expect, at least, from the speakers in the New Democracy, a squeeze, anyway, because they have been ruling this country since 1950, inconsistently, over time, constantly and relentlessly. And I am looking to find in their rhetoric, their arguments, their political decisions, one - and it is numerical - an attempt to modernise, rationalise public administration. Today they come to tell us what? That we're trying with n.4369 to put in party friends. They don't at least read the law? We say that the Staff Register will be established exclusively, primarily by the officials of the public administration themselves. And we say this because we have a whole philosophy in order to follow up - what we call institutional memory - public administration. I hear from you that we choose to put party friends. Suddenly, the members of half the public administration, who have been appointed for decades by opaque and non-legislative procedures as a whole, became friends of SYRIZA and the Government, and we want to make use of them in the Register of Executive Officers? So, the fact that there is an instrument made up of the most profound institutional environment of the Greek state, SAPA, Legal Council of State, representatives, experts from top institutions, by all the productive and social actors who dedicate this institution, for you does not provide the minimum institutional guarantee and you shoot and destroy for everything? But I'll tell you why you're doing it. In the three years that we have been here as MPs, I would like to tell you, Mr Voridis and Mr Tindemans, that we are not professional politicians. We are still lawyers, mainly and secondly MPs. And we have no problem with what Mr. Karagunis said before that we are shaking not to lose our chair. We don't have any horror and no passion for our chair. We know that by leaving here we will go to our offices and work because we have studied it, Mr Vorides, and you know it very well. But by saying that at this stage we tried to fill "Carnish" the register, you probably have decided to abolish this law, because you dream that there will be a government that won't be, you just hope. And as Aristotle said: "The hope is the dream of an awakening man." But you're probably not awake yet, Mr. Teddy. Sleep. You won't be a government, so you won't be able to abolish it. This question here, I think, has a purpose. You did not take the least responsibility, all the members of the New Democracy. And here open a parentheses. You don't shoot and you don't fight rabies, I'd say, every modernist effort we're doing in the field of public administration, but you did the same with PASOK, Andreas Papandreou. You said the same thing back then. That is why, in your political argument and philosophy, there is no modernist political proposal. Do you know why you're fighting them? I will tell you what initiatives you have fought against all of them. Because every attempt that wants to close doors, windows, moons, holes, underground, runways dark, which you have used for decades for your own children, you are now shaking if they are closed down. And they close with such legislative efforts, as much as the efforts of Andreas Papandreou's PASOK and later. I am not saying that there have been other worthwhile efforts, but they have been imperfect that have not solved the problem at least in depth and definitively. I will now remind myself of the battle we fought, the political controversy, when we discussed the bill that was then made by Mr.4369. Mr. Voridis, I consider you to be an honest man. I have Mr Georgioda's statement now in June. Since then, you have said that you are against the principle of the bill. Mr Georgiotis was absolutely honest in the Greek Parliament. Listen to his statement: 'Even if all procedural matters are resolved, Minister - and you corrected them today, we disagree with the philosophy of the law.' That is your problem, it is neither the files of the four Ministers nor anything else. You shoot a law that you fought with rabies and you fight today. Yeah, what do you think? You say that if you ever come to power, the first thing you do is abolish the law. Why? Let the Greek people hear why. Because you do not want to take advantage of the positions of official, administrative, public administration staff. You want party friends. Isn't that what you've been doing for 50 years? And what do you want to change? Has the Council of State not said in a number of decisions that public administration is not distinguished by equilibrium, by equilibrium, by equilibrium, by equilibrium, by integrity, by a sense of public interest, Mr Voridis? At the university we learned that the public administration first must serve the public interest, the "salus populi suprema lex esto", Mr. This is what we learned in legal science and as lawyers in audiences that we defend. That's what you don't want. The Minister said something that I will repeat. Does the law have any imperfections in its application? Come here in accordance with the procedure of parliamentary scrutiny, which is the most responsible and public procedure, to make proposals for improvement. But you don't. You say "we want to abolish the law. We want the final members of the public administration to be our political friends." Except they're not political friends, Mr. Voridis. They're party friends, they're party officials. We proposed that this register. That is our spirit, that is our philosophy, that is our political proposal. What's your record? The register of party executives that you have created from the executives you are preparing for the ‘re-occupation’ of the public administration or the register to which Mr Marcoyannakis will be parted for the exchange of the trade in political foundations and positions in a large organisation? This is your register, and that must be understood by the Greek people. And I won't let you do it. Reconstitution of your logic, your philosophy and your practice will not be done. I have heard from one of the questioners that we are doing all we are doing, the terrible, the catastrophic, that we are destroying public administration and the rule of law, and we are going to have our own party friends. And one speaker messed up post-convicted officials with the final executives. Do you realize we're talking about people in public administration? Is that what you're saying? You're not saying that. None of you said it and you hide it. Did you say what guarantees the law itself provides for throughout the entire process and the path of selecting all staff members, whether they are special secretaries, whether they are sectoral or directors and heads, or the administrations of all legal persons governed by public and private law? We are talking about thousands and you say that it is of a "photograph" character. If it can be understood, Madam President, seven and a half thousand candidates in sixty-nine notices! How much "photograph" can it be? Seven and a half thousand candidates and not one of them appealed to justice for an unjust or allegedly illegal procedure. Not even one! And we know that the Council of State and the administrative courts have three hundred thousand cases, concerning how to choose and how to appoint them. Not one - and I stress this in order for the Greek people, Madam President - to understand what is being said today in the question! What am I judging, Mr. Georgioda? Here's how I understand the essence and the core of your political thought that's here, at the heart of your question. The threat of criminal liability, because in future you say that 'if we ever become a government' - you will once become a government, not now, you may be once, after all, that is parliamentary control, this is parliamentary democracy, alteration of parties to power - you say that the criminal procedure and criminal control will help you to be the embryonic of the abolition of the law. You won't make it. Do you know why? Because society and Europe will also react as a whole. You will not be able to do this because you cannot go back to what you have done for fifty years. You can't. And I'll tell you right away.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u43	Come on, Mr. Lappa, I understand you want to say a lot, but it's also the Minister who needs to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u44	I shall conclude, Madam President. Mr Vorides, Mr Georgioda, can you tell me when we became a government, what was the first thing we did in terms of the Secretary-General of the seven decentralised administrations? What did we do where there were resignations? Who paid them back? General Directors. And immediately, on the basis of objective criteria and through IAS, the staffing of the seven decentralised administrations was followed. The hospital managers are whining because we didn't have their own kids. We won't, because we have another public administration philosophy. And because, in general, I could mention to you infinite legislative initiatives and interventions, which you have all fought against...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u45	You cut them by law! You've stopped them! He's in court.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u46	You have fought all legislative initiatives, Mr Georgioda. You fought them all. You did not support a legislative initiative concerning the rationalisation and modernisation of public administration. And you didn't just do it then, you do it over time. And because you are generally speaking of lawlessness, I will remind you of a phrase that Nikos Paradylopoulos said, not now as a Member of Parliament, but as a professor: "Egency is the distance between institutions and public administration and reality and legality." That's lawlessness. The other lawlessness is in your mind and in your conscience. But your conscience knows what it is. It's what your Chief said in December 2014, when he changed, he conceived all the managers. It says "justice" Mr. Dendias. How lawfully? With what crisis...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u47	Talk about the four ministers who took the files in their office. Is that right? Do you agree? Because that is what concerns today's meeting. Response for the "baker".
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u48	Mr. Georgiod, please. It doesn't make any sense. You've already said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u49	You've got a lot of nerves today, Mr. Georgioda.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u50	You said that eight people, Mr. Georganta. That's what it sounds like.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u51	Response for the "baker".
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u52	The AACC and the Minister responsible replied.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u53	The Minister answered, not me. I don't have the file.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u54	So when your Chief of Administrative Reconstruction changed all the directors, he made the following statement to Parliament, Madam President, by addressing Mr Tsipras and SYRIZA: "You do not like numbers. You see, you are only interested in people." That's it. For the people of Public Administration we are primarily interested in saying not only.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u55	Mr. Scandalides has the floor. You've got six minutes too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u56	Madam President, I am succeeding in the Stepma of excellent lawyers in a judiciary which I live in at the moment, and indeed in an uproar. You will allow me some humble remarks. Madam Secretary, I have a difficulty. You know her better than I do. I understand that you are doing a great deal of work to give a covert institutional legitimacy to a policy, regardless of its question and specific elements, for which I too understood that, unfortunately, you did not respond in particular. In a very serious way you tried to give this coating. We had a common course even before 1980, and you know how proud you were and how fanatical you defended the major reforms that marked the entire post-multiple era: the IASP, the JEPs, the Citizens' Counselor, the "KOPESTISTRIA", administrative decentralisation, the administration with objectives and results, with efficiency indicators, with an assessment, with transparency, with value-addedness, and later, in a second period, the "DIAGY", the institutions of transparency and all that today constitute the legal framework for the functioning of the public administration, which is incomplete, which you need lasting changes, but which was established at the time. Today I hear you, and I really don't believe in my ears because you're an apology to a government, where daily practice shows that it has no faith in the institutions and is trying to manipulate them. He uses the state as a feud of power, abolishes the discrimination and autonomy of constitutional powers. He's shooting at the press freedom. Daily life is found by such examples of political arbitrariness. Until a few years ago you defended the idea of progress, democratic reforms. Today you apologise, again in the name of progress, for the whole opposite policy. It is a counter-reform policy consistently from the beginning to the end. As far as today's question is concerned, I think I do not "collapse glauka to Athens" if I start counting daily fingerprints of this policy. It is not just the elements of the question that I will not repeat. Open daily newspapers and electronic media and you will see that they are found in similar cases. The method of appointments through the continuous expansion of administrative structures, general secretariats, the scandalous increase of post-mortem officials, the so-called super-party framework, which substantially transforms the state to the point where the good people and the party are gathered, is a daily reality that also has something that does not have the refined. You have a coarse practice, too. It is the way in which the amendments are introduced to major institutional issues, such as, for example, the 'Classhen' issue and the amendment to the elections, the way in which the vacancies are filled every day, the way in which post-mortem officials are increased, the way in which the general secretariats are now being increased, which the state is suddenly growing in order to appoint people. This cannot be in line with what you have said in a European framework for the functioning of the administration. That is why I believe that this cynicism should be stopped - because this cynicism is scary - and this ruthless practice, which actually results in the realisation and effective functioning of the administration. I am not one of those who claim that the changes made in previous years have been a complete and complete change. I remember that when we brought the SAP, Mr. Lappa, there was a great fight from Mr. Peponnes to join the SAP and the wider public sector. The majority of the government then did not accept it and there was an internal battle to do that. This delayed its implementation a few weeks, a few months, a few years. It was incomplete too, but it was reform. But then you were all against the street, against it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u57	On that side.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u58	No, it's not just from that side, because I'm not just talking about ADP and about this change. I am talking about all major changes and reforms, incomplete and incomplete, which have essentially marked the transformation. That is why I think it is a great mistake that some, such as the late Constantine Mitsotakis, should try to rewrite the story of Postpopulation from their own point of view and make a substantial counterfeiting of the story from a second point of view, in order to cancel a period that was the most brightest period for the Hellenic Republic. I cannot hear even today about the 'PASOK depth' and that 'PASOK depth' has made all the mistakes in this society.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u59	Who did he hear from?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u60	PASOK is the only thing that did the reforms, the only thing that made progressive changes, the only thing that changed things based on the needs of the country and they were all in most cases to him - everyone! - whether they left the House or participated and voted against. And this is where we are prevented. That's why I started with this judiciary confrontation. There is the question of the continuity of the state. The achilles heel of Greek society, the achilles heel of postmulseism, is that everyone tried to change the state, to make it more modern, but eventually even the younger Karamanlis came to modernise it and re-establish it and more than four hundred thousand employees were appointed in this period. And I say a few, because according to other versions, it's up to seven hundred thousand. So it is not possible that every government that comes to dismantle what the previous one has done and re-start the sweater again from the beginning, so that the administration can finally function and stop the achilles heel. I would therefore like to say to you very much that this does not change without national agreement. They do not change without the democratic political forces agreeing on preparing, planning and deciding to implement it together. They don't change that. And it's not a classic matter the state's function anymore. It's not. He's not who owns it. He's not who's handling it. It is not who runs it, but how effective it is in a critical period of modern Greek history, to get the country out of the crisis and not just to have structures of a modern state, but to live in. This is something that one cannot understand, only if there is a framework of national understanding. Is that not possible? We have no future, and we will simply be exhausted in trenches of trenches. I, ladies and gentlemen, have been in this Chamber for almost thirty years. I'm sick of the trenches of trenches. I'm sick of them! They don't tell anyone anything about anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u61	Mr. Hadjisavvas from Golden Dawn now has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u62	Madam President, we are experiencing incredibly surrealistic situations by listening to the New Democracy and the PASOK talking about the establishment of a party state, and indeed about being able to take action against ministers and officials from their homes. In addition, they speak as if they have never ruled over the last decades, from 1974 onwards, and as if they had been in a draw state for their days. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the Vice-President of Parliament, Ms. MARios GEORGIADIS.]] The New Democracy, however, has the following problem. On its day, in trying to build a party state, feeling that it is being chased by guilt and intercourse of the past on the right and fearing not to call them fascists and extreme right-wings, they were appointing left-wing and populaces to the state, believing that they would change their minds and make them a New Democracy, throwing out the popular base of the New Democracy that was fighting and running, but that the left should always be appointed even on the days of the New Democracy. The government of SYRIZA - ANEL because it undertook to continue the memorial contract of extermination of the Greek people and the assignment of any national independence and sovereignty that had been left by the previous ones, they know very well that they will rule only once, this is their chance, and so they have lights and twenty-four hours a day to achieve their goal. They are building a party army of voters, not only by appointments, mainly by transcripts from the dissolved PASOK, not only of first-class officials, MPs, former PASOK MPs and ministers, but also of voters, and that will look very well in the next elections. PASOK is certainly trying to change the situation with some changes in faces and names. But the people do not punish PASOK only for the stealing and scandals that broke Greece. The PASOK is being punished mainly because the profile and the probe of the prolific socialist was uncovered and the wolf of insurmountable capitalism was revealed. Their cooperation with the neoliberal New Democracy demonstrates that it is the same as the New Democracy, so the people do not need it. Anyway, given the opportunity to talk about the pathogens of the Greek state, I would say that the largest and most basic pathogen of the Greek state is not that the state becomes party, it is that the state is not national. He has become an enemy of the nation, targeted and persecuted the Greek people, deprives him of basic rights and freedoms. And we see this every day, in every manifestation of political life and the economy, in the way of expressing protest by the Greek people, how it is suppressed. Of course, the Greek people see this and I think you can't make fun of him for a long time. There must immediately be a regeneration of the Greek state, there must be an immediate national state of relief in the efforts and effort of the Greeks who have been paying for the past few years. Regardless of whether they are accusing themselves of saying that the Greeks do not want to work, that they are counterproductive, that the European Union was subsidising non-productive and that we have seen it at all the levels of subsidies it gave, whether they were agricultural or anything else. There should be a state of solidarity directly with farmers, workers, free professionals, pensioners, keep the young people leaving Greece and try to bring back those who left with sorrow and pain. Because they didn't want to leave Greece, you simply deprived them of them, apart from work, and the right to a vision of the future. There will have to be a national protagonist of the multiple families, which will grant the birth of new Greeks, since the problem of birth is huge and everything else to solve, whatever problem you have to solve, we will find in front of us the problem of birth, which is not solved by foreigners and illegal immigrants coming to Greece. A nation state, therefore, that only the Golden Dawn will succeed in building, with the vote of the Greek people, and of course guaranteeing the future of our nation's children.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr. Hadjisavva. Mr Papachristopoulos has the floor from the Independent Greeks for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr President. I wonder whether I live the present Greek reality or someone else. I have listened to Mr Teddy in real eloquence, with a quick reason to express a thought and to be sure of it. I would like to remind you of some unpleasant things. A few days ago an old Minister and MP for many years of the New Democracy, Mr. Marcoyanakis, publicly said that the Chief of Officerial Response said to him: "Get back, I want to renew the party. I don't want you to be a candidate in Chania, and if you want I can give you any TEKO you ask me." Mr Marcoyannakis is neither a caffeine nor anyone who wants to hurt me, I imagine, in a party that has served for many years, more than Mr Dendia and all those who are in here. In simple terms, the concept of the Public Administration of the current Head of the New Democracy is reflected in the way he faced an old MP and an old Minister. This is the impression: 'Government administration for the respective rulers'. I still want to remind you of something, because there have been signs and monsters lately and some people are doing that they don't remember them. One of your own members - because I have the insistence to remember the ERIC 'NOVARTIS', 'ERRIKOS DON' - was taking vaccines uselessly, which were rotting in the refrigerators and in its honor - I say it is not what I say - the current Minister of Health then escaped as a Minister of Health some 80 million, which were reverted with persistent efforts. It is the identity of today's Minister that some have said that she is sad or I don't know what. In addition, the Committee of Inquiry into the 'SIEMENS' scandal unanimously charged 2 billion. Even Nigeria then took money. Where were you, really, when the then Prime Minister Samaras assigned his lawyer Mr. Bernica the case and the 2 billion became 150 million who were never collected? What kind of public administration did you have in mind then, when almost all the environment of the then prime minister was found to have offshore in Panama Papers? Don't make me say names because I have them in front of me. Not Mr. Samaras himself, the whole environment is his relative and friendly. In fact, I remember when Mr Bernitsa his lawyer, the one who handled the 'SIEMENS' case, the one who followed him everywhere, said: 'I have an offshore in Panama Papers.' Which public administration are we talking about? I hear every day a argument that if you really want to support it, bring in two hundred economists. You are striving for the bankruptcy of the country to charge it to three, three and a half years of government over this government. Can you? No, you can't. I hear about 80 billion, 100 billion. Some are galantic and speak for 200 billion. Bring an economist seriously to support it and tell us where these are being captured. The public debt was 325 billion, over 5 billion and not more, all responsible people all over the planet say so. What kind of public administration are you talking about? For the one who bankrupt the country? I'll remind you of some numbers. The deficit received by this government in 2009 was 15.1%. Today is 0.8%, but it's a surplus. At some point, you know, gentlemen, that you are using expressions and insults - I do not even have to say them - like the 'bad government', the'military', etc., you have reached the recession at 5.5%. Today is growth. You have reached 28% of unemployment. It is a great deal of unemployment, but seven points have fallen. You never justified that public debt when they were leaving like bullets the money abroad. And because I have heard Mr. Treasury, who I sincerely respect him, say that for every disease, etc. There is only one word, 'neo-liberalism'. I would like to remind Mr Dendia: In the events of 2008, with the collapse of the 'LEHMAN BROTHERS', the planet was charged 10 trillion. The bride was paid for by the working class and the middle class. The banks were recapitalised by money from these people and no one else. They condemned millions of people in unemployment, austerity and income loss. Does it remind you of anything, Mr. Dendia, the fact that you delivered us 27.5% of what you so well speak and deceive anything? Was it, yes or no, the neoliberal culture that condemned all Greeks to lose one quarter of their property, reach unemployment at 28% and in austerity to death? Did I live in another country and I don't understand it? I don't have time. I just have to read the answer to the SAAP. First of all, I heard Mr Scandalidis with respect. Yes, indeed, Anastasios Peponis, who established the ASP, did not come out for those who do not remember. I admit that what Mr Scandalidis said and I never get the floor. I think there have been a lot of things then, very positive. It's not time to list them, because I don't have time. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I need two minutes, Mr. President. Can I have them? And I'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u65	Just limit it in a minute. You've been talking seven and a half minutes already. You will have a relative tolerance. We must finish because, after all, the Conference of Presidents follows and you can see that we have to go. If you can be short and complete in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. I read because I heard too much. In December 2014, ordinary civil servants were five hundred ninety thousand thirty-two, seventy-seven thousand. In December 2017, in the three years that passed with this government, it was five hundred sixty-sixteen thousand eighty-sixty-one. Because I hear things. In the public sector, that is, there has been a decrease in civil servants by about fourteen to fifteen thousand. Secondly, I read the answer to Mr. Dendias's question: "The data and qualifications of those candidates in the proceedings in question are registered in the Civil Service Staff Register, which has been kept electronically since July 2016 by the AACC and has been posted on its official website. It is also clarified that the qualifications of the candidates contained in the above tables have not been processed and evaluated by the IAS as they fall within the competence of the Special Selection Board.’ Even - and I'm ending, why has my time been over - I want to remind you that: What exactly did you do with the general and special secretaries? Was it a term or not eighteen months before the elections, which means that it was a purely political position? Is it a step forward what this government started? Do you want me to agree to some of you, that the public administration suffers, that it is not corrected from day to day? It was a very positive step. In fact, we've all been surprised by the way. They said "they must be ashamed", "they must be humiliated". No, Mr. Treasury. I'm not embarrassed. Others had to be ashamed, who went bankrupt and unjustly loaded to Varoufakis, the remaining eighty billion, the hundred billion - decide how much - and the two hundred billion!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u67	Mr. Papachristopoulos, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u68	I shall conclude by saying this: it is my last sentence. Honestly.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u69	Yeah, but you got three minutes out of the two minutes you asked for. Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u70	The European Commission's Compliance Report praises this government. If you don't know, I'll give it to you to read it. In particular, it says that for the first time they are not appointed and are not ceased overnight administrative secretaries by the Minister concerned. On the contrary, they are selected through an open and transparent procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u71	Come on, Mr. Papachristopoulos. You're embarrassing me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u72	I'll agree on something, though. Public administration is perhaps the most weak part of the Greek state, because it was indeed a spoil for many years. It doesn't change from one day to the next. A positive step is, however, taking place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u73	Be well. Mr. Mavrosh has the floor for six minutes. After all, you're always conscientious. I hope you'll keep it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u74	I will be, Mr President, and thank you very much. I think the number one pathogen of our political system is the client state and the party domination. Not only because the resulting inexperience ends up in an incompetence that ultimately costs, but because it draws on consciences and attitudes that finally believe that, in order to move forward, it wants to go on, it wants to know and not know, it wants a bar in Koroni or in Charilaos Trikoupis and Rigilis before and now in Koumoundouros. The promotion of favoured and not the most appropriate ones therefore works corrosively for both the state and society in general. So the party domination and the client state are the number one pathogen in time and not just in the last three years in SYRIZA - ANEL. They were before, to be fair. I often hear SYRIZA justify it by saying that the previous ones did the same. But that's why they're precedents. The world voted for you because he believed that hope is coming and not because the work is repeated. When SYRIZA pre-electionally spoke about fighting the client state, many believed it and were disappointed. I will give you a recent example of this, and I will also take note of it, Minister, since I wish you a 'good success' in your role. In the last few days, I have received complaints about the procedures for selecting school counsellors or teachers' coordinators - such as the new terminology - following the recent law on education structures. In these procedures, i.e. the selection of training coordinators, there was mobilisation by the scientific criteria and experience - which were the objective criteria - and by the interview, by a committee where the majority were service providers. Oh, then, some school advisors who were not heirs and who had opposed the law on education structures were offended after the interview. Others, probably more friendly to the government, were launched from the interview. In fact - as I was told - the interview with the first, the 'anti-government' included questions in the form: 'As soon as you are against the law, how will you serve him?' as if the public officials were making a choice of the laws they will implement. Or they were told: "Do you agree with the announcements made by the Pan-Hellenic Association of School Counsellors, who publicly disagreed with government policy on education structures?" In other words, we now have statements of educational opinion. I thought such unacceptable situations had left them before. It seems, however, that they are returning more closely over your days. The evaluation and selection of training managers began unorthodoxly with this law from the bottom up, so that the regional training directors would choose the good and exclude the undeserved. Regional training directors should recall that they were basically selected by party criteria and their grace - if you remember - had reached the European Parliament. Revancishism, ladies and gentlemen, especially in the sensitive area of education, was and is a vicious circle, which mortgages its proper functioning. Let's go back a little bit. With L.4369/2016 for the public administration and the executive register, the positions of the secretaries of the Ministries would be published with open invitations. It was open to talk, though. Because in practice, as the notices were formulated by Ministry, they were finally shut down. It was only the photograph of the secretary or other chosen government. A characteristic case - it has already been mentioned - the position of Secretary-General of Sport, which needs two foreign languages, but one being outside the European Union, as if we were looking for someone who studied in China or Russia. Or are we looking for someone like that? With a bunch of spoons, we'd make fun of the puppy bags. But come on, when we were caught on the back and showed a red card to the government, forcing it, as has been said before, to reopen twenty-two of the total sixty-sixteen post offices of the administrative and sectoral secretaries of the ministries, namely one in three. Is moral advantage or immoral gain? Of course, the client state and partyization also want trained customers, who think, if they stick to a party, somehow, someplace, that will suit them. In recent decades the first time the citizen has been in touch with the client state is with the party colleges in the universities, the ones that emit "come with us and we will suit you". This may suit parties - so they actually train executives - but universities do not suit them, because party and academic criteria do not convene. In closing, ladies and gentlemen, the six-minute position when we talk about the party-state and the client-state, this is the privileged field of the river. Why? I think you all understand that. Because he has as a key point in his nature the war in the client's state, inexperience and contributory rule. He can do it convincingly, because he just doesn't have customers to satisfy, he doesn't have bills to pay off. Because it does not tell the citizen that it will suit him, but that he will pave the way for him to run on equal opportunities and open procedures. And if we don't understand that Greece needs key positions for those who know the object and not those who know the Minister or the MP, we'll keep chasing our tails. So partyisation of public administration and in the past, and in the present, is the "gangrain" of the modern state, which, instead of knowledge, is enlisting acquaintances, instead of cognitive evidence, is being recruited by party credentials. But this Greece can't go far. Go to the Balkans and back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u75	Thank you to Mr Mavrotas and to his consistency. Mr Cavalellas has the floor for six minutes, the last of the Members of Parliament. Then we'll get through to the second grades to complete the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u76	Thank you very much, Mr President. I was under the impression that the Left, having the moral advantage, would have the sensitivity to reach the knife in the bone, to show that with the practices that follow, it has a new, honest, refreshing face. I'm really glad you took the government the first time. A left government would change things as you promised. On this point, the new Minister for Administrative Reconstruction had the opportunity to show that it is moving within an institutional role, a new profile for yourself, but also for your Government. Your governance, however, is becoming more and more state-of-the-art and that does not make us a special impression, since you do not fail to remind us all of your respect for Madouros and Castro and other democrats of similar scope. It is a great impression that photographic descriptions of required qualifications make us feel. A few days ago you brought a bill to a vote with an article that gave forty molecules to the candidate after an interview and only five molecules for each postgraduate, gentlemen. I mean, "Good morning, I'm here for an interview and I'm a best friend, take forty molecules", while "Good morning, I have three masters, we're sorry you have only fifteen molecules and you're rejected". The Greek people begin to understand your real face and your true intentions. So you do not show any sensitivity, when for five months you have kept in the anonymity your four ministers who have made use of their power in an unauthorised manner and have intervened in APA procedures by drawing up elements of the candidate administrative and sectoral secretaries. You remind me of the old PASOK, the green guard PASOK, which you use the same old-fashioned practices. You are complaining that you have taken the government and not the authority. You want to take authority and smear everything. One of the worst attempts of perfume was to overcome Mr. Poppa's attempt to override the constitutionally regulated Television Council. He only wanted four permits to rule. The ERT, your channel, presents the saddest picture since it was founded. It's a pluralist of power and not just. They're giving - listen, gentlemen! - 1 million euros for the millennium played and savoured, which is no longer seen, 'Small house in the meadow'. The New Democracy is asking you for explanations today about non-respective procedures. So I say to the accuseing side, which, rather, as a good thing coming out of the swimming pool of Siloam and without sin now asks for explanation, "the one who sinned first put the stone." Your sins, of course, do not remove you from the right to ask, but we too, since you are on the brink of power, ask you this: How do you intend, Lords of the Right, to rule? Does not the mere analogy be the maximum intention of deportation to the state for the sake of democratic expression? Because the vote of my voter counts 0.7 and your 1.3 voter. I am now addressing the government. You are telling us that you have constant delusions to justify your mistakes. You keep telling us narratives. We can no longer trust you, neither we nor the Greek people. Unfortunately, your power has been politically corrupted, not at the highest levels of government, but you see it at the bottom. You, gentlemen of the New Democracy, will certainly be in power rather soon. The'sure', of course, will be seen. I'm afraid you haven't learned anything either. Here we will then be, with similar accusations and similar questions. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr Cavadela, and for the brief time. Mr Georgiotis has the floor for his denology. Then Mr Vorides follows and we will continue with the abbreviations of the Minister and the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy Mr. Dendia, in order to complete the process. Mr. Georgioda, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, today you have lost a unique opportunity. I hope that I will be disproved in your dentext, although the content of your protology does not make me very optimistic in this regard. There is no point in the specific issues that we have raised to defend anyone. My question today, the topical question of the thirty Members of the New Democracy, who I had the honour of drafting, has three specific questions. You refused to answer all three, although the two of them have been responded indirectly, and I will say what it is, so that we all understand what is going on. The third and final question was how many final positions the responsibility laid down in Article 8 of L.4369/2016 has been met so far by the selection procedure of the Executive Officers’ Register. Article 8 is this for legal persons governed by public and private law, institutions and hospitals. I give the answer: 'No one'. None of the persons provided for in Article 8 of Law No.4369/2016, who voted as a flag law in February 2016 and had to operate since September 2016, has been paid by this procedure of your own law. Question 2: Since October 2016, which operates in the Civil Service Tribunal, how many notices have been issued to fill these posts in accordance with Article 8? Let me give you the answer: 'A month ago!' Hundreds of seats have been paid all this time directly by the ministers, directly by the relevant bodies, without any competitive procedure, without any criterion, without any assessment, even this with distortive points, as you described in the law that you voted in favour of. We voted against him at the time - and rightly so, Mr Lappa - because we, in particular, have a specific political position - recognised it by the Minister - we are glad to say it: we do not want the term of office, we want the positions to be political. But everything else - because what they say is 'all the others' - none of them, no one. And you say that it was not possible to do this - and that is why with the amendment that came in July you left it for 2019, as if you were not going to be able to do it - there was a burden on the ADP. Do you know how I understand that? Firstly, it didn't have to be all together. They'd gradually become with the centrifugation of each position. You had two years to do it, and I did not see anything to complain and say "you sent me fifty notices, you sent me a hundred, you sent me two hundred, I can't do them". You didn't send him. In the explanatory statement to the amendment, you say 'due to the burden of the AACC' and you say something else 'and public administration'. I don't get it. It is in the explanatory statement to your amendment. It is precisely the wording: "it is necessary because of the current burden of work of the IAS, but also of the other services of the administration". So, we didn't cover, under the law, the objective as you were saying, the place in a hospital, but we let every minister choose him automatically, because the administration had a workload? I don't get it. And the ASA had a workload when you didn't send him any notices? Secondly, and only the fact that two thousand members have been permanently registered in the Public Staff Register shows that this institution has been devalued by all civil servants. Those who were able to register are tens of thousands. So the tens of thousands who had the opportunity to register were registered two thousand. Of the seven thousand heard, the five thousand are from the private sector. Mr. Lappa, who told you that someone could object to an appeal if the paintings don't come out? Does he have a legitimate interest? Why are you saying that no one appealed to the courts? Why are you lying? The tables and the excluded must come out in a legitimate interest and make his objection and appeal to the administrative authorities.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u79	Obviously.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u80	Any paintings coming out, Mr. Lappa? Nobody. How can they make an appeal? When you take the boards off, if you dare, then we'll see how many appeals will be made. And when the tables come out, it will be interesting to see how many of the servants currently serving as general and administrative secretaries, who themselves made the announcements, participated themselves, and indeed, with an amendment adopted in December 2017, are those who will ultimately be chosen. And to end with the four Ministers, because there is not just a lie, there is hypocrisy for me now, and synergy, I will say this: I only have one thing in my hands - and I took it after three months of asking Mrs Gerovasili for a written question - is the copy of a leaf, the first card from the answer she sent to your ministry. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm done. One more minute, Mr President. So there I am told that in four ministries, at their request, tables were sent. Apparently, it says exactly, in the appendix there is a model I. Whoever has model I - which I don't have, you have it - looks like the names of the four ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u81	It's posted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u82	It's not posted anywhere, it's only the Ministry. Say the names of the four Ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u83	It says so below.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u84	What's the problem? What's up? These paintings are nowhere, they're the paintings sent to the Ministry. In answer, I don't have them. Say the names of the four Ministers. If they did everything legally, why don't you just say it, so we can tell them a "bravo"? Do you consider it legitimate, legitimate, that the copies of the files should be in the offices of the Ministers of Ministers by the candidates? Have you seen this in Europe, Minister? Because you referred to European practical policy. That's where anyone who chooses gets in his office all the candidates' files to choose at the end. The hypocrisy is over! That's the story New Democracy isn't going to leave her. The names of the four Ministers will be found out. They are invalid - not invalid - all these procedures and you have a responsibility to let them go. You should know that the responsibility, since you are not rescinding all this void procedure, the lame legal and moral, is now yours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr. Georganta. I will give the floor to Mr Vorides, and then the Minister will start its second. Mr. Voridis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u86	Look, here today we are not having a general debate on public administration issues. We do not have a general debate on different concepts or political philosophies on these issues, on public administration issues. But both the Minister and the parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Lappas, have tried to divert the debate on them. Of the twenty-two minutes of the theology of the Minister, the seventeen minutes were the description of the legislative initiatives. Thank you for your information, kindness, reminded us of those who did not remember them, but in the end we are not talking about this. What you are accusing of - the government, which you represent here, is as simple as that. And I put it according to your understanding, not ours. We have a different perception of this. It's printed. But we are not having this conversation today. We have now gone to your law. You've brought a law. In this law you must explain: why are the files suddenly going to the offices of the Ministers? Was that right? Can we have a government position? If it was right, can you tell us the names of the four to place them here in public, praise them and call them "go"? Let us say to them: "You workers and you have done the above that others have not done." If it wasn't right, you can tell us the names to punish them. It's simple. Why don't we just call the names? Why don't you put it down? Was that correct or not based on your own perception and legislation? Leave what we say. We're not having this conversation here. We come to the second point. I have heard your position and you say: 'What a good thing Mrs Gerovassili has done to recognise that at the initial stage there were some malfunctions'. Was this about malfunctions, negligence, about uncertainty? In other words, have these two languages been respected? Where someone wrote, Mr. Lappa, and says, "What qualifications do I want for the Secretary-General of Sports?" He left his pen and wrote: 'I want two languages, one from Europe and the other from outside Europe'. Was this about observance? Wasn't this a fraudulent act with which a particular person was photographed? That's what I want you to tell us. But you did not answer that either. Here, while in theory you have the possibility of a new beginning, you take a certain weight. Because if you say: “Yes, you know, they embroidered unacceptable practices. I deplore them and now we are taking them properly', this is a placement, honest, clean, which accounts for responsibilities and starts. But it is another thing to say: 'What is good for Mrs Gerovas, who acknowledged that there were some issues in 1/3 of the notices'. There were no issues, but there was something missing. There were issues like that. The last question, to which you have to place yourself, is this: you gave the extension and you say: 'Hey, we couldn't do it when the country was in order to get out of the Memorandum to do that as well'. But you knew them all the time. The administration and the government were aware of the time of expiry of the terms of office. So, if she were honest with her intention - we didn't have a sudden event here that forces you to prolong, you have knowledge, you know that the terms are ending then and you need to get ready - why not prepare? And that's why we're accusing you here is that you don't get ready. You have not been prepared because, in fact, you have not set up a mechanism that will make this process dialect and this procedure on the basis of your own terms. So your announcements, Mr. Lappa, are lame. Your legislative initiatives are wasteful and are cancelled by the government's practice. The so-called intention to dismantle the administration is annulled, because it is precisely because there is an organised methodology that leads to the full partyisation of the administration. But we want answers in this respect, we hope in secondary.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr. Vorides. Madam Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully to all Members' positions. I want to make a few things clear in the first place. First of all, because you have wondered and in a little disgraceful way because I have come to answer today, I would like to say that I have come to honour first of all Parliament, the parliamentary procedure and you as questioners. In your judgment, my answers may not completely cover you or you do not agree with what I am saying, but I think you should recognise that I am right here, three weeks after taking up my duties, because I honour this process. Has it been heard by some Members that "Why did I choose to participate in this government?" And I would like here to say with full consciousness and absolute sense of responsibility that I accepted the Prime Minister's invitation and suggestion that I should be part of the government because I believe that at this juncture our country is turning a page and moving forward, there is a need for a wider collective symposium of all those forces that we believe that this new course of our country can have a progressive sign. That is why I am participating and I will try to do my duties in the best possible way, and of course will be able to achieve such a prospect for the future. There are specific things that have been heard. Some people said, I think Mr Dendias mentioned it, 'why do you mention neoliberalism?', when, of course, your own Members spoke about a difference of ideology, ethos and political views. I referred to this, because that's the reality. What Europe has lived through, what all the countries that were under commemorative programmes have experienced, was a key pillar in depreciation and horizontal weakening of public administration, and that is a reality. Public administration in our country had a decline horizontally, without a specific qualitative perception, analysis and strategy, which is close to 20%. All three questions you raised, because I don't want to leave anything unanswered. First of all, for the institutional framework and the laws that are being implemented, I believe that it is an institutional incision and I do not believe it alone, it is not just the government that believes it. It is the designation that we also receive from the European institutions and from our partners, because they see an effort. Unfortunately, Mr. Costas Scandalidis left, with whom I have an old friendly relationship. I would never level, and I do not think anyone in this Chamber wants to level anything positive, so in my first speech I mentioned institutional areas that have happened in the past. And I really think that we are coming at every juncture and with the needs of the juncture to make changes and move forward. And if this is a time when there is a major administrative reconstruction and institutional change in public administration, it is after this huge crisis that has taken place in Europe and our country and which we must come to implement, no matter how we approach it ideologically and politically, a reconstruction plan. I'm saying that because the general thing has been said. And if I mentioned, Mr Dendia, on the subject of Mr Mitsotakis as Minister for Administrative Reform, I did not do so because I wanted to get away from the questions, but why also in the text of the question and in the positions of Members of the New Democracy? Characters have been heard about sit-ups, characterizations have been heard for quartzing, deportation of the state, for a lush state. So I answer that, and I say that there is a need for attention here when you are present, because there are specific issues from the past. So when we have now completed eighty-six judgements of directors of all the ministries - and this has to do with the question you are asking - with full cooperation and supervision of the AACC, when there have been ten years when there have been crises in this administration, and we are now moving on to the directors, it has already started, and later to the divisions, since next year. This is an answer to your questions. When you talk about partyism and sit-ins or when I referred to the need for dignity and confidence in public administration, it is not a matter that all the directors-general were placed on one night only. Let me remind you, why you mentioned the laws, that of course Mr. Mitsotakis did it by law, I didn't say it was illegal. It was a law that's illustrated your own policy. As the respective law had the famous comparative assessment, which you yourself were forced under the outcry, six months later, to withdraw it at the end of 2014, which said that a mandatory rate of 15% of civil servants were found inadequate and not theoretically, in combination with the law you had again predicted, no one disputed that you did so with the law, for the famous availability that was driving and leading, as long as you did, to three thousand redundancies. Those laws we changed them. We changed the laws as soon as we became a government, in 2015, for availability and redundancies and then for evaluation. And, of course, if there were intentions and if we were so ruthless as government, we could have changed the directors as well. We did not do so, however, precisely because we respect the hierarchy of public administration and why we do not care what everyone votes for. We care about being a good, worthy and honest public minister. I'll get to three questions. First of all, for the Staff Register, I mentioned before the numbers. Don't get tired of me. I'm not repeating it. It's under the aegis of ASAP. At the moment, to answer the third question clearly, no one has yet been posted on this register, but notices have been issued on the basis of that register.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u89	Just one.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u90	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u91	Lies!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u92	Mr. Georgioda, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u93	I'd say before you hurry, Mr. Georganta...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u94	It's one. I know what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u95	First, let me finish. You can disagree with me, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u96	You've been misinformed. You should testify.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u97	I'll let you know now. I'm not going to testify, but I'm going to report them. Don't rush to say I'm lying. In my political path I have never lied and what I say with a sense of responsibility. Please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u98	I said you were misinformed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u99	Mr. Georgioda, please don't interrupt. Respect the Minister speaking from the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u100	But my question is about Article 8.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u101	Listen to me. Apparently, I've come in good faith to let you know. If you consider my answer inadequate, it is your right to tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u102	We recall the "resent". Reproduction is authorized provided the source is acknowledged.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u103	Well, at the moment, on the third question - and I am very clear - no one has been designated by the register. But at the moment there are sixty-nine plus one notices, seventy-nine. It is the proclamation - and I say it precisely, so that we do not have any misunderstandings - about the National Central Health Procurement Authority. It's one and sixty-nine notices...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u104	No, that's inaccurate.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u105	Please, Mr. Georgioda. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u106	Come on, Mr. Georgioda, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u107	But that's not what my question is about.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u108	Mr. Georgioda, no, the Minister speaks.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u109	Article 8 is the question. Sixty-nine notices concern the question referred for a preliminary ruling under Article 1.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u110	You don't have the floor, Mr. Georgioda.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u111	The notice shall be one for legal persons governed by public law. It's over!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u112	Mr. Georgioda, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u113	I answer in total...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u114	Excuse me, Minister. Mr. Georgioda, why don't you respect the procedure? Were you already up to take the floor without asking for it, without giving it to you, and without respecting the Minister in Stepma? Let the Minister finish. You have a parliamentary representative. Thank God, Mr. Dendias can defend all the issues of the New Democracy. It will respond and dialogue will take place. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u115	There are many ways to find your point.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u116	Come on, Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u117	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u118	Madam Minister, do not open up the dialogue with Mr Georgioda too, because you are taking him a step.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u119	Let him tell me I'm lying.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u120	You continue, Mr. Georgioda. You're welcome, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u121	First of all, I think you said I was lying.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u122	Hey, I'm saying it!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u123	I didn't say anything about you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u124	We're going crazy now. Anything anyone wants to say here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u125	But please, now! Is there going to be a dialogue?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u126	Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u127	That's how they mislead the world.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u128	Mr. Georgioda, leave the Madam Minister alone. At least show that you respect the Minister, who's in the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u129	I think that, ladies and gentlemen, each of us is judged on the basis of the route, its political reason and the way in which the parliamentary procedure is dealt with. So I am very clear and say this in relation to the functioning of this famous Staff Register, which we consider to be an important conquest and we are sure that this register will continue to work in the future. I am not specifically referring to what article is going on. I'm referring to the functioning of the registry. I say, therefore, that as far as we are concerned - to be clearer - the wider public sector and legal entities governed by public law and even though there is the amendment that I, too, referred to first, for six months at the beginning of the implementation of this procedure, there is a notice in progress concerning the National Central Health Procurement Authority. With regard to the correlation between this register - because we see it as a whole - and the choice of the narrow public sector, there are sixty-nine notices, of which the twenty-two should - we have said the procedure, I do not repeat - to be reopened on the basis of the rhythms and the need to go quickly. We will have results there, as we hope and try, and that is the assurance of the AACC by the end of the year. So the register is already fully operational. Now, with regard to these famous announcements and to whether there were problems and some provisions which could be misunderstood, what I said and I believe is that, when you implement a law and an institutional change, it also wants political courage, it also wants you to make the appropriate adjustments. My predecessor had both of them. In fact, he commissioned an external consultant, Expertise France, who did this analysis and suggestions, and that is why we had the new reopenings, which have been completed, the candidates have submitted their papers and are in full progress. From there, however, I have stressed - and this is the case anyway - that, in addition to the figures in the notices, the crisis will be carried out by this special council, under the aegis and supervision of the AACC, with the Vice-President of the AACC, who currently has a table of uniform criteria, the corresponding moleculosis, as well as the structured interview, so that there is no problem. I imagine you've seen it, because you're dealing with all these issues. Mr Matutes, the issue you raised I do not know about. It's about the field of education. I'd be happy to look at it, I noted it to see it. From there on, the issue of SAEP and the figures of candidates, because it comes back and comes back: this is not just the first page. I asked and called - because I had to be informed, I am at a briefing stage - from the Minutes of the House the letter you yourself tabled - there is in the Minutes and that is why I took it - three pages of the AACC's reply to this issue. What I'm saying as Minister of Administrative Reconstruction is that the AACC is an independent authority, responded, responded for its own operation. From that point on, I respect this independence, and I have nothing more to comment on the way the SAAP has worked. I would like to make two critical points, but it is important. When we talk about the growth of the state and various contractors heard about contracts and contracts and 'daily' etc. Because I really want to have all the evidence and I'll give it to you too. Firstly - and I close with these two remarks - you know very well that not only has there been no enlargement of the state in recent years, but we have had a decline but also an ageing state. That is why I would also like to ask a question today, rhetoric, of course, because I cannot put it in the parliamentary procedure towards CSR, because I have heard your Vice-President and President in Thessaloniki speak that he will not respect one by one, which was negotiated by our government and with the full agreement of the institutions, not to increase the state - take note, ladies and gentlemen - but to stop the downhill of the shrinking. That is, one to go, one to enter and not the same place, but where needs exist, such as health, education, "Help at home". The Minister said it. This is where a rhetorical question arises, which I imagine at some point in the public speech must be answered. At a time when, if you go to one by five, i.e. at the hardest memorial phase, as Mr. Hatzidakis said, the irrational forces are barely covered...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u130	The hardest was one to ten. We haven't been there yet. We're thinking about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u131	(Minister for Administrative Reconstruction): You are still in an interim phase, a memorandum. The question is, as long as one to five are barely covered, the irreversible needs, namely the productive schools of the Army, the Security Bodies, the Patent, etc., how are you going to cover them? How will you meet all these needs with which you themselves are supposed to agree? At the same time, you say that you will not renew the contractors and you will dismiss them, even though, not least, all contractors are in procedures of the AACC. So there's an answer left. I'll put it on. You can deny me: further privatization of the public sector with your own perception. I am replying to Mr Teddy because he has somehow criticised me because in a parliamentary procedure I am referring to neoliberalism and the past. Unfortunately neoliberalism is not just in the past, it is also in the future. I shall therefore turn to the Minutes two tables which I imagine are also useful. It is the development of the regular staff of the public administration from 2009 until today that shows a total reduction per year. It's from the census on the Ministry's website. You can cross it. Of course, I am also presenting the equivalent of the contractors, because they were heard about it too. In fact, in order to be perfectly precise, you will see the reduction that has been in place over the last few years to date. [[At this point, Minister Marilissa Xinoyannakopoulou submits for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] In order to make it easier for you to read, I will make two comments and close. We have added the additional contractors to the migration problem and are paid by the state budget with a special indication. To be completely transparent. The numbers to which you are often referring - that you need to adapt and look at - are the ESDP and co-financed programmes that are another process. Even there's a reduction. But in any case, the contractors we are talking about and they are via the AACC and all the transparency process are contractors who are paid for in the ordinary budget. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the opportunity. We will have other opportunities in the future to discuss the critical issues of public administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Minister. Come on, Mr. Teddy. You have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u133	Mr President, thank you. Madam Secretary, we've made something. We are a little tired here in the process, but you have answered the second and third questions. In the second question, with a few voices from Mr Georgada, we have in any case found it. The answer to the second question is that one has been declared by the legal persons governed by public law. The answer to the third question about how many have been covered is zero. These, ladies and gentlemen, have been agreed. The first one was left unanswered. Who are these four brave ministers, the guardians of legality, the Heralds of merit, who for some reason are not mentioned by anyone. We ask why we don't know them. We've heard rumors. They seem to have done their job excellently. Mr. Lappa, they must have done it. It can't be. Ministers of this government have not done so perfectly. That's weird. On the other hand, everyone hides it. Mr. Vorides asked who to deliver. There's no one to be decorated. The Minister has received the answer of the AACC and has been mentioned. What's happened? Mr Georgioda was notified the first page. The names are on the supplement. The supplement has not been notified. We'll find it. Don't worry. Patience now we have.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u134	Come on, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u135	I'm saying this so you don't think we've forgotten. Be honest with us. We know each other now. Four years we've been here together. You're hiding something here. If you were very proud, I don't think you'd hide them so much. Go someplace from here, something from there, no matter how discreet and modest you would tell us something. From there on, ladies and gentlemen, I have this to say: in seriousness and in general terms. There is an obvious effort of this government to institutionalize the state. This government does not have this populist mud that hit the country as a result of the crisis in the functioning of the institutions of a European state. It employs institutions as a body to serve not only the close party interests, but the perpetuation to remain in power. If you would like an example, let me refer to the enormous delay which is also a huge institutional problem in the selection of the new President of the Council of State. Since when has the previous President of the Council of State resigned? How long have you left the Supreme Court headed? Why have you done this? What's going on in the background?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u136	Yesterday he met.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u137	Yeah, I know. That is why I would not have told you anything if it were not timely, Mr Lappa. The prolongation procedure is well known and the incentives to extend the latter are also transparent beyond the horizon - in introductory terms - 'debate'. All this is not appropriate for the institutional functioning of a Western European state. Ladies and gentlemen, the crisis was a great misfortune for the country and for many Greeks. We have lost 25% of our national product, too many people have been in huge difficulty, even to survive, while we have paid for it with huge unemployment and leaving our fellow citizens abroad. It could have been a positive result of all this huge crisis. Modernising, even under crisis conditions, the Greek state machine and the wider institutional framework and approaching the European model of the state, which is supposedly Greece seeks to integrate completely, not only legally through its participation but also essentially through its assimilation to the Western European state, the state that starts its tradition by Enlightenment. I am sorry to say that in the four years that the country has been governed by the alliance between the populist supremacy and the populist radical left Greece has departed, it has not devastated, towards the average European state and is increasingly deviating every day. I sincerely say to you, however unpleasant this in your ears is, it is a blessing that this government's coming departure from power. Its prolongation creates difficult, extremely difficult repairable problems in the institutional framework of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr. Treasury. Madam Minister, you have the floor to close the timely question. You have two to three minutes. I think you've said it all.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we are really in a phase of our country after this difficult period of crisis and the memoranda that gradually regain the room for moves and choices. It happens gradually, but it is very important, because this means that politics is back on track, it means that there are again choices and they are now being raised, not pre-formically, but in terms of political differences, political controversy, which is a health issue in democracy. And one of the reasons that had been reduced and the confidence of the peoples of Europe in general, not only in Greece, in the face of the institutions - either the Europeans or the national ones - was the logic of the one-way. It is therefore healthy for both Parliament and for public life to have different views and of course to try to make compositions and to have good dialogue, because of course everything helps. The good parliamentary criticism is also very useful. The fact that, at the moment, our country is not only deviating, but is converging, Mr Treasury, with the rest of Europe, is not something that we are saying but something that Europe itself recognises. It has to do with the reports, with the resolutions of the European Parliament, it is about what the officials of the European Commission and our partners from the other countries say. Because there has been a huge effort, with great sacrifices, primarily of the Greek people themselves. We respect the institutions and that is why we are constantly trying to improve these procedures. I will not deny that there are also pathogens and problems in public administration and chronic diseases because of the crisis. I have referred to them and I will not repeat them. We'll have a chance to talk about it in the future. It is important on the basis of this experience to move forward. We, for our part, fully respect the independent authorities and the AACC, in all the procedures that have been instituted we want, by the end of the year, to be able to actually show this difference. As we have finished with the Directors-General, to finish with the central administration directors, to proceed with the administrative secretaries and to have this new institutional period with the institutional memory and continuity of the public administration. I therefore believe that in this new era we are deserved as a country and as a people above all, as a European country with a view to a public administration independent, effective, renewed and aged and digital and quality that above all serves the citizen, development and the social state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Minister. The debate is closed at number 3/3/19-9-2018 on the subject of "The Government is attempting the full partyisation of the Public Administration". Ladies and gentlemen, before we finish, I would like to make a few announcements to the Department. First, the MP of the State of New Democracy, Mr Theodoros Fortsakis, seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad from October 1st to October 2nd 2018 for academic reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u141	The House therefore approved the requested authorisation. I also have the honour to announce to the Department that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament, in accordance with Article 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 "Priminal Responsibility of the Ministers", as in force on 27-09-2018: Criminal proclamation concerning the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Nikolaos Kotzias. Criminal proceedings concerning the former Deputy Minister of Economy, Christos Pachta. Criminal proceedings concerning the former Minister of the Interior, Mr Panagiotis Skourletis, and criminal proceedings concerning the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr Kostas Gavroglou. Ladies and gentlemen, I would very much ask the Department to authorize the Bureau for the validation of the minutes of the sittings of the IZ' period, IB', II' and III' of the Summer sections of the House: Meeting I' 17-7-2018, II' 19-7-2018, III' 20'-7-2018, IV' 24-7-2018, V' 26'-7-2018, F' 31-7-2018, G'I' 1-8-2018, I'm 30-8-2018, I'm 6-9-2018, I'm 11'9-2018 (morning), I'll be 11'9-2018 and I' 28'-9-2018.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u142	Therefore the minutes of the meetings of the IZ' Period, I’, II’ and III’s Summer Sections of the Parliament: Meeting I’ 17-7-2018, II’ 19-7-2018, III’ 20-7-2018, IV’ 24-7-2018, E’ 26-7-2018, F’ 31-7-2018, Z’ 1-8-2018, I’ll be 30-8-2018, I’m 6-9-2018, I’m 11-9-2018 (morning), I’ll be 11-9-2018 (in the afternoon), I’ll be in 18-9-2018, I’ll be in 18-9-2018, I’m 20-2018, I’m 25-9-2018, I’ 27-2018 and I’ 28-9-2018 were validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-28-S1-commons.u143	With the consent of the Department at 13.09pm, the meeting for the next Monday, October 1, 2018, at 11.00pm, on the subject of the House's work: a) Communication of the Presidential Decree on the termination of the Third Session and b) Sanctuation to begin the work of the Fourth Session by the Macedonian Archbishop of Athens and all Greece Mr. Hieronym and the members of the Sacred Sacred Session, according to the special agenda distributed.
