ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 8-2-2018 authorisation, the minutes of its O' Session of Thursday, 8 February 2018, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Management of Protected Areas and Other Provisions’]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent question in this House on Monday, 12 February 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 975/5-2-2018 topical question by MP Kosanis of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Theoktou to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject: ‘Legal aid in the cases of Law 3869/2010 and Law 4469/2017’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 998/6-2-2018 topical question by MP Fthiotidas of New Democracy Mr Christos Stakouras to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: ‘An overview of general government expenditure’. 3. PASOK - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Finance, dated 980/5-2-2018, on the subject: "Loss in the interest of benefit from the night-end and increased VAT on the islands". 4. The Question No 1005/6-2-2018 by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Finance on the subject: "To be paid to the former employees of ATE all that is due to them". 5. The question raised by Mr Ioannis Saridis, Member of the European Parliament, with reference to the Minister of Finance, concerning: 'Who is the exact balance of the bank account of Law 128/1975?' B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 999/6-2-2018 topical question by MP Heraklion of the New Democracy, Eleftherios Ausgenakis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Reactions to the new EEA contracts with family doctors: EUR 0.71 per month for each insured person are available to EEA!" 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by number 1000/6-2-2018 of the Member of Parliament's Representation of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Konstantinos Bargiotas to the Minister of Health, on 'When will a National Action Plan against Drugs finally be drawn up and adopted?' 3. The question asked by Mr Ioannis Giokas under number 1006/6-2-2018 by Mr. Atticas of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Ioannis Giokas to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the problems of the students. 4. The Question No 1007/6-2-2018 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Health, concerning the problems of lack of personnel, building infrastructure and equipment at the Hospital of St. Nicholas Lassithi. 5. Under number 948/30-1-2018, a timely question by MP Fthiotidas of the New Democracy, Christos Stakouras, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: ‘Enlargement and completion of the process of repayment of public debts to private individuals’. 6. The Question No 886/23-1-2018 by Mr Athanasiou Bourras to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on "Special arrangement for the affected students of Mandra High School". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP II of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Charulas (Haras) Kafantaris to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The establishment of an Environmental Education Centre (CIC) in Antonis Tritsis Park". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No. 1643/29-11-2017 of the Deputy Drama of New Democracy Mr. Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Appointment of the President of the Department of Oenology and Drinks Technology of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace". 3. Question No 895/2-11-2017 by MP II of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The need to rationalise the number and the minimum amount of payment of the instalments of inheritance, donations and parental benefits". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Today, nine topical questions will be discussed. The first three will be answered by the Minister for Migration Policy, Mr Ioannis Mousalas. We begin with our second question with number 996/6-2-2018. First-round question by the Member of Parliament, Mr Miltiades Varvitsiotis, to the Minister for Migration Policy, on the subject of "Incomprehensible decongestion of the islands of the Eastern Aegean". Please, Mr Varvitsiotis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, first of all I would like to welcome Mr Muzala to Parliament because I have tabled this question since the beginning of January. I've resurrected her, and, uh, three times to come and talk about it today. One time it was not selected, twice deferred. It's the fourth time I've asked the Minister to answer. And I wonder why while a Ministry of Immigration was built and a Minister and Deputy, it is so difficult for someone from the political leadership to come to Parliament to answer. Nothing learned from the example of the British State Secretary who gave up his resignation for half an hour's delay in answering a question? Anything? And, unfortunately, the ministry that was built seems now to collapse at all levels. Yesterday, the Ministry asked the Ministry to pass an amendment extending residence permits and foreign residence permits indefinitely because the Ministry's electronic system has collapsed. We closed in 2017 with the smaller arrivals in the Aegean Sea and the smaller number of immigrants who came to Europe. Nevertheless, the Aegean islands sink into immigrants. Moria has seven and a half thousand people, and she's capable of hosting two thousand worlds. The heating bodies they bought do not do to cope with winter conditions, according to recent reports. Repromotion policy has also collapsed. Only a thousand five hundred have returned to Turkey, on the basis of the joint declaration by Turkey - the European Union. Only a thousand five hundred! Since April 2016, only a thousand five hundred! Today, and the Asylum Service remains head-on. The previous chief's term is over. The contest for the selection of a new one. Minister, I'm going to the islands. I'll be in Moria on Monday. You now go to the islands and nobody agrees to speak with you. Nobody! Go and tell them: "Tourism grows, you have no problem" and the figures we give you in the House show exactly the opposite. Just the opposite! Reduction of charter flights, reduction of cruise approaches. If I am not mistaken, the reduction in visitors is 42% and the reduction in hotels in the North Aegean is 35%. The University of the Aegean has taken up its appreciation. I really want you to tell me - we are in February 2018 - what you intend to do and when you intend to do it. Do not say that the flows are increasing when in 2017 we had thirty thousand arrivals in the country. That argument doesn't work. No more tears are needed, no more apologies are needed. They need actions! You come to the House to tell us what, at last, you have decided to do and how you intend to deal with this situation. Mr Sakellaridis, your former partner and Government spokesman, cannot come and say that the conditions prevailing in the hot spots of the North Aegean and that human rights are being violated. So, please, your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u4	Minister, please answer your question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Varvichiotis, I'm sorry. From your term of office before, but also from the way you develop the questions, I do not think you are really interested - and I have said so before - in the situation of refugees. You're not telling truths. Your question is untrue. The arrivals from June 2016 to today are eighty-five thousand. Ten thousand of the land, seventy-five thousand of the sea. We've done a huge job. You finally recognise that the Europe-Turkey agreement was positive, which until now in your positions here in Greece has been playing, and in contrast to the European Union it was clear. You say 'Welcome me'. Don't do that thing. I'm usually trying to be a human being not aggressive. You lie when you say "welcome me" and I say it with all gravity. When I'm not in the House, it's because I'm abroad. I have said it several times. Your colleagues know that. Proved. You make use of a lie to strengthen a position that you have no arguments to strengthen. The situation on the islands is difficult. Everything depends on the flow. The situation on the islands is also difficult because part of the local society, led by your own people, your own members, your own MPs, your own municipal councillors, prevent any action to improve conditions within the camps, as well as preventing in a unique way our efforts to create pre-regulatory centres on the islands to facilitate returns. To answer your questions, we have transferred thirty - one thousand people into 2017. Thirty-two thousand have arrived. What is said, that we can move from the islands and automatically to the islands will solve the issue, is a lie that you deliberately spread, because people are tired, troubled and even in need of a lie. We're not going to say it. Thirty-one thousand carry, thirty-two thousand come. We are transporting only on the basis of the Europe-Turkey Agreement. Vulnerable and minor. We will continue to transfer on the basis of the Europe-Turkey Agreement, and I hope that, after your current agony, you will help us, so that we do not continue to sue people who are in your hands, that we do not have any obstacles to entering homes, that we can build pre-regulatory centres. I also want to make it up to you, which, I think, you haven't told the truth. What I have to say is that this year tourism on the islands, thanks to the efforts of the government and the local authorities - I do not deny that - has had a very significant increase. But the islands are affected by the migratory flow. We did not deny that. As long as there is migratory current, it makes sense that the islands' tourism will suffer current fluctuations. The attempt we made this year and the Europe-Turkey Agreement have enabled tourism to rise. We will continue this effort. I think it is time to do works and not have things here that will simply prove that the honourable Member or the other Member has defended something that does not exist as he says, but practically it has not helped to build and help the situation on this island.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Minister. Please, Mr Varvitsiotis, you have three minutes for your denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u7	Three things I want to say. First of all, Minister, you are two in the political leadership. The deputy could've come. Unless you have him for decorative reasons. Because in Parliament one must come from the political leadership and answer. Secondly, you tell me whether or not I care about the situation on the islands. Minister, caring in your soul doesn't interest anyone. How you care about plays, it's working. That's why you're Minister. If you don't want to be Minister and you want to be a simple citizen and watch what's happening, go home. Besides, I think that many times you say that you really want to do. So far, with your policy, you don't care. Unfortunately, you don't care! You've failed on all fronts. You don't have a ministry. A year and a half now you haven't been able to set it up. Decongestion on the islands you haven't been able to do. Human treatment for immigrants is not provided. Decent living you don't offer. I have heard you say that for the first time you have heard that we support the Europe-Turkey Agreement. I didn't get it. Since it had been done, we have always supported it and said it is the responsibility of the Greek Government to operate it. Do not make the Greek government a pretext for the disposal of the Turkish authorities. I shall submit the information as the High Commissioner makes it: only 1.531 refunds under the joint declaration of the European Union - Turkey. I'll submit it to the Minutes. I will present to you in the Minutes, Minister, the arrivals again on the basis of the High Commissioner for Foreign Affairs, because your ministry has now lost awareness of citizens' information. For the Eastern Aegean alone, you give us evidence. For the rest of Greece you no longer give information on publicity. You have stopped counting them all over Greece. The arrivals in 2017 were 29.718. It is the lowest number that has come to the Aegean in recent years. Can I talk to you? Because you're saying you care, that you're trying, and so on, to take you to the most sensitive issue, to the issue of unaccompanied minors. While unaccompanied minors are growing with geometric progress today in our country - they are close to 2,500 - the positions you have available for unaccompanied minors are decreasing. From 3,300 we've been to 1,083. I'm not saying it. The National Solidarity Centre says so, a government agency to which you have commissioned this information. You want to tell us where you care about who you care about? The only thing you care about is that you can go to the islands at some point without people being greeted with voices, protests and get you out of the back doors. At least make sure that you go to the islands at some point and receive you as a serious, responsible interlocutor and do not close your doors and say that you are no longer welcome. Why has this been caused? Is it New Democracy? Is the New Democracy causing all these residents? Is the New Democracy causing the mayors of the islands to come out every day against you? Is the New Democracy causing all non-governmental organisations, all international organisations to say that the situation is here and is it not going to happen? The New Democracy? If we were so capable of provoking so much discussion about your inefficiency and inefficiency, then I beg your pardon, you should pay us credit. But we do not ask for that kind of credit. We really want you to implement a specific policy that relieves the islands and ensures what we need, human living conditions, quick assimilation of asylum, guarding the borders as we must, of course, return on the basis of the joint declaration. I'm filing the EKKA's figures in the House. Read it, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u8	Thank you very much, Mr Varvitsiotis. Please, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Look. You are not so capable of at the end of implementing a policy based on international immigration law. You have, however, been extremely incapable of delivering the country fortified against what one predicted would be found. And you, Mr. Varvitsiotis, have read your article at "Kathmerini" in 2014, you predicted it. Nothing. For minors: Three hundred posts were received by the government, Mr Varvitsiotis. Today, we have a thousand seven hundred places for minors and we continue to build. No one, however, should be under my innocence to pretend. Of course, no matter how many places we always make, the number of unaccompanied minors will be very easy - depending on the flow - to go beyond existing positions. If there is an estimate to build twenty thousand positions for minors to be present, suggest it, it is not our proposal. Also, the comitology bill is now being passed, which will give further help to this. But do you know what we're talking about today? From three hundred seats we've reached about seven hundred...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u10	A thousand eighty-three.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u11	Thousands of seven hundred together with the safe zones, which are accepted and discussed at all conferences and prepare and move forward to build another thousand places. Again, however, there will be uncovered and we will still be trying. What has to be made clear is that there is a silencing project, you upload the stone up and always depends on the flow. Let me also tell you something. I don't care about my soul, about my soul, about my soul, about you people, everyone cares. Projects say so. We do too many works in a field where we received nothing. You had seventy thousand arrivals, you had no records, you had only living quarters, you didn't have any piles, you were in the fields, there was a little mess over here. You have established our country as a transit country in international slavery and now you are coming and talking about their human rights. We're defending them. As far as possible with the help of the European Union, we have taken the best practices from the United Nations for the efforts we have done in the interior. We keep trying for the islands. We will support the Europe-Turkey Agreement. We will create these conditions. I told you about the asylum law, various legislations that are now being prepared. Why do you see, Mr Varvitsiotis, what you say'regressions', I imagine, is returns, because'regressions' are illegal. It is the returns, which must be made under international law and international law, that includes the asylum service, where there is an abuse of the right, but we are obliged to consider it ad hoc and individually, and that is why there are delays. We believe that with the new bill these will be resolved.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-two students and students and three educational attendants from the 4th Municipal School of Nikia. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We move on to the discussion of the fourth under No 962/31-1-2018 topical question by the Independent MEP II, Eftathios Panagoulis, to the Minister of Migration Policy, on the subject: "Extended and dangerous the decision of the "left" Government on the cancellation of asylum to the Air Force officer "OZKAYNAKCI SULEYMAN". Please, Mr Panagoulis, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u13	Mr President, the question is not from 31 January. It is from 3 January. However, I would like to ask you to pass on to the President of this House that it is unacceptable that the situation prevails with the timely questions. He can't come to talk after two months. The government will soon have handed them over to Turkey, and then the question will be discussed. I'm getting to the point. It is well known, Mr President, that in July 2016 the Turkish officer Suleyman Ozkaynakci arrived in Greece with seven other officers who left Turkey. One of them had requested asylum and was approved by the 3rd Independent Secondary Committee on Asylum, which, after thorough examination of his case, adopted a multi-purpose decision - I think Mr Muzalas would have been able to read his multi-purpose decision before making his objection - in which he confirmed the judgment of the asylum service to the first extent that the Turkish military has been granted refugee status, in accordance with the Geneva International Convention, namely a third-country national, who, as a consequence of a valid fear of persecution on grounds of political conviction, is outside the country of his nationality and does not wish to place himself under the protection of that country. In particular, the committee, taking into account the assumptions of Amnesty International, international conventions, the European Council and other international organisations on the unacceptable human rights situation in Turkey, torture, misrepresentation, rape, imprisonment and humiliation, and the arrest warrant of the Turkish authorities, has rightly considered that there is a risk. And you come, Minister, before the ink drys - unknown why - and you ask for the annulment of the above decision to be granted asylum to that officer. It seems, Minister, that you have forgotten the recent history of Greece, when refugees from the junta had fled to foreign countries and given us not only asylum, but also travel documents and traffic. You seem to forget that there is a case of a Greek officer who refused to serve the junta, had gone to Israel, had asked for asylum and not only did they give it to him, but they handed him over to the junta and disappeared during the journey. You seem to forget, Minister, that when the "VELOS" arrived in Italy, the Italian authorities welcomed it and granted not only asylum, but also travel documents and many of these officers took a job on various ships. And you came to us every time, to tell us that "we are the left government...". You're not on the left, because the left is humanism, and you don't have any humanism. Let me tell you what will be the end of the eight officers? Minister, one good morning they will disappear from there and the secret services of Turkey will be grabbed. What will happen, Minister, to the eight? Why did you appeal? Why did you annul the committee's decision? Who imposed this on you? I can't believe you woke up for one morning and told Suleiman that he shouldn't be granted asylum.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u14	Mr. Panagoulis, can you come back to your dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u15	Two minutes, Mr. President. This is an extremely serious matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u16	I understand, but we're already in five minutes. You have three more. I'll give you tolerance to your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u17	Mr President, this is a serious matter and our history is recent. Those of us who have lived through these situations have - to allow me - a sensitivity. For these reasons, Minister, you must stop intervening. Do what they tell you. Who? We all know them. You have become a barracksman of now organisations giving orders to the government for many things. For these reasons, Minister, I believe tomorrow, on February 15, which is the case with the Turkish officer and other officers, that you should not intervene rawly so that these people are not given asylum. And I shall end with that, Mr President. It is unacceptable what has happened. The asylum came and as if Yagula were tens of policemen, he was being pushed to the police station where other officers are being held. If you'd alert him, "Be present, Mr. Suleiman," wouldn't he? He was coming. They want to show that they have both the knife and the melon.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u18	Thank you very much. Minister, you have the floor for your answer to the prototype for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u19	Mr. Panagulis, I have a very serious problem. I feel an incredible respect for the history of your family. When "BELOS" came to Italy, I was there. When your brother was there, I was there. Therefore, the respect I feel about the name and the story that wrote the name forces me to keep low tons, but it does not give you the right - in my view - to forget and to tarnish this story. But this is your choice. Each of us is judged by what he says. Firstly, the return to Turkey of the Turkish asylum seekers has been ruled out through legal legal proceedings and has been definitively ruled out. This is being concealed and debated as if they were going to return to Turkey or not, while that is not the risk. Secondly, there was absolutely no intervention. The legal procedure was followed for all eight asylum seekers anyway. This ensures and safeguards the independence and independence of our rightful system and justice, no interference. The exercise of a legitimate right is not an intervention. You said something that, if you weren't Mr. Panagulis, I'd tell you it's a raw lie, but you're Panagulis and I'm telling you it's not true. In the first instance, they were exempted from asylum by a similarly multipurpose procedure. There was no government intervention to any extent. The legal procedure will be completed and it will be done as the legal procedure decides and may for all eight not be the same for everyone. Be like this to one another and so to the other. The Government is concerned, without interference, that this case should be judged at all costs. What for? For the reason that Turkey is a neighbour, it is a country with specific problems, but in which, Mr Panagoulis, we are together in organisations, we are involved in exercises, we are involved in various things, we are participating in European organisations, we are participating in NATO, we have a neighbourhood that creates situations. What could be judged by the government - because I signed a government decision and rightly - was whether it was an intervention or not. He didn't make any intervention. Proof that he has not made any intervention is the different views which are developed and which, Mr Panagoulis, you will allow me to say that you and I are better off leaving it to justice than trying in Parliament through feelings right or wrong to give our own opinion. My opinion is not about the legal procedure, it is not about your opinion either. Let the judges judge.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u20	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Panagoulis, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u21	Mr President, Mr Muzalas has made his decision. I would remind you, Minister, that you had given an interview a while ago, if I'm not mistaken, to Mr. Papachela. And you said there's good evidence that these officers and this one, Suleiman, had taken part in the coup. You should know - there is no need to be a lawyer, Minister - that with indications, I think, and I believe we cannot condemn anyone. You took a position, Minister, in this interview you gave about twenty days ago. What's there to say there's good evidence? And who gave it to you? An unregulated regime that has been conceived, tortured by European international organisations. And you come and tell us there's good evidence. No indication. You saw just the day before that sixty-four Turks were sentenced to life prisons following imprisonment, torture, pre-conflicts. That is why, Minister, the indications, 'I think' and 'I believe', which have been applied in the last few days here, do not apply. These officers were opposed to the regime currently in existence in Turkey and fled to our country. And instead of protecting them, we cross them. And I would like you to answer this: When he is suspended, well or badly - well for you, but badly - after your application for asylum to the Turkish officer in question, you have sent a large number of policemen to carry him, pushing back to the police station that others are hosted. If you'd notified him, Minister, wouldn't he return? He'd be back. Because he feels unsafe here in our country today. For these reasons, Minister, and many others to stop this fairy tale of your government, that you are a left-wing government. Not only are you not a left-wing government, but you are a government "select and take". We also see it these days with a supposed scandal and you are severing faces from the Greek Parliament and you have witnessed hoodmen. You've got hooded witnesses! Would you like me, Minister, to say that I saw or heard, or did the neighbor tell me that the gentleman did this? It is unacceptable what is happening in our country. Mr President, I should like to end by saying this: it is up to the Government to protect the perpetrators of regimes such as Turkey, to host them, to treat them. And because you told me that you were also at "BELOS II", I expected a greater sensitivity than you. You have not made the decision yourself, Minister, to object, appeal. You were attacked. And I'll remind you of something else. When Mr Erdogan was here, neither too much nor too much did the Prime Minister tell him that he would return the eight to the Turks. Instead of telling him that we have justice here, we have democracy, we are the country that taught democracy throughout the world, he told him that they will return. The statements made by the Prime Minister, and what you have done, Minister, are unacceptable. And I know very well that you have been instructed to do so. And you had two streets: either execute the order or say goodbye to the cabinet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Panagoulis. The Minister has the floor for his answer for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u23	I grieve, but this is my case. I don't know what anyone wants to prove here. We started off on a very specific subject. We have had the opportunity, since we have the microphone, to say 'NOVARTIS' too, to say whether the government is left-wing. That's what happens all the time. Everyone's exposed to what he says. I'll say two things very quickly. The Prime Minister told Mr Erdogan that Greece operates a rule of law. The government acts as Greece being - which is - the rule of law and applies the law. Any interference in the legislative procedure is a violation of the rule of law. This cannot be done by the government. Let the questioner or others who deal with it check if they do. I mean, once, the decision will come out. This decision, whatever it is, like it or not like it, is a decision of justice. And that's the rule of law. I won't talk anymore. Mr. Panagoulis, I say it with a good heart. You're exploiting the fact that I have a deep respect for your history. You should show such respect in your own history too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u24	Thank you very much the Minister. We move on to No 2433/9-1-2018 report by Mr Metarakis, Member of the European Parliament, to the Minister for Immigration Policy, on 'Remuneration of Chios residents from damage caused by immigration'. Mr Mitaris has the floor for his prototype for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u25	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I tabled this written question on 9 January and because it did not respond in time, as laid down in the Rules of Procedure, to this sitting. Mr Varvitsiotis raised the general issues of immigration. And I can't comment on something you said. The country was fortified in 2014, given, firstly, the flows that at the time we had and secondly, the level of financing that the European Commission had at that time allocated to the migration crisis. What we had not predicted was that the next government in 2015 and 2016 would open the borders. It was the policy of open borders of your predecessors. And the agreement between the European Union and Turkey - which we welcomed at the first time, although each agreement has both positive and negative points - to stop the high level of flows. And we reached 2017 to have indeed only thirty thousand arrivals, but few,1,550, returns, so the Aegean islands lift a disproportionate burden on your policy. And it is the government's sole responsibility, firstly, to make hot spots gigantic. That's why there's reactions from local society when you're trying to put extra homes in Vial. The Vial that the Municipality of Chios granted you because the first time the local society wanted to put back on the migration. We understand the problem. And secondly, it is the sole responsibility of the government that does not exist before, because you have completely lost your credibility and are not finding any interlocutors to discuss. But I want to talk about something very specific. In Chios, as in other places, as a result of large migratory flows, many damage to family properties, in professional property, to businesses that were next to hot spots and can no longer function. I also present a post of the "CULTI", which speaks of last week, where an Afghan group broke a store, stole the things that were inside and fortunately found by the police after the Viale. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Notis Metrakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The Chios Municipality has made you a document. There is a committee that assessed all the requests and sent them to you. After too many months you have not answered the same question, but you have sent a letter to the Municipality of Chios saying that there are no foregone profits, thefts of money, theft of devices, car damage, housing damage, damage to professional housing. So what's the public coming to do? In other places, of course, you have tabled an amendment. I give you the amendment to Kilkis, I give you the amendment to Lesvos. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Notis Metarakis, presents for the minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In Chios, Minister, the damage caused will you compensate them? How many months are you going to delay the world? When you came to the island a few weeks ago and didn't tell anyone, we read it in the papers, you said the compensation would be paid. Will they be given? When and who? To all these accusations I'm saying, won't they be given? Well, then there's no point in compensation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr. Metarakis. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u27	It is a very serious question, in my view, to which I shall reply. This is necessarily the lead of the opposition and the rhetoric on abandonment, otherwise 'it was fortified'. No fortification! You were making fun of the pussies. There were seventy thousand people. You made the transit country. We went to the European Council and dealt with it. 'Open Frontier', a false proved by 'FRONTEX', by NATO, by the European Council, by the Council of Heads, by the Ministry of National Defence, by everyone for no reason. So you had nothing. An irresponsible country has left immigration and we are trying to treat it successfully, without that renouncing the difficulties. And let me tell you that the City of Chios did not grant Vial. The Municipality of Chios took 750,000 euros for VIAL. Let me tell you that the Municipality of Chios did not grant Souda. He worked with Souda and took too much money for his cooperation with the High Commissioner and the European Commission and the Ministry of Immigration. Let me tell you that we have spent a lot of money to implement the proposal of the Chios Municipality for HSY, which last minute was withdrawn. Let me tell you we'll put houses in Vial. And the ICE Commission with which I believe that you are not wholeheartedly speaking, as you have shown today, as a human being, as a person, as a person, I hope it will cease to be covered. Of course I did. When did I find out? When I was able to leave. And I saw the mayor and I saw the district chief and I called you if you were there to meet us. What can we do? I'm leaving all of a sudden. I'm coming all of a sudden. It's a ministry that, instead of having a desk, has a helicopter and runs. But let me tell you now about the substance. The amendment, Mr Mitaraki, on compensation for the Challenges and Souda, will be tabled within the draft law which will now be tabled in the next few days and which concerns more comprehensive issues of immigration. That's how it happened, if you remember, and with Moria. I would like to say to you that I fully share the difficulties that the people of the Challenge are facing as a result of the migratory flow and the number of immigrants. We'll compensate what's under the law is compensated. What you said a little contemptuously is not the case. I mean, we can't compensate for any foregone gains. We cannot compensate for thefts, which have not been mentioned to the police at the time, and we cannot compensate for damages, which are compensated for the existence of insurance contracts by insurance companies. We are applying exactly the same that we have implemented for Moria. The Halkidians will have all the help, within the limits of the power we can give. We share their difficulties. I tell you that in the next few days the bill has already been filed and it will come to Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u28	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Metarakis, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u29	Thank you for your kind comment on the rhetoric of counterpopulation, but we are talking here about specific data. If you want, you can ask any resident in the Aegean islands, compare 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017. You can see the tables of the High Commissioner for Flows. We are not talking about impressions here, Minister, we are talking about concrete elements. In 2015 there was a flow explosion, although the 2015 international data had not changed. The country was completely fortified in 2014 - I repeat - for the flows we welcomed at the time, for the situation that prevailed and taking into account the fact that the European Union had not decided in 2014 to further exceptional funding for the Member States to tackle the immigration crisis. When Greece opened the borders and these flows were then driven to Central and Western Europe, the European Union was forced to take the initiative, to make the European Union-Turkey Joint Communication and to provide additional funding. I have asked you several times with a request for documents, which I will present today, to show me the paper, which gives the Chios Municipality 750,000 euros for the rental of Vial. I've submitted it to you multiple times, your Ministry's document doesn't exist. I'm going to tell you today and ask you a timely question to discuss it and see it. You've never given me any paper like that before. The municipality gave it to you. The Chios Municipality pays it, the Chios public pays it. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Notis Metrakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This shows that the Hiotes from the very beginning have been welcoming for the suffering people. But we also expected the government to be able to deal with this. I am pleased to hear - if anything has been won, Mr President, since today's debate - that the Ministry of Migration Policy will table an amendment. There is a bill that comes into the Committee on Social Affairs on Tuesday - by chance I will also be the rapporteur for Officerial Response - and I imagine that that is where you imply that you will be tabling it. However, I will testify something else, the detailed practice of the Municipality of Chios, the municipal council, which examined every request from residents, who claim compensation. The Municipality of Chios rejected requests, which were not based on evidence. You know, Minister, what date does this document have? This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Notis Metrakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Will you come in February 2018, ten months later, to table the amendment, which I imagine will take five to ten minutes to write? In other words, ten months, the people of Chios assume that they are very rich and do not need compensation for the damage they have suffered and can wait for you. That's what we say there is no government in immigration. Mr President, for the sake of completeness, I am tabling Mr Balafa's letter, which excludes almost everything from compensation, so they are losing their meaning and the reply of the Municipality of Chios, which explains by what procedure these requests have been certified. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Notis Metrakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much and I expect you to come to committee on Tuesday to support your amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u30	Thank you very much Mr. Metarakis. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u31	We will be given the opportunity to discuss this. There are things that public compensations and things that the public does not compensate. That's what happened to Moria, that's what happened to the Halkidians. The delay is due to public procedures. We are ready, the amendment is being put forward within this bill, and it will pass. And then again. Open borders. In 2015 the situation became this way, because ISIS took Mosul, equipped, dropped the food in Syria, started the biggest migration and refugee current after World War II. And we did it. With too many difficulties, with too many mistakes, with many shortcomings. Seventy thousand years ago. Host positions a thousand. Recorded, asylum no one. Because, you see, the policy of smart Greece was "those who left to go to Europe", which was then paid with the outcry of our country. It doesn't make any sense. Again and again. Here we are, fighting. Anyone who can help will help. Let the others try to get SYRIZA down, because that's what they're concerned with. They're not about immigration and refugee.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u32	Thank you very much, Minister. You answered three questions today. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the House building, fifty two students and students and three teachers from the High School of St. Anargyros. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the educational programme of the "Democracy Workshop", organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty students and students and an instructor from the school of Iera Metropolis Piraeus. The House welcomes you. Next to serve the parliamentary work, Mr Stathakis will answer four questions today. The first question, after consultation with my colleague Mr Syntagakis, with Mr Constantinople, will be preceded. So there will be a discussion on the fifth under number 955/30-1-2018, a topical question from the Member of the Prefecture of Heraklion, in the Communist Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Removing polluting facilities from the region of the Lino-periphery of the Municipality of Malevizion. Mr. Synthrakis has the floor to first.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. I should like to thank Mr Constantinople for granting his post. Minister, for decades now, large private and public fuel and cement companies have chosen the west end of the Gulf of Heraklion in the Linopera of the Municipality of Maleviziou to build facilities. Their monopolistic position in the economy, as well as the facilities they have from all governments and local authorities over time, led to the strengthening of their presence in the region, destroying the natural environment and preventing it from being exploited for the benefit of residents. Even the regulator of Provengos in the 1950s, he estimated that this beach has the prerequisites for organizing it better than the French Riviera. However, it underlined the incompatibility with the Linopera's industrial port facilities. Since then, the coastal zone has developed settlements and tourists, along with the mobs. The incompatible industrial port installations were confirmed and mobilisations were developed to remove them. Since the beginning of 2000, with the mobilisations of Heraklion Maleviziou, the demand for the withdrawal from the Linopera of the Linopera steam power station, of the fuel and cement companies has been made more pronounced. In 2003, a programme agreement was reached between PPC, the Ministry of Development, RAE, the district, the prefectural administration, the Municipality of Gazios, on the basis of which it was agreed to create a new power plant at Korakia Galina, with possibilities for using natural gas, the creation of a second power plant, the gradual relocation of the AIS, and the relocation of all the mooring plants to another location and declassification of the area from biotechnic to a residential and recreational area. In 2013, PPC updates and reaffirms the 2003 agreement with RAE and proceeded to an announcement of forced expropriation of two thousand seven hundred acres in Korakia. What happened and has this design changed today? Why has the government abandoned the idea of the definitive transfer of PPC to Korakia? If that's not the case, let's deny it. But as soon as the meeting you had with the Municipality of Maleviu was held yesterday, you avoided taking a clear position by saying that the conditions are not mature, that we are still at the beginning of planning and when they mature in 2025 there will be public consultation with the local society and we will see. Sounds like the ball on the stand. By then, the privatisation process will be completed, the tsifres will have fallen and the ASI will be fine falling into the hands of private individuals and who moves them from there. The Municipality of Maleviziu is also pleased with the meeting with you, congratulating you. Let each one draw his own conclusions. But why are conditions not mature and everything that has been said before, commitments, programming agreements, expropriations announcement, the people's demand that PPC and polluting units leave there? The above and your overall energy policy make us think that you are preparing privatisation in electricity and in Crete. A shift of the station to Korakia, as well as the distribution node, which channels the current to all parts of Crete, obviously does not interest the business groups concerned. In any case, tell the residents of the area what you're planning. Either you say it now or you say it another time it won't be pleasant for you. So we ask you very simply and the questions are two: will all polluting facilities be removed from the area with a specific study and a timetable? And secondly, will the area be attributed to meet people's needs in recreation rather than to the profitability of the great benefit that means both destruction of the region, environmental destruction and removal of the right to take advantage of the population? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u34	Thank you very much, Mr Symphony. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u35	Let me be very clear on all aspects of this issue. Let's start with the simple story. These facilities were there long before the urban area was developed, unfortunately in an arbitrary way, as you know better than me. Basically, it has three aspects. So today, given that we are starting with spatial planning. The Regional Programme of Crete provides for two things in this area. Firstly, it characterises it as a tourist zone and secondly it recognises existing industrial and other uses, prohibits further development of industrial uses and allows them only to be modernised. This is what the Spatial Regional Plan of Crete says. So this whole matter of being transported abruptly and suddenly does not exist and cannot be done. We must find corresponding sites - that is where the spatial planning is concerned - which will raise the subject of transport. Let's go to PPC's theme. PPC has two functions. One operation is the power-generating station and the second one is the centre that distributes the energy throughout the island. The design and this is clear, it says: This station will be closed, it will be withdrawn at some time as in cold reserve alternative units of Crete, when Crete is connected to the national network. So, on the matter of staying the power plant or not, the decision has been taken. At any time, when the security conditions of the system allow it, energy production will be stopped in the region. This is not the case - and here too it is a question of planning - the distribution of electricity, as the substation and the new substation of Korakia is being used. It is a question of openness to debate the question of electricity distribution. I insist that the debate is premature, because not all the data are available. The third aspect is connections. We are immediately moving the link with the Peloponnese, that is to say it is imminent. All licenses have been issued, the work has been fully licensed. In a short time, once the formal procedures have been complied with, the competition for interconnection with the Peloponnese will be opened. It is an important project, because it solves the problem of the first important project - the interconnection of Crete, with all the positive consequences that this will have. So, from there on, PPC's planning of how to use its polluting plants in Crete is in the first phase. The first interconnection, as soon as it starts, has a time horizon in 2020. The second interface hasn't begun yet. As you know, there are discussions, there is an attempt to consolidate the parallel initiatives that exist for the interconnection of Attica - that is, the IPTO, which is his work, and EuroAsia - to have a common field in which they cooperate, always maintaining the IPTO, a majority of course, at 51%. It is national work, but at the same time international, so we must also find the way in which we join forces and make the project faster and better. The second interface is therefore a later design, that is to say, 2023. So any debate at this stage is premature, precisely for that reason. Because, first of all, there are the designs. There is no way of reducing these times, so we are discussing developments that will take place after 2023. I repeat that the de-escalation of the power station will precede. It will become the first interconnection in 2020. It is therefore an open matter. It is obvious that the discussions that have begun are obvious, that we all want to remove the facilities and de-escalate the pressure on the area and convert the region with uses and capabilities that are both friendly to the development potential of the region and to the inhabitants, etc. In any case - I stress it for a multiplier time - there is a need for spatial planning, local spatial plans, an effort to integrate the region into any solution they want or suggest that it exists.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u36	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Synhronakis, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u37	I think it's a little contradictory what the Minister said. I'll tell you about spatial planning, planning, etc. But they're a little contradictory. In other words, on the one hand, you have operators of the area, who, some years ago, wanted a total decommissioning of the facilities and the production station and the distribution centre - they do not discriminate - to go to Korakia, with everything I said in my prototype, and on the other hand, you come and say 'yes, see what the inhabitants want over a period of time, because there are designs for the production station and not for the distribution centre'. Isn't that what you said? It's these traffic scripts. There are several scenarios available, which are released by the DEDEN. The first scenario is transfer of Attiki-Korakia cable to the Greek-Poorama via Damasta - you know that - and there is also the reaction of the inhabitants of Damasta, which reveals the intention of the DEDAC, which is a public limited company of the state, not only to abolish SA in the Greek-Poorama, but also to use it as a backup unit to bring the cable from Korakia to the Production Station. I mean, we have A.S.A.'s stay. The second alternative scenario, which is what you said, is to abolish the SGEI, but to remain the power distribution hub, which is channelled to all parts of Crete and to retain only as a distribution hub and nothing else. We are concerned and questioned about the linking of the two power stations - Korakia and Linokia - with a cable, which means the perpetuation of the facilities in Linoprams and rightly so, since, according to the Regional Spatial Framework of the region you mentioned, the Linoprams are also expected to close within 15 years and subject to the completion of Crete's electricity interconnection with the mainland. And if the development of planning on interconnectivity issues, combined with the liberalisation of electricity and privatisation, are overthrown - and it is sure to be overthrown - it is a question. The attitude of the "Organization of the Port of Heraklion S.A.", which is responsible for the coastal zone from Ammoudara to Paleokastro, Pantanassa etc. and who has provided every facility in PASOK and New Democracy over time. He does the same today with the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. Willingly over New Democracy and PASOK drafted a master plan validated by a presidential decree, which provides for the creation of a four hundred eighty-mile pier. Where you are now saying that the station will leave, but the distribution hub will remain, there the master plan of the Port Authority of Heraklion provides for four hundred eighty meters. Today's OLE management, which is SYRIZA administration, reacts to any thought of modifying the master plan. Who, then, is right here, or, rather, who should the residents believe? In other words, it responds to the cancellation of the extension of the port facilities to Linoperamas, as requested by the residents. So what's he hiding in this way of the OLE? And be careful, the OAL reacts, and the fuel and cement monopolies for their transport. In fact, they are calling for modernisation of port facilities in Linoperama. And thirdly, with regard to the interconnection issues you mentioned, your Government for the options, the scenarios for Korakia and Linoparta cables, the small and large interconnection with the rest of Greece, has as a criterion - this has proved - the needs and the competitive pursuits of the energy giants and the full privatization of PPC. The strategic cooperation between Israel and Greece - Cyprus, with a peak on the maritime transport route to the European Union, also moves in this direction. To close, Mr President, the JRC's position is very specific: a single state energy operator in the context of social ownership with a national centralised design and labour control, which will ensure jobs with full employment rights, with a power cheap for the people, energy adequacy and production and distribution units located in areas that will not destroy the environment and will not hamper the use of people's needs. In practical terms this means abolishing the Linoperama station. It must not remain as a backup, nor remain the distribution hub. The distribution hub can be made somewhere near the Korakia and can also have a closet dimension, in compact style. We are opposed to both scenarios and to any consideration that the municipality discusses, for example, the inhabitants of Damasa. Furthermore, we are proposing the subordination of the high-voltage distribution network so as to abolish the pillars that are also a danger to residents. And I'm talking about the three networks, the university hospital, Trisso and Katsampa. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr. Synchronous. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u39	I would like to turn to the monopolies and the debate on them. I repeat that these are powerful industrial installations, which have been there a long time ago, before the debate we are having now begins. And obviously, no human in Crete wants to raise a question either to close industrial units that create huge employment and operate productively in the region nor to raise a question of electricity security in Crete as a whole. Therefore, this discussion, "here and now leave all the mob activities and transfer the PPC stations and make them all hotels and nice tourism", as you can see, is far from our logic. I guess it's yours, too. So the issues have an objective dimension. We need to see coordinates, in the light of the interconnection of Crete - that is what it says and there is nothing contradictory - the de-escalation of the station's operation. Step forward - step by step, the degression of this station in relation to other PPC stations in Crete and the final closure of the power plant will take place when the interconnections - which are in the programme - are completed and the energy capacity of Crete is sufficient. As far as the port is concerned, there is no master plan to expand the area. The previous study they had built for the port facility has fallen into the C.E. So, there isn't. The current administration is only to support existing facilities for security purposes, without any further expansion. Therefore, I repeat: Spatial Planning says that in Crete, the existing licensed industrial facilities remain until a place of relocation is found. No new industrial uses are permitted. The area has been characterized as tourist. The energy hub remains with its double standing, as I told you. Firstly, the station will be withdrawn. There goes one. Secondly, as far as PPC substation is concerned, the planning of IPTO and the IPTO is under discussion. We'll see from there and beyond what alternative plans we want. If it can be moved, good. If it is not because of high cost or anything else, it will enter into discussion and consultation with the local community. I conclude by saying that anyone who is currently invoking priorities must put on the agenda the need for there to be for the whole region - as there are the uses and functions that the regional region has done - at the next level the necessary spatial planning to have a real place in this whole debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u40	Thank you very much, Minister. We shall now proceed to the debate on the two topical and urgent questions by Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos. Mr Constantinople, may I also thank you for the priority you have given my colleague, Mr Syntagakis. The following topical and urgent questions will therefore be discussed together: The second question under number 961/30-1-2018 is the second question of the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odyssey Constantinople to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The project to attract visitors to Lake Ladona, amounting to EUR 1,289,618, the project to improve the Pournaria - Kyriou - Myldrias, worth 500,000 euros, is expected to be announced". The sixth Question No 874/22-1-2018 by Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Financing from PPC S.A. the work of improving the street Pournaria - Kyri Bridge - Mynglia, worth 500,000 euros." Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor for your prototype for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I hope that after the five-month workload we will have a solution today, because I have tabled this question for four to five months. Because you have a close relationship with the prefecture and especially with the Lada Lake region - I do not want to reveal more to the House! - I hope that in case of growth you will support the area. Let me speak to you on two issues: the first concerns 100% of PPC. The second is an issue that was at the Ministry of the Interior, which stated incompetence and said that you can answer it. I hope you can. Minister, in the context of the compensatory benefits for PPC in the area of Ladonna, where we have the hydroelectric power plant, we had contacted Mr. Gervos, who had completed this project for three years and approved 250,000 on December 14, 2013. After many procedures - he had to go to the region - the region accepted the money. So, on 14 December we have the decision - the decision is amended - and this money goes to the region to declare the project. According to regional statements, this money was lost, there are no more, PPC took it back. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like some more time. That's two questions. So the first question is this: Is it true what the Vice-President says, that while PPC for this money has made a decision, they have gone to the periphery, PPC has taken it back? The second issue is this: within this framework, the project was included, which you will personally have met why you will have gone. It is the only place to develop both Arcadia and Gortini. You know the area and its beauty. It will essentially help this process. That money is there. In fact, Mr. Regional Director, along with the Vice-President, a year ago - on 5-2017-, they announced the study notice. Today there's not even a call. Have you been informed? We cannot be informed by the Chief of State. Mr. District Officer is not answering our questions. You have responsibility through parliamentary control. So, have you been informed what is going on in these two studies of the procedure? The money isn't there anymore? And if so, why? Is this a regional responsibility? Is it PPC's responsibility? Doesn't he have any money? Secondly, what is going on with the project that will substantially upgrade the region. It is a five-year process, which cannot go any further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr. Constantinople. Please, Minister, for your answer to the prototype for three minutes. You'll answer both, I imagine.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u43	Although Cretan, I've put the clam in my house. I know her very well. I have the impression that it is two projects which one of which joined the Public Investment Programme when you were a State Secretary for Development and which did not then go any further. So, in fact, the non-implementation of the programme - while the money first entered - has to do with not continuing with all the necessary measures that had to be taken, in order to attract visitors, etc. in Lake Ladonna, proceed from the relevant bodies. This was therefore left with a dead envelope in which there was no follow-up. The project was initially carried out by the municipality - if my information is correct - and then moved to the district, since the municipality did absolutely nothing. So while transporting to the region...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u44	You're talking about the project...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u45	Attracting it...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u46	Are you attracting it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u47	The road. Now, let's go to PPC's piece. PPC had approved the initial funding - for the study only - under corporate social responsibility. He did that in 2010. In 2013, he renewed it on the basis of the latest update by PPC, and has disqualified the project. Considers that it has spent a very long time, in which the necessary actions were not taken at municipal level and at regional level, and PPC considered that there is no point in renewing this old story. Both programmes have therefore remained incomplete, and there have been initial funding. I assume it is about a matter of substance, which is the bodies implementing this project, which, for various reasons, did not go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u48	Thank you very much, Minister. Please, Mr Constantinople, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u49	Now, Minister, what can I tell you? The first thing you're telling us about, "I can't answer you," is that the bodies, i.e. the Peloponnese Region, were unable to make use of the money on the Pournaria Street - Kyras Bridge - Mygdalia and ended it. I am so sorry for the region. I am very sorry that this road has been lost. The people will hear it and judge it, as will all of us. Nevertheless, I think it is wrong, even if there were all these delays from the region, because it is not a question of the region, it is a matter of people. Please ask PPC to restore this money with a specific timetable and give these people the chance, and those who live, and those who think they can go to invest that money there. Secondly, I understand from the information I have had from Mr Haritsis on the second issue, there is one issue. This money has not been lost and has not been disbursed by the Public Investment Programme. That's not what this is all about. This is important, because if it has been disfellowshipped because the procedure has not been done, we are talking about absolute weakness. A major project was lost by weakness of the district and the municipality. So I would like to ask you directly, Minister, this: has the second one been cut off?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u50	You have to ask us a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u51	It's a symptom of Mr. Haritsi's presence.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u52	No, to God! I was just saying you might have a briefing, Mr. Haritsi, because here...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u53	Don't get confused now, Mr. Constantinople.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u54	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u55	We found the ministers here and we'll ask them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u56	So the Minister told us about the first project, it was overdue. Please, I'd like an answer...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u57	I can't answer you today. Let's see it and I'll answer it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u58	... despite the regional responsibilities, as you said, on this issue: Can PPC back this whole effort and give a second chance not to the region, but to the citizens? What remains is to ask Mr Haritsis - I will ask him - whether he has endured this work and informed the people of Arcadia about this, unfortunately, bad development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u59	We'll answer you, Mr. Constantinople.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u60	Since we're here, we can have the conversation! Minister, Mr Stathakis, you have the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u61	I have nothing more to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u62	Aren't you going to be a second-guesser, Minister? Aren't you going to answer if you can help?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u63	I have nothing more to add.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u64	Mr President, isn't the Minister going to do a dentist?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u65	Oh, no. It's recorded in the Minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, forty-three students and students and four teachers from the 6th Katerini High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We continue with the seventh under No 752/8-1-2018 topical question by MP I Piraeus of the New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: ‘What goals has our country caught in the battle for climate change?’ Here you go, Mr. Katsafandos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u66	Minister, I am pleased that we are finally discussing this question, because I believe that the issue of climate change is not just about the ecosystem but about society, about the economy, about the future of each society. It is therefore a pretext that the Paris Agreement on Climate Change should go through at an increasing rate of implementation. Within the framework of this agreement to address the consequences of this change, our country has set certain targets for 2020 and for 2030. For example, it is the 4% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 and 16% by 2030, the rise in total energy consumption by 2020 and by 50% by 2030, the increase in energy efficiency by 20% in 2020 and by at least 27% by 2030. My question is about the Prime Minister's presence at the beginning of December last year, where he presented himself with certainty and said that all these targets for 2020 are sure to be caught and that it is very likely that we will catch and achieve the 2030 objectives. So, Minister, we are asked whether you are sure that we will be able to cover the energy consumption of our country from renewable energy sources by 20% by 2020. How do we get such a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, when - on the occasion of Mr Syntagakis' previous question, we talked about the interconnection between mainland Greece and the island regions through PPC - there is still no clear planning? I do not believe you think that 2020 will have a connection between the Peloponnese and Crete. Because at some point we should be honest and say things with their name. If you think that will happen, I would like an update on the programming for the other islands - for the Dodecanese and so on. - whether this programming is progressing at normal pace and, finally, where the money will be raised so that all of this can be completed. I would like to ask you - specifically questions and allow me a second, Mr President - what is going on with electricity in the country? You've been through a law. I would therefore like to see whether the question of electromobilization is going on in our country. I would like to talk to you and tell me what you are doing in alternative forms of fuel. Finally, I would like you to tell me why there was all this delay with the 'Economy' programme which could help with the energy efficiency of the country, so that we could be closer to the objectives we have set ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u67	Thank you very much, Mr Katsafandos. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes to answer the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u68	I'll start with the designs and where we are. We have signed the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and we are from the countries that are promoting the idea in 2020-2030 the targets that will enter the European Union for climate change and are about how energy is produced and how we have made energy savings so far by 2020-2030, to be high the targets and binding on countries. Therefore, as part of these commitments, Greece concludes in 2018, such as the Agreement with the European Union, long-term energy planning, which refers to both these pillars. It will have the quantitative objectives and at the same time the tools and the policy with which we will implement it. On the second issue, the RES and where we are, I would like to say to you: according to the RES today we are at 16%. We have exceeded the 2020 target, which was 14.1%, which was the intermediate target we had. So with regard to RES production and the specific weight they have in our energy mix, in the way they are calculated, we are going well, and that is why we are also setting ambitious targets for 2030. In this energy mix the RES today is 29%, so we believe that a target close to 50% - ambitious for 2020-2030 - will be realistic. Where is the progress we have made expected? I will invoke the most systematic imprint that has been made by the International Energy Agency. Recently, Mr. Birol came to Athens and submitted the report. The report has accurately illustrated the progress that has been made and, in particular, in recent years, in achieving these objectives. With regard to energy savings, which is the second pillar, we did two things: The interim programme, when the 'Security II' had several delays, as CENAC had to change and the new Europeans had to be built on European standards. A new platform, new consultation with banks, etc. had to be built. We have drawn up the interim programme with which we have covered a large number of applications, about six thousand if I remember well, for the transitional period. Apart from that, the new 'Enforcement at Eikolon II' was signed yesterday by me - and I suppose Mr. Haritsis will sign it today - and the end of February begins the programme. In addition to the 'Economie Economy', however, I should like to stress that, with Mr Haritsis's initiatives, we have achieved a favourable funding for energy upgrades in public buildings. If my information is correct, along with the EIB in the summer, we can have a huge 2 billion-dollar agreement, which will be the big public building upgrade programme, which will be a second important tool in the fight to save energy. And I repeat, while in the RES Greece is going well - we have achieved the goals and we will achieve ambitious targets - energy savings, in the second pillar of European policy, we are back and we must speed up. I'm coming to the electromotion: We've started cowardly the first programs. The TEDO has a ready plan for the development of electricity on the islands. In this context, it will promote the development of public charging infrastructures in public areas. The proposal of the TEDDIE includes two phases: First, the installation of up to a hundred and fifty charging infrastructures on Greek islands in 2018 and 2019 with a budget of 1 million and a budget of 1 million to a thousand five hundred infrastructures in Continental Greece in 2019-2020 with a budget of 10 million. That's the first phase. At the same time, the creation of an incentive for private facilities and attracting private investment. I'm closing with the connections. It is true that the connections between the islands and the islands have been received in a regime in which they have been established for many years, have never been completed and so on. But because we are a much better government, as you know, we have speeded up things. I am pleased to say, first, that the Cyclades I have completed. Secondly, as regards the interconnection of the Peloponnese, which we found at a primitive stage, we matured the project in a year and a half, we took environmental authorisations and so on. Cyclades II was a very long plan. He has matured studying and investment, also in times of fantasy record, compared with what was happening. I would remind you of the Cyclades, I think it was nine to fifteen years. Contrary to this, our government has probably improved things, because in two and a half years, two and a half, projects which were fantasizing colossal I think have gone ahead. IPTO is in a different phase, as you all know. We are therefore optimistic that, in the connections between the good footprint of the government in the country will also be validated.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u69	Thank you very much, Minister. Here, Mr Katsafad, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u70	Allow me, Minister, to begin with what you have finished with. As far as the government is concerned, this will be judged by the people. As far as the connections are concerned, you told me nothing about the Dodecanese and certainly you cannot commit that 2020 will have done the work for Crete. That's the only given thing. I am glad that you have given me your answer to some of the issues you see we are in agreement. So let's see what we agree on. First of all, we agree that we're too far behind in what's about electricity. Unfortunately, in everything that's got to do with electricity, we're moving at turtle rate. For example, I will mention this again. You voted for a law, No 4439/2016 with which we incorporated the relevant Community directive. Isn't that right? So in our country today there are only three hundred ninety-seven electric cars. Of all these public infrastructures for charging devices you said, do you know how many they work today? Three since 2016! So you can't see that you've achieved things to do with electricity. You haven't achieved anything. As far as it is concerned, Minister, also the announcement made by the Prime Minister on his inability to increase VAT in relation to the islands, we have brought the transport equivalent back to discussion. This is something that the opposition parties were always invoking when they wanted to go up to the government and say about the equivalent of transport and how we will reduce transport costs and all that. Except that it is your job to increase 10% of the ticket tax, the transport equivalent could work best if it could be converted into LNG of all these ferry ships. This could create terrible help and everything that has to do with the environment and what it has to do with the economy and what it has to do with the reduction of tickets. In conclusion, Mr Minister, I will express my reservations and my concerns, because I believe that the programming you have put in relation to the connections with the islands is incomplete. What it has to do with the program "Security Finance", we have again agreed. I can't understand why you've been late for so long. I think it was necessary. You came back and said Mr. Haritsis was able to get through a program on what's to do with the state buildings. I do not think you will be taking up the six thousand applications that have been made over the three years that you have been governmental. You spoke of six thousand applications. I therefore believe that this is not a matter which can enter party and political controversy, but an issue that concerns society as a whole. We must inherit a better environment in future generations, because we are not environmental managers. So I think we should pay more attention to all these areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u71	Thank you very much, Mr Katsafandos. Minister, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u72	First of all, I agree with the concerns that perhaps we are a little backward. We haven't made the whole range of tools and we watch closely to see how we can make some decisions. I therefore think that in the context of the debate on the national strategy it will be one of the issues on which we will be able to reach sustainable initiatives which have an impact. I would like to remind you that in addition to the islands' connections, which are strategically chosen, there are two other issues which will greatly improve the energy situation of the islands. The first is the institution of the energy communities that we have built and which has great acceptance especially of the non-interconnected islands, as it paves the way for important local energy production initiatives with RES from the local community and with great potential to take steps that have so far not been possible or have not been taken. The second is the initiative that we have taken together with the Energy Directorate of the Commission for important pilot projects on Greek islands with fully autonomous energy systems on islands that are either not in the planning of interconnections, or which will delay the existence of automatic energy systems by exploiting all new technologies for energy storage. It is a very important initiative that will also have a serious impact on the islands. I share the cross-party nature of strategic options on energy. So I was always joking about how good a government we are. Besides, I would never have done it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u73	Thank you very much. I think it was understandable. Next is the third with number 970/2/2018, a top-stage question by the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.MAR.Michael Jeleighis to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "Reimbursement of producers - EBZ Reconstruction Plan". The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development, Mr. Alexander Haritsis. I know that this is a matter that has been hurting for three years. Here, Mr. Jelloney, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr President. Yes, it is a long way from the sugar industry. And for one month now, Minister, I have retabled the timely question four times to discuss it today. In fact, it is not just to have a debate on when only the customs producers will be repaid, but I resurrect it at a crucial point in time, as the new growing season should have started. You are three years of government and unfortunately every year at the same time these three years we are in the same spectators' work. Unpaid producers are invited to enter a new growing season without having paid production for the previous year, without knowing what the future of the Greek industry is. Because the inconsistency of words and actions on the part of the Government, unfortunately, is at the expense of industry and is the worst of Greek customs producers. Since November, there have been promises of "sweet Christmas". Today we have 9 February and yesterday you have succeeded - and that is why you have come to the House today - after a year of cultivation to give 40%, that is, 4 out of 10.2 million, due to the three thousand customs producers, but not knowing how to get into the new crop year and what the future of the sugar industry is. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] On the other hand, there is an indebtedness on the part of the administration with acts of leniently anti-democratic, trumpets, I would say, by members of the administration who find them the worst. And instead of taking immediate action and you yourself dismiss Mr Chapara - a member of the administration - was - you wait for twenty days, after he has devoured the unpaid customs producers, to resign so that you can go out and say that 'we will make it acceptable'. When will the remaining 6.5 million to be paid by the customs producers be repaid? And how will you gain the confidence of the customs producers who must now enter to cultivate this time period by the middle of March, when the CEO makes a statement yesterday to the customs producers asking them to show interest by those who want to grow? What kind of show of interest to do? Now the sugar beet should have been sown. Eventually, instead of the restructuring of the industry I would expect to hear, will I expect to hear your views on whether we are now going to make the industry from productive industries into a commercial activity and enter a tombstone in the cultivation of sugar beet in northern Greece? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u75	Thank you very much, Mr. Jelloney. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Jelloney, I'm really surprised. I am surprised that you are here as an honourer for a case as if it had arisen over the last three years, as if we did not know what was happening in the sugar industry over the last three years. If you don't remember them, I'll remind you: Starting in 2015, when we received the government, how many factories in the Greek Sugar Industry were open? Zero! Repeat, zero! I'm also going on with this. How long have farmers been unpaid? Three years were unpaid by farmers from previous years and from previous administrations. The effort initiated in 2015, Mr Jelloni, which continues until now, is an attempt to save a very important industry for the primary sector in northern Greece, but - I would say - for both the country and the entire Greek economy, an effort that unfortunately had to run on the ruins left by the previous governments. And because you have used, as I have said, some expressions, such as 'inconsistency', 'in the same spectators', 'invasion', etc., I would say - and if there is indeed a genuine interest in the course of the Greek sugar industry - that we are all a little more measured when we know what the past is. And the past, Mr Jelloney, starts with the well-known story, the well-known case of the sale of the Agricultural Bank, which has had too many consequences. One of them was that the public lost very important assets, like the Greek Sugar Industry. Another consequence of this procedure was the fact that the Greek industry of Zecharis, in the way it went after its operation, is essentially without a owner who can develop a strategy. You know that shareholder, by a vast majority of more than 80%, is the clearing company of the old agricultural sector, which cannot and cannot formulate a strategy for the future of the Greek Sugar Industry. We and this is where we intervened. This period is now under way for the first time, in cooperation with the creditor bank, a study on the viability of the business and its result is expected to be delivered very soon - in February - precisely to see what the real potential of the company is, what the industry's potential is and what can be done, so that in fact this very critical industry remains active, to remain alive for both farmers and workers, but also for the whole, I would say, of the Greek economy. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] At this point, I would also like to reply to your first question, because I do not want questions to be answered in relation to farmers. I said before that in previous years we had three years' delays. Of course, we would like there to be no delays for one day and the effort being made is continuous so that we can solve these problems precisely. You said yourself that yesterday there was a very positive development. There was a partial repayment of the producers with 4 million and the remaining amount up to 10,2, which is their payment for the 2017 campaign, will be repaid in the next period as soon as the company can sell the quantity currently available in its warehouses. But there is something else to be taken into account here. You are well aware that the general situation - and I mean on the sugar market - is not favourable, and that is not about the fact that the quotas in question have been abolished from 1-11-2017. So it is - and this is the work of the administration, and it is doing, as I know, these days - to find buyers who will buy this quantity at a price that will not be detrimental to the viability of the industry. This process is under way. It will be completed in the next few days and the full repayment of producers will proceed. In conclusion, what we have said is valid in full. It is the government's strategic choice to support the Greek Sugar Industry in all possible ways. This is something that farmers and workers are very well aware of. There has been a systematic effort over the last three years which has brought tangible results. The aim is to make use of all the possibilities that this very important industry has. And I would point out here that in recent years there has also been a process of discussion with interested strategic investors from abroad, because the Greek Sugar Industry, despite all the problems that have been inherited from previous governments and previous administrations, remains a very powerful brand name internationally. We will therefore proceed to all the necessary steps to ensure its sustainability and to play its part, a very crucial role for the primary sector of the country and for the Greek industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u77	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Jeleigh, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, since you referred to the sale of the Agricultural Bank, we have repeatedly called for a committee of inquiry to stop invoking this issue at a time. Why don't you do it? Why don't you go ahead, as the Democratic Reconciliation has requested, under the control of everything? So you can't hide anymore. I stressed that you are three years of government. What did you do? You even used the liquidator - and you did well - at the beginning with the first legislative act to strengthen the Greek Sugar Industry with a future capital increase when you gave the 30 million. I have come and asked if you have ensured the European Union's approval, whether it was state aid, and whether it was in line with European competition. Then you said 'yes'. Did you increase the share capital to boost the industry? Oh, no! How did you justify the 30 million? With a new loan. As the President-in-Office of the Council told me, this was a major mistake and a crime. This is why, at the moment, industry cannot even be financed against the sugar production it has through the creditor bank. We are listening on the other hand - and we are being heard by producers - that there is a great deal of interest on your part in the resolution of this polypath - I agree with the industry. And not all the factories were closed. The two were energetic. And Platy and Orestiad. And if you want, we should analyse in a debate what has happened since 2006, when the two factories in Larissa and Xanthi first closed down for the first time, and what has happened now over the last three years. What resolution plan have you done these three years? And how could you, Minister, when you changed five administrations in these three years? Every six months we have a new management board in the Greek Sakharou Industry. How can any planning be done to bring the restructuring to fruition in industry so that we can take advantage of the comparative advantage that this industry has in the Balkan region when it is the only almost sixty-five million people? What programmes are you telling us now that this will be done in connection with the restructuring and restructuring of industry, when we heard this and in 2016? In fact, then, you said that you had made a deal with the creditor bank. What you were blaming and saying at that time, "profit-making stock capital", now invoke them and you say "we'll bring foreign investors". In what direction and production will industry be in 2018? I ask you: will it work? And how will it work when we have 9 February and by the end of the month the sugar beet has to be grounded and you have no confidence in the customs producers? In fact, the wrong policies and practices on the part of your Ministry with the repetitive changes in the management boards of industry lead to depreciation of logging in our country and tombstone the Greek Sakharou industry. And don't tell me that you and the associated aids that were received the other day. This has been guaranteed by the previous government for five years from 2015 to 2020 and not one euro has been added, not even to the interim agreement this year. That's all you found. And because there was the link that was approved by the previous government, at least today the customs producers will not enter the market in relation to the cost of production. To conclude - and I thank you, Mr President - I do not want to believe that since there is an attempt in northern Greece to sell the name of Macedonia, it is not a match to the sale of the productive, dynamic industries of northern Greece. Because we in Serres County have another witness. The sealing of the tomb on the hill Casta in Amphipolis by this government that many reasons are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u79	Thank you very much. Mr Alexandros Haritsis has the floor for three minutes for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u80	Honestly, Mr. Jelloney, your impeccability gives me a terrible impression.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u81	Yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u82	Honestly! You appear here as a prosecutor and an honor, when you led a very important industry...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u83	Three years you've been government. Tell me what you're gonna do.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u84	Mr. Jelloney, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u85	I didn't interrupt you. Don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u86	Not that look...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u87	You tell me why the Greek sugar industry cannot be financed. The Greek Sugar Industry cannot be financed, Mr. Jelloni, because on your day and on your governments, the loan to your administrations was detonated to 165 million. That is why the Greek industry of Zacharis cannot be financed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u88	Which governments?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u89	Don't interrupt me. I haven't interrupted you for a moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u90	Mr. Jelloney, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u91	Also, because you want to have a type of debate like this, let us know, because farmers are listening to us, and the workers are listening to us, and the people of the regions that are heavily dependent on this very important industry, that in December 2017, following the actions of the administration, a seven hundred-page report has been issued which refers to former administrations, before 2015, for infidelity because they were selling sugar with credit, with no guarantees of EUR 52 million. With such actions, Mr. Jelloney, we have reached the present situation. So, when you come here to have a debate on the Greek sugar industry, first you and the political area to which you belong - I am prepared, if you want to have an integrated debate on the strategy that we need to have for this very important industry - to make his self-criticism about how we got to the current situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u92	They don't touch our space, they touch the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u93	Mr. Jelloney, please don't have a dialogue. Let the Minister answer. You had your denture for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u94	We are interested in what will happen in the future, and we are talking about a resolution plan in these very difficult conditions that you have inherited us. For the first time - I said it before - these days an integrated study is being carried out, which will give us just a full picture of what can be done, how the Greek Sugar Industry can move forward below. I want to send a message to both farmers and workers. This year the Greek Sugar Industry will produce more than it had last year, as it had more last year. There is a systematic and continuous improvement in the sizes each year. We do not know the reality, as you did. We know things are difficult. We are in constant contact with both farmers and workers. We are trying to find a solution together so that this industry remains alive and plays its part. In any case, however, what we will never do is return to past practice, which led to a dead end to the Greek Sugar Industry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u95	Thank you very much. If I may - I have dealt with this - I want to say that a solution must be found. It's a huge industry. Mr. Jellonis is right. But the government is trying to build the company so that it's healthy. It's not just debts. For the factories in Serbia you know them very well. All the old things created huge problems. I had fought with Mr Lafazanis in the committee - you remember what had happened at the time - to give 30 million. Do you remember where the money was given? They were given debts, invoices between Serbia and Greece. There's a lot of effort going on. And I think we all have common interest in staying and becoming a giant sugar industry. Because if we import sugar of three hundred thousand tonnes a year, we will be destroyed. That is what I am saying and thank the Minister very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u96	Anyone who wants to pay responsibilities...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u97	We don't pay lip service. But we're saying there's a problem. The 165 million could not be restructured with the clearer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u98	I am speaking to you personally, as a competent Minister, and I tell you that we have been more involved in the last year by the Greek Sugar Industry. I'm telling you, and I'm saying it publicly, to record it everywhere. There are huge diseases, huge problems with this industry, which we are trying every day, in cooperation with farmers, with workers and the creditor bank to resolve them. But that is not easy from day to day, given the situation of which we have been inherited.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u99	The restructuring of the 165 million - to say a little - is not an easy case. The debt needs to be weighed, so that the company can be viable.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u100	We are listening to your position, in relation to everyone's anxiety about the future of industry. I would like a commitment from you. The next week, which we are going to use in the Committee on Production and Trade, to have a debate, because this is a crucial point in time. Producers must make a decision within the days whether or not to grow. It's not just promises. To discuss in the Committee on Production and Trade what commitments might be made, from the industry and the Government, in order to gain their confidence and re-production.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u101	We will violate the procedure, but it is important. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u102	I understand that. Forgive me, too, but really, it is a matter that has really dealt with us so sincerely all this time. I said before, in my prototype, Mr Jelloney - and I will repeat it now - that one of the main problems which have arisen, unfortunately - and this is obviously not reproaching you, but has to do with the way in which the case has been managed in the past few years - is that, at the moment, the public is not the main shareholder of the Greek Zacharis industry. You know that very well. Nevertheless, we are trying in cooperation with both the clearing company and the creditor bank to find a solution together, although it is not an issue, which we can manage on our own. But I accept what you say and I respond to your request. And I say we organise - and the Bureau hears - a debate in the Committee on Production and Trade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u103	To get all the parties their responsibilities.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u104	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u105	To make the proposal from Mr Jelloney and the government will follow.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u106	I respond to Mr. Jelloney's request. However, we must have a substantial debate. It is a very serious matter, if you like, for us to take care of it - in communication games and crowns. To have a substantial debate about what the future of the Greek Sugar Industry can be and what the proposals are, so that the workers and farmers know the opportunities that exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u107	Thank you very much, Minister. We move on to the next question and apologise for the delay, Mr. Carras.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u108	I watched with interest.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u109	Thank you very much. Here is the third question, number 981/5-2-2018, on the second question by MP II of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "The need to extend the validity of a positive judicial decision on “superior natural persons” issued at the request of the protagonist and in favour of his obligors and guarantors." It's an important question. Thank you, Mr. Carras. Mr. Karras has the floor for his prototype for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u110	Mr President, thank you. On the subject of the question: 15 days ago - a good time - we were discussing with Mr Papadimitriou again issues of overdeclared households and extrajudicial machinery. During the placement, as expressed by Mr Papadimitriou, the Government is committed to protecting the first home from the auctions. And further as far as the first residence is concerned, the guarantor can join the law of Katseli. So what does that mean to me? That the guarantor should always follow his own autonomous fate in relation to a housing loan received by a third party. In relation to a housing loan, which went to guarantee conditions, time and economic, different from the current ones, where a substantial change in the data has now occurred. And without any protection, we will see the following: the first debtor, who may need to be protected from law, and the guarantor still owes the entire debt to the credit institution and to obtain that advantage - and here I shall speak over time - which is provided by civil law from Roman times; that the guarantor is never liable to a higher amount than the first debtor's liability, here will be called upon to pay the difference. Therefore, Article 12 of the Katseli Act on overdue households mentioned - and I call it, Mr President - that the credit institution may turn against the guarantor, irrespective of a court ruling on the first debtor. I therefore think that in relation to Article 12, as in 2010, the Treaties have changed. Because then, few were seeking protection or receiving protection. Today, everyone is looking for it because of the change in economic conditions. I think, therefore, that - and this is my question to the Minister and the Government - that the decision of the Katseli Law should be extended to the one who has been subject to and managed to protect both the co-pilots and the guarantors and with an explicit provision to amend the existing legislative regime, so that the credit institution can also commit itself to the co-pilots and the guarantors to apply the judgment rather than threatening it. Because we have reports from the last few days: 'and loan guarantors in the ward of seizures and auctions'. So I think it is a matter which is crucial and which is why I am addressing parliamentary scrutiny to get the answers. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. Carras. The Minister has the floor for his answer for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u112	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Carras, I am sure you will not be surprised by my answer to the question you have raised in various forms, at least twice and also discussed in the extrajudicial mechanism.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u113	I did not have the honour to reply before.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u114	I would therefore like to inform you that according to the law on overdue households, everyone can ask for their debts to be adjusted according to their own economic potential. Consequently, placing the primary debtor in that law does not prevent the guarantor from asking for his or her place of business and achieving conditions of regulation, even more favourable than those of the first debtor, if the guarantor is in an even worse economic situation. With this in mind, there is no need for a fair extension of any debt adjustment of the primary debtor and for the guarantor. This would automatically benefit the prosperous guarantor, in the event of a first-phase question, even if the creditor had foreseen a future question for the first-time guarantor and had granted the credit with a view to the good financial situation of the guarantor that is maintained. Furthermore, a self-justified extension of the arrangement to the guarantor would lead the courts to determine the arrangement of the first debtor on the basis of the financial situation and the guarantor. In this way, there is a risk that a particularly high monthly payments for the first debtor will be identified in case of a prosperous guarantor and that the first debtor will be completely exposed, when the guarantor, by indifference or even vengeance, proves to be inconsistent. For these reasons, therefore, I would like to say that we do not intend to legislate on a self-justification extension of the primary debtor's regulation in favour of the guarantor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Carras, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u116	I have to say this: the Minister's argument that the financial situation of the guarantor or the debtor in order to regulate the debt of the first debtor is not legally accurate, for the reason that it is currently a matter of different legal proceedings. I did not ask the guarantor to be held responsible, I asked that the principle of law be respected, that the guarantor should not be called upon to pay more than the first debtor pays. That is what I have asked for and, if you want me to continue, I will say this: the guarantors, usually, Mr Minister, are not prosperous in housing loans. It is a mistake, which you mentioned, because the guarantors are either the parents or the friendly couples, who were invited to help the one who asked for the housing loan, who has given the warranty. While, on the other hand, the guarantor, who has shut down - and I will say it with a characteristic expression, Mr President - a 'blank date' in 2008 and 2009, when he comes to the bank with the well-known 'to put a signature for my friend', he does not know what is being reserved for him. When we leave today the guarantors or contributors to the courts, that is where the matter is really going: Firstly, do the courts have the power to send thousands of guarantors to seek protection? Does the families of the guarantors today have to bear these costs? They are political questions and you should answer them, Minister. I'm going further. Why should we always work for the banks? That's what I have to say. And I see, unfortunately, that it is the government's perception! So I'll remind you of this. When the third memorandum was discussed and the contract was made for Greece's financing in the summer of 2015, it was established - and you have not given me this information, although I have repeatedly asked for those amounts, which would be written off red loans, so that they can extinguish their balance sheets. What comes today - I believe that this Bureau, because of its involvement - in the Katselis Act, leads to reform even the balance sheets of the banks, where that amount is recorded in the damage between the original debt and the amount, which the court determines, is recorded. While we have taken these figures into account since 2015 - because I must remind you that the appeal cases pending are old - for the capital adequacy of the banks - which will be deleted - the government is coming today and I am told that I am leaving the guarantors to their fate. But I'm talking about those who have been subject to Katseli Law, so we don't have a reform of decision. Minister, I am talking about those who have already been denounced and late on their loans for a long time and the guarantors now with the 'blank date', which I have told you, are waiting, at a moment, for an electronic auction at their expense, if they have a house. I think I have to say that the answer does not satisfy me at all. It sees only the interest of the banks, while the interest of the banks has been served because they have been recapitalisation three times. We are all aware of the funds which have been allocated and which we are standing in a portion of our fellow citizens and are about to raise them either to strategic poor payers or to wealthy people. You spoke of well-being, Minister. With what evidence do you consider the whole to be prosperous? Because they went to get the bail? Let me remind you of something. The banks to the mortgage guarantors have never asked to check whether or not they would have been due. Another theme of business loans, corporate loans and this issue of urban housing. This is a signatory to blindly. So I think you should stand and do not insist on your position. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr. Carras. Mr. Minister has the floor for three minutes, for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u118	Mr. Carras, I don't have much to answer what you said, because what you said is about the unworthy guarantors. That is why I do not see why they cannot be subjected either to the Katseli Law or to the extrajudicial mechanism. Secondly, you referred to statistics that our Ministry does not have. That's why you can contact the Treasury.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u119	I have addressed myself there, and I have not received an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u120	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the following questions will not be discussed as a result of the attendance of the relevant ministers. The first, with number 993/6-2-2018, top-stage question of the Attica MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Athanasiou (Nashus) Athanasios to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: "Twelfths of decommissioned ships and shipwrecks in the port area of Elefsina", will not be discussed due to the impediment of Minister Kourublis, due to a workload. The first, with number 997/6-2-2018, is the second question of the Member of Parliament Kozani of New Democracy Mr. Georgios Kasapidis to the Minister for Environment and Energy on the subject: "Addressing the recurring epidemic attacks of the insect of Lymantria dispar in Kosanis with biological methods", will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy Mr Socrates Famelou. I also have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament in accordance with Article 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 on Criminal Responsibility of the Ministers, as in the 8-2-2018, a criminal case for the Minister of National Defence Panagiotis (Pano) Kammenos. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-09-S1-commons.u121	With the agreement of the House at 12.32 p.m., the sitting for the next Monday, February 12, 2018, at 18.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent questions.
