ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Please beg the Secretary to announce the reports to the Department.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, before we enter the topical and urgent debate, I would like to make some announcements to the Department. MEP B' Thessaloniki of the Aristides Association Fokas by letter to the President of the Parliament declares his departure and independence from the Group of the Union of Centres.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u3	I also have the honour to announce to the Department that, firstly, the Standing Committee on Production and Trade submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Tourism: "Structuring the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the World Tourism Organisation (WTO) on organising the 8th International Meeting of the POT on Tourism on the Silk Road". Secondly, the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘I Central Repository of Securities, II) Adaptation of Greek legislation to the provisions of Directive (EU) 2016/2258 and other provisions and III) Other provisions of the Ministry of Finance.’ Thirdly, the Standing Committee on Social Affairs submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Constitution of a Donation Contract between the Joint Benefit of the Foundation "ALEXANDROS S.A.", the Onassis Heart Surgery Centre (O.K.)" and the Greek State and other provisions.’
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Only four topical questions, one from the Ministry of Health and three from the Ministry of Education will be discussed today. Before we begin, however, let me first announce the timely questions that will not be discussed, which are: The third, with No. 58/24-9-2018, is a timely question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "For not paying compensation for the dismissal of the Ordinary Educationians of the OAED and their continued working hostage", it is not debated as a result of a Member's arrest. The sixth Question No 50/17-9-2018 by MP Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of Citizen Protection, on the subject: "Ancillary violence was carried out by EL.AS. The demonstration of Thessaloniki that took place against the Prespecies Agreement is not being discussed. The fourth question by No. 56/20-9-2018, published in the Official Journal of the European Communities by Mr. Aristides Fokas to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Acquisition for compensation of 750 million from the company "ELLINIKIKOS CHRYS" to the Greek State", will not be discussed due to the developments that you have just heard. The eighth Question No 43/13-9-2018 by the Member of the Greek Communist Party, Mr Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister of Health, on "Problems in the operation of the Centre for Physics and Rehabilitation (KEFIAP) Amphichia" will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Paul Polakis. Cause: workload. The ninth ninth, under number 33/5-9-2018, is a topical question by MP Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Christou Hadjisavvas to the Foreign Minister, on the subject: "There was a US involvement. In the case of the Skopje question, Mr Marcos Bolaris will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the State Secretary for Foreign Affairs. Cause: workload. There is a letter from the Secretary-General of the Government about all of the above obstacles. So we begin the debate with the fifth under number 60/24-9-2018, a topical question by Z' Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Athens Parliament Mr Spyridon Lykoudi to the Minister of Health, on "Is vaccination compulsory or not"? Mr. Lykoudi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u5	Minister, in a recent letter to the Secretary-General of Public Health of your Ministry, the Union of Free Professional Children of Attica asks for clarification on the issue of compulsory vaccination of children as a prerequisite for their entry into primary schools. The pediatricians in their letter focus on the gap existing in the institutional framework in order to make the vaccination of children really compulsory and the consequences of their parents' possible refusal to comply with the relevant directives. Bearing in mind that the anti-infectious movement has a growing tendency - you know - to accept from parents, that disappearing diseases, such as measles, have reappeared and have even caused four deaths so far, that the World Health Organisation is hitting the alarm about the impact on the population as a whole from this situation, Minister: First of all, is it a cause for concern about the Ministry's development of this anti-infectious movement? If so, what actions do you intend to take and, if not, what evidence may be based on your own reassurance? Secondly, does the Ministry intend to contribute to the arrest of the anti-infection movement and, if so, what actions? Thirdly, what is the strategy of the General Secretariat of Public Health on this matter? Fourthly, how are education and health promotion activities financed from where in the country and what are the results of these actions? Fifthly, does CEDEFOP have any competence or specific role in providing guidance on measures and actions in such cases? And lastly, is the Ministry of Health in cooperation with the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs - a happy coincidence that you are here, Minister of Education, to monitor this dialogue - in order to draw up a single and integrated regulatory framework to resolve the mandatoryity of vaccination without misinterpretations and without loopholes? Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u6	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, dear colleague. I think it is indeed a timely question, because at the moment there has been a public debate on the basis of this communication which you have mentioned. So first of all we must make it clear what is happening and if there is reason to induce this debate. I can assure you, therefore, that nothing has changed in the country's vaccination policy, nor in the strategy that the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education has in this regard. What is true and is repeated every year is a circular of the Ministry of Education in 2010, dated 16-9-2010, which every year at the beginning of the school period repeats and gives directions on the basis of a document from the Ministry of Health 2008, which has incorporated a directive from the National Committee for Vaccines. So nothing's changed. What is invoked by the Union of Free Professional Children - a brief parentheses and not by the Greek Paediatric Society, which is the scientific body representing the children of the country - is a written answer to a written question in 2015 by the then Minister of Education, Mr. Phile, which mentions exactly this document and this circular of 2010 and which, dear colleague, really - is very interesting - this same answer to a similar written question has been given by Mrs. Christophilopoulou in 2011, as Secretary of State of Education. I'm putting it down for the Minutes. They're popy-paste the same answers, just because the service itself has drafted them. [[At this point, Minister Andreas Xanthos submits for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Stenography and Practice Directorate.]] So, to be clear, nothing has changed in vaccination policy. That's the one. This year has become a small step towards stricterisation rather than optimising the vaccination framework, with a recommendation given to us by the National Committee for Vaccines. This is the competent scientific body. It is a 20-year-old committee, with highly prestigious scientists, epidemiologists, pediatricians, infectiousists, who monitor these issues and monitor international scientific debate, international guidelines, etc. That is what we hear and we consult them. The National Committee for Vaccines, therefore, because it has been a year and a half since this epidemic of measles and in Europe, and also in our country, recommends that children who will have to go to nurseries and nurseries should have made MMR, namely the triple vaccine which includes measles virus. That's what's in place today. I therefore believe that, firstly, in my view, we have a constructed concern and a noise that does not correspond to something real, namely that it has been differentiated and there is a change of line. It's not about that thing. The main point is what you have said. We do have a tendency, in particular in Europe, to increase one - I do not want to call it a movement - to challenge the scientific value of vaccines, to which we must be absolute and unequivocal. Vaccines are a crucial measure to protect public health and protect personal health and children, which are vulnerable population and special categories of adults. That is why there is no scientific question internationally and, of course, the World Health Organisation agrees. It is a measure, a development of therapeutic and preventive, at global level, which has really increased the life expectancy of people in all countries and has made past serious infectious diseases, which have been harvesting in recent decades. And obviously no ‘yes’ or ‘no’ dilemma is placed on vaccination. There is a question, in our view, how we strengthen the culture of vaccination. I call it very schematic. There is a requirement for compliance with the vaccination programme.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u8	Minister, please complete. You have your dentistry, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u9	I shall conclude, Mr President. I'm just gonna put on a title. The vaccination provided for in the National Vaccine Programme, based on the recommendations of the National Committee for Vaccines, is compulsory, but is guaranteed by the consent of the parents. This is what we are trying to do, to strengthen a culture of prevention, health education, awareness among citizens on these issues, and so far, this has been done. In other words, we do not have alarming developments in the country and a dramatic decline in the rate of vaccination.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u10	Mr. Lykoudi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u11	Minister, the main aim of my question today was to be heard from the Step of the House and from your responsible lips the unequivocal support for vaccination. In this sense, I believe that the first and main aim of the question has been achieved. It is important for the Minister of Health to say that he supports compulsory vaccination. Don't think it's that simple. I know what I'm saying. Secondly, despite the fact that you know them, precisely because I know very well and on the basis of the messages I have received so far, that enough people are listening to our debate today, I will say two things, not for you, but above all for those who are listening. As a whole, the European Parliament supported vaccination with passion, as a key element in the health balance of the population to which it refers. The European Parliament says that fifteen thousand cases of diseases in Europe would be prevented by vaccination. At the same time, it says that vaccination prevented two and a half million deaths in Europe from 2009 to 2015. The second element I would also like to mention and which you also know - I am interested in hearing about it by the citizens - is that the Pan-Hellenic Pharmaceutical Association, a key part of the state's health service, considers that it is the state's obligation to inform citizens of the need and usefulness of vaccination. Minister, I heard you say before - and I noted it, and that is why I do not think you are right in what you are saying - that there is a difference. Another thing to be said by the Paediatric Society and another to be spoken by the free professionals - pediatricians of Attica Prefecture, but I suppose you do not question the knowledge and content of the subject. We don't want to reduce their own intervention, do we? - despite the fact that I, too, noted what you're saying. And that has a value.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u12	Almost all of them are in the Paediatric Society.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u13	Mr President, you may know that better than I do. But look, let me tell you something. It is very important how we handle a possible institutional gap - if any - to tell me in your dentistry - between the compulsory nature of the ministries' decisions and the statement by Mr Philadelphia, to which you referred, and what impact he has - if it has - the refusal of part of the parents to accept this compulsoryity. Because yesterday's statement by the Secretary-General of Health mentions, among other things, something which may have the value of objectively, in general - but I would like you to explain here to me how it fits and what it sticks to - that, in any case, because it is a medical intervention for the population, we must also have the consent of those whom we call on them to accept the intervention. If, therefore, there is such a question, there is indeed an institutional gap. I would like to tell you that it is compulsory, but in any case medical intervention is made. If you don't want her, I can't do anything. Because a parent’s refusal to inoculate his own child has implications for the other children involved in his school or in the company or in the game, it is very important that you tell me whether there is an institutional vacuum and how you can cover it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u14	Mr. Blonde has the floor. Within your time this time, Minister. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u15	But, Mr President, I would like to give a full answer, because I think it is a very sensitive issue, and I really want this debate to come up with a clear signal on the part of the state. Firstly, I would like to make it clear that there are no two-tier statements and two-tier circles. There is a very clear directive that compliance with the vaccination programme in the child population should be checked. Of course, I also said that although we have high coverage rates in the country, we are not being reassured. There's no reassurance. There's barely any vigilance. There is a constant effort in consultation with specialist scientists to strengthen the institutional framework - as you say - and above all through the emphasis we are currently on change in primary care, through the culture of prevention of health care, to strengthen vaccination culture in the general population and especially in parents, because I think that is an essential response. As to whether there's a parent's refusal to inoculate his child, I'll tell you how we deal with it. There is a great debate, scientific, social and political, throughout Europe. And I must tell you that only two of the old European countries, Italy and France, after a long debate, dialogue, with the scientific community, with the academic community, with the universities, with the parents' associations, with teachers, etc., have been moving forward with progressive and very careful steps. There is also a duty, in this strict sense, to impose penalties, i.e. to ban the exercise of a fundamental right which is the right to children's education, and in some of the former Eastern countries. That is the picture today in Europe. This is not an easy debate. Of course, there are also discussions in the European Union institutions and in the European Parliament and in the World Health Organisation. We're watching this trend. What we are doing is supporting very specific measures and let me tell you a few things. Firstly, we have brought the National Committee on Vaccines to the Committee on Social Affairs of this House at a special meeting and informed in detail the members of the national delegation on this sensitive issue and what is the perception. Indeed, the National Bioethics Commission, who are people who are also looking at this side, has participated in bioethics, in other words, in how this is contrary to fundamental rights, etc. There's the child's health booklet. If you look at the modern new booklet that we have actually taken out is a health treatment manual, which very much substantiates the idea that children should be vaccinated and that this is the socially responsible attitude for a parent if he wants to exercise his parental role and the role of protecting his child, that is to say to vaccinate his child. Also, there are information campaigns, you said, about the CDC. Of course the CDC has a key role in this. It participates in a joint action, in a European cooperation with many other European countries to strengthen this culture of vaccination, and our country, which plays an active role. CEDEFOP with campaigns, information spots, posters, etc., has helped adults in particular. Last year, for example, we have had almost 50% increase in adults’ anti-grain vaccination coverage, so that we have half-folding of cases and deaths fortunately.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u16	Minister, shorten up. We're not going to have a bill debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u17	I'll be short, yes. Be careful, we have strengthened the vaccination of the human resources of the ERC. He's doubled. It was 11% and now it's over 25%. This protects themselves, but also the caregivers. And, of course, there is a serious vaccination intervention in high vaccination and risk compartments, for example, the Roma population. We've had five thousand vaccines in the past few months in populations living here in Lecanopedio.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u18	To children?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u19	To children, of course. And more than seventy thousand in the child refugee population, who lives all over the country. But we have one last, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u20	Minister, I cannot leave you any more time. Close now, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u21	Please, Mr. President. I'll say the last one.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u22	Don't beg me, you've spoken seven minutes longer. Please don't ask me. Close right now. We're not having a bill conversation. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u23	Listen, we are in agreement with the National Committee for Vaccines, and what we are thinking of bringing the standard and the rate of vaccination to the Minister for Health when there are epidemiological reasons, that is to say, where there is a scientific evidence that there is an exacerbation of a specific disease, that for a specific period and for a particular vaccine and for a particular population there is a stricter compliance with vaccination. That is what I think is a measure that completes this intervention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u24	Let's find out, when we have questions, they're questions and not a bill conversation. We are going to ask the three questions that will be answered by the Minister of Education present, Mr Constantine Gavroglou. The first question will be discussed under No 59/24-9-2018 by the Member of the Attica of the New Republic, George Vlachos, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on ‘Special arrangement for students from the affected areas from the fire of 23 July 2018’. Mr. Vlachos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it has been about two months since that day that thousands of our fellow citizens, residents of the areas of Neos Voutzas and Matthi have been faced with an unprecedented disaster whose consequences have been experienced so far and I am very afraid that they will be experiencing for a long time. Tragmatic account is the loss of tens of our fellow citizens, tens of our fellow people, the total destruction of dwellings, property, and thousands of acres of forest land became ashes. The areas of Matty, New Vucas remind of Ghost cities as if it had not been one day since that day of destruction. Even today these regions are considered to be dangerous, namely inappropriate to be inhabited. Of course, no restoration works have been launched even in the case of houses called green houses and with small improvements that could be relocated, no hazardous materials have been removed from the area and the toxic substances released from the fire. Under these difficult circumstances, which I described, - I imagine you also know - a few days ago the new school year began with students and their families trying to recover from shock and overcome the great difficulties both spiritually and psychologically. This situation doubtless affects more students in the third grade as well as graduates who will re-examine their exams this year, who are called upon to claim a place in higher education under unprecedented circumstances and with great psychological pressure, which affects their learning performance to a large extent. So I come to the conclusion that I do not take any more time and I will come back to see that there is additional moleculosis among the students of the Third High School, but also for the graduates, who are giving again all-Greek examinations, and also for the translations that will be made this year, so that we can make it easier for children to live in this region. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u26	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. I think you have referred to this tragic event and the loss of the lives of our fellow citizens. We first visited the schools there and invited the Ministry of Educational and Parents in the region to tell us the extraordinary needs they have caused by this terrible tragedy that they have experienced. You should know that since last Friday, special staff, psychologists and social workers have been in schools. This request came after the fires, obviously early in August, and given the complex system of sending assistant teachers we have - we consider it a great success - on Friday to have this world. Meanwhile, a working party was convened with academics, psychology teachers, social workers, who organized the way in which they would discuss from now on with teachers who are confronted with an unprecedented situation. So we have a first deal with the demands and obviously the problems. We have something else that I do not want to underestimate at all, and I want to welcome it, even though it may appear within this truly complex and difficult framework, not so important. We have asked the Agricultural School, which has already gone and done its studies, to see to it that the premises are regular, that is to say to try - everything possible - and, above all, the intangible areas, to have a normality. You understand why the Agronomic School is there that has a really very important contribution. Now, for the rest of the stuff you said, we've already taken steps for the kids that are there. In other words, there is a 20% increase in the base molecules and the issue of these relays that are being translated into Athens. They had been omitted from the law in general, the burned children and this has also been solved. For the time you say, it will obviously be part of the laws that provide for such situations. And such situations are the laws and circulars that relate to natural disasters. So there is a special arrangement for these children, where, for example, it was applied to Mandra and Kos this year because of the earthquake and time will apply to these children. In whatever emergency there is and is not provided for in this legislation, it is clear that we will proceed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u28	Mr. Vlacho has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u29	I'm starting with the last one. Minister, with this question I wanted to formally bring this important issue to the House and because we are at the beginning of an academic year, I wanted to see whether we can do something for this year's successors.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u30	But it's been implemented, that's what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u31	In addition. You said about the transcripts. The system I believe must be quite relaxed. The children who lived and live in the region - live it - are relevant, you know, because many have moved, because their homes do not allow it - by simple procedures, as long as they were resident in these two regions and produce the necessary justification, to be able to make a transcription. We have said that, for the year being, they will have the 20% increase, as in other cases, as in Mandra - I am speaking about it - or as was the case earlier with the earthquakes in the Ionian islands and not only. That is what we want, and I want them officially to do what is going to happen today. It is not just me who listens to you, it is not just my colleagues who listen to you. All the residents of the region listen to you, so they can be informed. Therefore, children will relax in this respect, knowing exactly how the conditions will be for the next period of their courses and examinations. Now, as far as the area you said you visited - and psychologists - is concerned, all this is obviously positive and it would be unfair not to raise it here. They give a solution to the huge problem that exists in the region - this nightmare - which anyone visits, can understand what it is all about. Skull place! Of course - and this, with the help of the Agricultural School - I would say, and I would add here, because sometimes there may be delays, that there are in the area - and I say this to you as a farmer now, but also knowing the area - many nurseries, individuals who are very easily and in good mood able to provide, plant and restore the green and landscape in the school halls immediately, without expecting certain procedures. These are things that can be done, as long as someone traces them, highlights them, asks them and watch them. I would therefore like to close by saying exactly what will happen and what will happen so that all our fellow citizens know, without misunderstandings and without any other questions, what will be the case for the next period for their children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u32	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u33	Mr Vlao, I think we both agree, and in your speech it appeared that the aim is the procedures that will bring normality, a normality of something that was so extreme. So it is a complex problem, because it is not done by a measure or two regulations and so on. It's a set of measures. First of all, that. Secondly, you are right, it is the nurseries in the area etc., but you know, the role of the state is to be able to mobilise its institutions. We, indeed, have become extremely positive as well as the offer of the Agricultural University and the offer of Psychology Departments and the offer of the Social Works Departments. This is very important, because when we tell the universities to be open to society, we mean this. So these procedures have begun. I understand that they're moving forward and going on, and so on. It is also very important to discuss with the children and I understand that within the enormous stress, which exists, this is difficult, but we also need families and children to discuss and realize what this could be, firstly, there and, secondly, how each day will be one day towards a smoother everyday life. Of course, the children had already given tests when the fire took place. However, despite the fact that you would typically think that after giving, there is no reason why any additional - let's say - regulation, children who gave tests will increase their molecules by 20%, because many do not go to the schools they want or have to take back tests, etc., and this would calm down the situation, and also have the possibility of relocations to come to Athens. We have done this precisely to deal with this type of problem. Now, that's it for this year. Next year...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u34	Only for one category of children, those who had dead or'red' homes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u35	What I told you about burned children, many are in green houses, etc. However, you should know that there will be no subcategory left out for formal reasons. It is obvious that the overall system also withstands its absorption. Next year they must definitely be incorporated into the legislation on natural disaster areas. Obviously there we need to take account of the general, affected areas and specific issues, such as, for example, many burned children may not be able to move to their ranks, etc. So, by studying the situation with teachers too, I think that we will have a more reliable picture of the problems, which we will proceed with in the necessary regulations.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u36	Thank you. We move to the second with number 55/20-9-2018, topical question by the Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Subjects of teachers in the Dodecanese with the beginning of the school year". Mr. Kremastein, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u37	Mr President, Minister, you know that the Dodecanese is the most remote region in the country and at the same time the twelve islands are not really twelve, but they are fourteen to fifteen. Of course, I put this as an introduction, to say that every year, as throughout Greece, there are gaps at the beginning of the period, which are covered, I would say, sufficiently. The gaps exist, however, and especially in these remote areas, the gaps become more pronounced. The local press keeps working on it. Today it says that there are still, even though the question has been written 15 days ago. Many of the things I write in the question have been covered, but even today the local press says that there are some forty gaps in the Dodecanese. The question is this: is there any organic positions and not substitutes on these islands, so that there can be some sort of adequate treatment? That is a key question. Secondly, from the results of the pan-Hellenic examinations, we see that children from these schools are lacking in the centre. So that's the question. Because the people who have their children on these islands must somehow send them elsewhere, so that they have the same chance of claiming a place in the HEIs, in the highest institutions. That is where the point of the question lies. I would like to take a step further and ask if you are thinking - because I put it as a question - about the question of tele­vision and what prospects there is to be developed in the near future. That's the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u38	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u39	Mr. Kremastin, you raised three issues. The President will give me the opportunity to answer all three points you have raised. Firstly, you also recognised that today the situation is much more improved than when you tabled your question. It is important, however, to say that for the first year of this year - and I think that the most ill-favourable in our homeland - schools have been so successful in opening up. We'd hired twenty thousand assistant teachers, they went on time, and so on. That does not mean that there are no problems, as you have said. Secondly, the solution to the problem is permanent appointments. As you will read the day before yesterday, following a government decision, we announced fifteen thousand appointments in three and four thousand years' depth this year, five thousand two hundred fifty per year and another five thousand two hundred fifty per year next. So we're starting to solve this problem, too. Given that each system needs a number of alternates - you understand why, for emergencies, etc. - along with the fifteen thousand, we think we will be in a fairly better and dramatically better situation at the end of the three-year period. Now, how do gaps arise? It matters to the people who listen to us. There are requests from the school directors via the training directors, who each has under their supervision a large number of schools. These are sent to the regional training directors and then they come to the Ministry. If there is not a meticulous employment of each grade with the gaps, they come to the Ministry which is far more than the appropriations we have. Fortunately, for the first time this year, the gaps that have come to us have been much closer to the gaps that we are able to see in schools. That is why we have had this success. So there's a problem with how to filter down until he comes to the Ministry. In any case, for this matter, so that you do not think that I do not want to answer, at the High School in Ebona there is no question, and in Kastelorizo all the basic gaps have been covered. They have not covered one of the Physical Education and one of the French languages. You have raised two more issues. The problem you say that children from the Dodecanese and not just have a good performance in the pan-Hellenic...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u40	Comparatively.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u41	Yes, compared. This has to do with the other great reform that we want to implement. And that's to be a high school country again. We're a country without a 3rd grade. Because the way school has been for years now, the educational process in the third grade has been cancelled. So what we're saying is that only if the kids get back into school and get credibility in high school will we be able to partially solve the problem. It's not going to be solved by pressing a button. We say, then, that the proposal that we make with the fewest lessons and most of the hours for each lesson will greatly strengthen those regions which do not have the opportunity to support through other institutions. Of course, the key issue you raised is telematics. We are studying this issue. You know that in some places it is true. We want to be very careful and very clear, because even the best telematics programme, as you know, does not replace, especially in schools, the teacher. The programme should therefore complement the presence and functioning of the teacher. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u42	Mr. Kremastein, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'm happy with what you're saying. I would ask you permanent positions to begin with the most remote places. For example, the Dodecanese to take the lead in this regard, in what you mentioned earlier. The second thing I must say - and unfortunately, it is not Mr Blonde here, I insist on this - is that televised education is within both the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Health. Because the modern telemedicine isn't based on the old telemedicine you find on a cell phone. It is based on the existence of the background in a large university hospital, where the new doctor is actually trained when he comes into contact with his teacher every day and solves the problems. There, he is. Consequently, my proposal to you is if it is possible for the lessons of a very good model of high school or high school with the Internet to be able to be seen by the students in remote areas, but also by young teachers, who, when they see a model teaching, are definitely benefited. So I think it is very important to solve a number of problems in telecommunications, telemedicine and telemedicine in your area of business today.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u44	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Kremastine, because of your huge experience in university, you realize that in the last three years we have been trying to deal with incredible pathogens that the educational system has, which we have found and we are trying to do everything in order to be able to go to a normality. We think that the fifteen thousand appointments - and I agree with you that we need to take care of the remote parts of our country in this first phase - are the end of a first cycle to tackle the problems of so many years. At the same time, however, we also need to look at the issues you have raised. And the issues you have raised are crucial, especially in a modern world, and we must not look at them with carelessness, so that we can find them before us as a problem after a few years. I think it was a very impressive thing to say, it's not a Internet issue, but it's a much more complex issue. That is why we are now taking this step, we say, so that what now seems to be a very good thing not to be a problem in some years. However, we are moving in the direction you say and there is a special working group studying it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u46	Thank you. We continue the debate with the seventh under number 51/18-9-2018, a topical question by MP I of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Let us not close any section, sector or speciality of the ESA". Mr. Delia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the title of the question which the President has just read is also the demand, of course, that this question should not be closed by any section, whether sector or professional grade. Because this year, your government for the third consecutive year has taken for granted both within the framework of the cuts and the so-called'realisation' of education expenditures abolishes hundreds of departments in the PSAs with the vagina, the method of the so-called parts of it. Although your Government advertises and says that the PSAs have been upgraded, thousands of are the children who have chosen areas and specialties in their schools and have seen these departments, which have been selected, characterized by a few members, to "red" since June yet to the electronic system of the Ministry and to close, leaving them literally out and further exposed to the blackmail of the Ministry of Education. And what does the Ministry of Education say? What do you say to these kids? "Or change specialty or change school. If you don't want to change specialty, then you need to change school. Don't study what you chose, what you selected, what you like, but what you choose the Ministry. Otherwise, you can go to another school, to another city, even to another island." So there are too many children called at the moment, today we are talking about, moving from Menidios to Piraeus - please! - in order to continue the specialty they have chosen, because the specialty they have chosen has been abolished in the PES of the Minidios. Otherwise, if they want to go to school in their area, in Menidi, then they have to choose another specialty in High School III, to overthrow a programming they did from High School I. In central Macedonia these children - more than three hundred children - from dozens of dismantled departments go through the same spoon. One of these children - and it is important to say this - who was at the PAPAL Koufalion happens to be from a family in which the father has very serious health problems. In the Peloponnese we have the same problems as the Tripolis PPA and students whose specialty has been abolished, if they want to continue in this specialty, to go to Corinth - please! - that they do eighty kilometers to keep her going. Same in Astros and in Agia Larissa and Paros, a little - very much throughout the country. At the same time - and I would like to point out this - the same effort is being made for the few sections of the EPP, namely the guidance sections, the directional sections, where they are trying to close down these parts. And a few departments consider the Ministry of Education to be those which, of course...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u48	The rest you can tell in your dentistry, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u49	And students are required, for example from the General High School of Phiros, to go to Thessaloniki, to a number of miles away, and even to obstacles, without appropriate transport, to Astochori. I could say a lot of such examples. They're familiar. I should like to close, Mr President, on a very sensitive subject, because it concerns refugee students. Of course, the refugee students must learn from the PES and choose a profession. However, this should also be accompanied by a supportive policy by the Ministry of Education. Appropriate integration sections must be in place so that these students can meet the requirements of these sections in substance. Otherwise - and you know it well too - they leave the school, as they left last year twenty students from Piraeus PES. Thank you. So we want you to tell us...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u50	Please, Mr. Colleague, finish it up. You don't have any more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u51	We need you to tell us what you're going to do so that the few sections aren't closed. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u52	Today we have a lot of legislative work. Please don't get far. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Delis, before I am ready to answer your question, I have read almost all the questions you have asked me as long as I am Minister and to every question you conclude that the solution to these problems is the permanent appointments. I am pleased that even in your oral speech you have referred to permanent appointments, obviously by accepting the government's planning to go ahead with fifteen thousand new appointments. In order to understand the audiences who may be tuned to the channel of the Parliament, what you ask is what is going on with the children who have chosen a scientific area in the Second High School in the PES and Third High School, they specialise in something within this area. You should be aware that this year, by way of derogation from the legislation, we have moved on to the operation of a thousand four hundred oligoparts, which for some reason seem to be unaware of them, the first being to have approved another fifty. What you have to understand is that having one or two children in class is not a pedagogically good education. Of course, if children are far away, not to be troubled or if children have other kinds of problems. But education cannot aim to be able to train in each class a child or two. It is not good education, it is not good socialism and it does not help either children or teachers. Now, are there omissions and mistakes? Of course, there are. There are because it is a system which we have actually upgraded, that is for granted and no one disputes it, but we have a problem many times since June that the individual responsible should tell us what the entries are so that we can schedule, because you know that the appropriations we have are not infinite. So rationalisation - as much as you do not like the term or the term - or you disagree with the term - must also exist for reasons of expenditure, but also for reasons of pedagogics. In any case, we have moved on to reopening, since we see each case separately, a thousand four hundred parts. And, of course, I am sure that we will move on to others, but since we are looking very strict at these problems they say they have. Sometimes justified and sometimes, you will allow me, completely unjustifiedly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u54	Mr. Delia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u55	Thank you. Minister, you have begun with the appointments and we want to ask you: why should we take your announcement seriously for fifteen thousand appointments, when your predecessor, Mr. Philis, made an announcement of twenty thousand appointments over three years, like you, or like the former PASOK - New Democracy government, made such an announcement for ten thousand appointments? You took it in the middle, you got the average. Is there a guarantee that these appointments will be made? And anyway, is there some kind of budget line? And, anyway, these appointments will meet the needs of education, when in the last few years only over thirty-five thousand teachers have left all of the education? And you're telling us now that you're going to appoint fifteen thousand in three years' depth? First of all, at the moment we're talking, there's gaps. According to the educational federations, there are over ten thousand in all education. And I will give you a concrete example, Mr Minister, and indeed from the PES. There is no mathematician at the PESA Koufalion in the third grade today, and these children are invited to provide all-Greek tests without mathematical examinations this year. So do you continue to talk about regularity and claim that everything was done well this year because you hired more substitutes? I would like to say a little bit about the few parts that have been adopted. You said that a thousand four hundred parts were adopted. But we would like you to tell us, Minister, how many of these are not adopted, because that is what our question is, and that is enough in all of Greece, and there are too many of these students.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u56	Can you tell me, since you've studied them?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u57	I give you some examples. You have the evidence, Minister. The Ministry has them every day in front of him. The sections that have been bent upon by your Ministry since June have been closed, the so-called'minimum Members'. In any case, why should a section be considered as a small one when it comes to a laboratory course? What should these departments be, in other words, multilateral and involved with workshops and a whole range of experiments that may also be dangerous? I don't understand what logic. I am coming, however, and I ask you to tell us the number of departments that have been closed, because it is too much and you know it all over Greece. And the students, as I told you, overthrow their programming. They've gone to the First High School in P.A.A., they've taken a general direction there. They're starting to make sense of the field they choose for the second grade. High school two. And now you come to the Third High School, you're pulling out the specialties and overthrowing them all the programming. You tell them or change specialty or go to another town. This concerns teachers too, because a number of teachers will lose their jobs, I mean organic ones. So you try to inspire and generalize a mobility climate for both pupils and teachers. What we want to tell you is that the answer you gave of course and it is not satisfactory, although it was more or less expected. I should like to say here - and the teachers and students are listening - something that matters, because the method you choose from within the few sections is finally to close schools, Minister, because there these schools are being led, especially the small ones, to a slow, gradual death, so that these students, technical training, mammoth schools, according to the specialities that the Ministry wants, of course, of the Greek capital and the large business groups, are brought together, because they also define the direction of technical education, as was the case at the University of Western Attica.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u58	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u59	For a moment, I was worried that you wouldn't be referring to big capital. But I saw you mentioned, so it is absolutely consistent with your position on educational issues. I want you to understand that education must take into account too many things to be effective. If we have a section in a neighborhood in which three kids are written, which can take the bus and go two stops above in one class that is more, do you think he won't go? I agree with you if this is the case in remote areas. But we have solved these or are in the process of integration. This is where you play - not you personally - and another game in the big cities too. You know we've got a lot of PAPALs with the same specialties next to each other. So the question is not whether the government wants to close schools. The question is whether we all agree on how education should function. I come to what you said about appointments. You're really leaving me speechless. You're making a huge mistake. Mr. Friend never said that. Mr. Friend spoke of the needs of education and right and his numbers were right at the time. The Prime Minister also said so in the Thessaloniki Exhibition. For the first time the government has four and a half thousand appointments and then ten thousand five hundred appointments in three years. That's what we can do now that we've come out of the commission. As you can see, it is the government's first priority to proceed to normalisation. Let us not underestimate these issues. There's an issue with the numbers you mentioned. You said the feds were talking about gaps. I think you're not too read. Last year when there were fifteen thousand recruits, the federations said there were six thousand blanks. If we accept the six thousand, along with the fifteen thousand, it's twenty-one thousand. This year, with subnatality, less world, more rationalization, etc., we hired twenty thousand and the federations say there are four thousand gaps. Last year, according to federations, the needs were for twenty - one thousand recruitments, and this year, there are twenty - four thousand gaps, or twenty - four thousand. Are the needs raised this year compared with last year? So it wants a great deal of attention from all of us when we invoke numbers and when we make them public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u60	That concludes the debate on topical and urgent questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only a discussion and a vote on the principle of Articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Integration into Greek legislation of Council Directive 2015/637/EU of 20 April 2015 (OJ L 106/24.4.2015) and other provisions’. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 25 September 2018 to hold the debate on the draft law at a single meeting on the principle, articles, amendments and the whole. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please, Mr. Tasoula and Mr. Minister. Be quiet. It is enough that you have delayed us, Minister, with all the answers you have received, and the questions and the respondents. Now get out to do our job. I suppose I have your agreement. Listen, indeed, to what I'm proposing to you. I propose to the draft law - because it then follows a second one, a ratification of the 'United Nations' - by giving a little comfort, both the rapporteurs and the parliamentary representatives, to place 'en bloque' on the draft law and the four amendments. I would like to ask the Secretariat here to take away the Secretary of Government and to come the three ministers who have to support their amendments because they are irrelevant to the bill. In fact, they must at least have listened to the speakers, because if they have not heard the speakers and have come to me at the time of the vote, what should I do about that? The parliamentary working hours will follow rather than their own course. Please contact the government secretary and he knows what he will do. I imagine, therefore, that we agree to take it as 'en bloque' with a little tolerance of time. Because we are in the Senate Hall and there is no electronic record, anyone who wants to speak will be registered by hand up until Mr. Constantine Tasoulas comes down from Stepma. Here, Mr. Kritsis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are called on to discuss and vote on the draft law on the transposition into Greek legislation of the European directive on consular protection of the citizens of the European Union. Before I go any further, I would like to point out that, in discussing the draft law in the Committee on Defence and Foreign Affairs, the parties were found to agree on the main body of the bill, namely the directive and its incorporation into Greek legislation. I would also like to point out that this directive has already been incorporated into national law in almost all the Member States of the European Union. As far as the substance of the proposed law is concerned, its vote will have a very practical impact on Greek citizens when they are abroad in a country where there is no Greek embassy, consulate or honorary consul. From now on, following the adoption of the law, if necessary, it will be possible to request protection from an embassy or consulate of any Member State of the European Union there is in that country and, of course, it will also apply vice versa, i.e. any non-representative citizen of a Member State of the European Union will be able to request protection from the Greek consular authorities in the countries that are established. The aim is to ensure the right of non-representative citizens to be treated impartially by the embassy or consulate of another Member State. The draft law stipulates how, through cooperation and coordination measures, Member States can make practical arrangements to share competences in the provision of consular protection to citizens of the European Union. The conditions for the mutual information of Union embassies and consulates on any exceptional circumstances shall also be laid down so that there is a coordinated response for all citizens, irrespective of the country of origin within the Union, as well as information and cooperation with the competent central European authorities. At this point I must note that Greece is currently diplomatically represented in eighty-five countries around the world. This figure was higher, but decreased in 2012-2013 in order to prevent the operational needs of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the context of the Memorandums. Thus, in two years' time as a state, we lost our representation in six countries, but also in another Greek consulate, in two large and very important countries for the Greek community, such as the USA and Australia. With the implementation of this law, Greek citizens, when they are in a state of emergency, will be able to contact diplomatic authorities from other EU countries, without, of course, implying that the independent Greek diplomatic presence must not be restored to all countries and to those mentioned above. It is clear from this that this is a fairly important regulation of a practical, fundamental and symbolic nature, since it is part of the wider European Union's effort to introduce a single European identity involving solidarity, protection and mutual protection. So far, it was not obvious that the European citizen's status was also protected independently of the country of origin. Thus, the incorporation of this directive comes and clarifies in the most important field, that of practical implementation, precisely this holistic European approach to citizens outside the EU. In all of this, two features arise which I would like to highlight. One is the concept of protecting EU citizens, collaborating at Union level. Secondly, the spirit of regulation, which is an important step towards strengthening the concept of European identity, not only institutionally but also practically. I shall proceed with a brief presentation of the chapters and articles. The general provisions and scope of the draft law are set out in the first chapter. It's Articles 1 to 7. The second chapter concerns measures to coordinate and cooperate with governments and diplomatic missions. The third chapter refers to economic procedures relating to international protection. The fourth and final chapters are the final provisions. Article 1 describes the subject matter of this draft law, which is, as mentioned, the incorporation into the Greek legal order of the EU Council Directive 637/2015 on coordination and cooperation in order to benefit from the territory of a third country, where the Member State of which they have the nationality of, the protection of diplomatic and consular authorities. Article 2 gives an exact definition of the non-representative citizen. Article 4 lays down the procedures for the protection of members of a family of non-representative Greek citizens in a third country, including any members who are not the same citizens of the EU. Article 5 describes the practical arrangements regarding the protection of Greek citizens by the embassy or consulate of any Member State which has the same principles in the territory of a third country and the corresponding practical arrangements for the diplomatic or consular authorities of Greece that may represent diplomatic or consular authorities of another Member State of the EU. Article 7 shall indicate the cases in which diplomatic assistance may be provided. These are cases of arrest, detention, committing crime or offence with the victim of an EU citizen, a serious accident or disease, death, assistance and repatriation in the event of an emergency, the need to issue travel documents, as provided for in Decision 96/409, of the representatives of the governments of the Member States. Article 9 describes the framework for cooperation between the Greek diplomatic and consular authorities at local level to conclude practical arrangements. It is stated that, if there is no agreement, the chairman of local cooperation meetings shall be appointed as the representative of an EU State. in cooperation with the Union delegation. Article 10 describes the cooperation at local level of the Greek consular or diplomatic authorities located in a third country to coordinate emergency plans with the consular authorities of the other Member States, as well as the local delegation of the European Union and support from the European External Action Service and the EU Civil Protection Mechanism. Article 11 describes the general rules on financial procedures relating to the reimbursement of consular expenses, which should be carried out within three months of their payment, while the Greek diplomatic authorities may request reimbursement of costs if they provide consular assistance. Generally speaking, the costs which non-representative citizens enjoy consular protection in third countries are only those borne by the citizens of the Member State which provided assistance under the same conditions. The deadline for high-cost cases - such as in cases of arrest or detention of a non-representative citizen - is 12 months. At this point I would also like to add my voice to my colleagues who have pointed out to the committee that these costs may, on a case-by-case basis, be unbearable. Let's see what we can do about it. Article 12 describes in particular the simplified financial procedures in crisis situations. This provides for: When the Greek diplomatic and consular authorities have supported financially, through assistance from the European Union Civil Protection Mechanism, any contribution by the Member State of the nationality of the non-representing citizen shall be determined after the removal of the EU contribution. Where the non-representative citizen has Greek nationality, the competent Greek authorities may seek reimbursement of the costs of the citizen concerned. Third, the Greek diplomatic and consular authorities providing assistance may request reimbursement of the costs of the State of citizenship by analogy. Finally, it is clear that this draft law - beyond the technical nature - embodies the concept of consular protection throughout Europe, which can only be positive for Greek citizens but also for the consolidation of the rights of the EU. On this basis, ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to vote in favour of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr. Kritsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u64	Mr President, will we talk about the amendments later?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u65	Mr Tasouula, wait a minute, since Mr Kalogerou is here, to whom we wish good success in his ministry. You have the floor for five minutes, Minister, to defend your amendment so that people can hear it from here and beyond.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment suspends the obligation to apply mediation to specific categories of disputes until 16-9-2019, i.e. until the next court year. This was considered necessary in the light of the opinion of the plenary under No 34/2018. This decision, by a marginal majority, took the view that specific issues relating to the obligability of mediation and, in particular, to expenditure, could create a subtraction to the public's confidence in this institution. In this decision, therefore, there was a marginal majority, namely 21-18. In view of this decision, we consider it necessary to consult all the parties concerned again, namely the lawyers, with the judges. You know that both the lawyers and the judicial associations, in terms of compulsory mediation, had tabled a number of proposals. On the other hand, it is in the interest of ombudsmen to find a solution which will allow effective implementation in the fields where Law 4512/2018 provided for the mandatoryity of mediation. Why do we say that? The mediation foundation was established in 2010. From 2010 to 2015, nothing happened in practice, i.e. we had very few cases where mediation ended, which we were talking about. Think that with the 2010 institutional framework, there was not even an institutional provision for recording the cases that followed the mediation route. So we didn't know what assumptions the mediation was completed and what the result was. It is said, therefore, that from 2010 to 2015 there was a one-digit number in the completion of mediation for each year. This means that a very important reform - which has to do with alternatives to disputes - has essentially not worked. Since 2015, this government has been able to complete an important reform which concerns both the procedures which are voluntary mediation and those which have been voted on by Law 4512. These forecasts were then considered by the government to be in the right direction and will lead to the effective implementation of this reform. In relation to this plenary opinion, we can discuss both the majority's view and the minority's view. There's a given one. That even marginally a majority raises issues of unconstitutionalism - as I have told you before - as to the costs, as to where the cost ends, and whether in relation to these costs the citizen can, indeed, have access to his natural judge and to the judicial protection provided for in the Constitution and the laws. Against that, what's the problem, though it's consultative? And you know very well that when we have an advisory decision in plenary, that does not mean that the decision is necessarily binding. As to what is this decision binding? As to the need for all of us to create a necessary legal certainty framework in this reform. What do I mean? If, in applying the provisions of compulsory law, there are citizens who avoid following the compulsory mediation procedure and appeal directly to the judge, a court could consider the preliminary ruling to be annulled that the mediation procedure was not prior to it. Another court could have another view. In other words, precisely because the plenary opinion says that it is unconstitutional to tell the citizen 'you did well and did not appeal to mediation'. This would lead to contradictory decisions and we could have two standards for the application of mediation. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I conclude by saying: at the moment, the remaining provisions of Law 4512 concerning commercial and civil disputes, to which mediation applies, continue normally on a voluntary basis. One of the prisoners. In other words, there is no question of mediation. There's no law out there. We're on regular. With regard to compulsoryity, the Ministry and I, personally, have taken immediate initiatives in connection with consultation with all stakeholders. That is to say, we have discussed the matter of suspending this suspension with the judicial associations, with the lawyers. The Association of Ombudsmen has also been informed. I state it publicly that next week there is a new meeting to see how we can resolve the issues that were raised by the plenary advisory decision, in order to proceed normally with the...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u67	Understood, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u68	I conclude, Mr President, by saying - because the new judicial year entered into force - that if we consider that a solution has been found to satisfy all concerned and, above all, the citizens concerned, because it is the citizens who have to trust mediation, then we will also come back with the arrangements that we have agreed and possibly with a transition to entry into force earlier and the new judicial year. If we need something else, Mr President, we will come back.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Minister. Have a minute. Ladies and gentlemen, only clarifying questions before I smash the Minister. Mr. Xydakis, do you have a question?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u70	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u71	Mr. Neddy, do you have any clarifications?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u72	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u73	Mr. Theocharopoulos?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u74	One question, Mr President. An amendment has been tabled by Mr Loverdos - and I have asked you a question too - on the self-help issue. Let me ask if it's going to be accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u75	We're not talking about this, Mr. Theocharopoulos. We are talking about what he said about his amendment and whether you want to ask a precise question. Mr Loverdos' amendment will be answered by the Minister, who has the bill and to whom the amendment is inserted. Mr. Kalogerou won't answer. Mr. Shahinides, do you have a question?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u76	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u77	Mr. Lambroulis, would you like some clarification on Mr. Kaloger's amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u78	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u79	Mr. Psariano is absent. Mr. Georgiadis isn't here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u80	Mr President, I am here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u81	Mr. Lykoudis, from what I see, I have you as a special speaker here. But because Mr. Psariano is missing, if you like, you can speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u82	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u83	I too am, Mr President, from the Independent Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u84	You, of course, have been deleted from a parliamentary representative. Now I see you've been to the special speakers. Here's the paper. I was asking the parliamentary representatives. But still, if you have any questions, ask them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u85	No, Mr. President, okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u86	Mr. Kaloger, you can now get yourself locked up from me. Now that Mr Tasoulus takes the floor, then Mr Athanasios Iliopoulou, who is the second Prime Minister, will defend his amendment. Mr. Tasouula, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill under discussion once again facilitates many government amendments. Legislative work has come about and the bills - to use a term of biology - because of the frequency of the phenomenon of 'host' amendments are 'host'. On the one hand - to paradoxically, Minister - it is comforting that there are amendments which have to do with the wrong legislation or the wrong administrative practice of the government that correct it, such as those relating in this bill, because this is why we are voting and incorporating directives as'vehicles' and we are avoiding the criticism of the European Union of delaying the transposition of Union law. Fortunately - because we are on the verge of this directive - that the amendments were in place, and so the government has brought it forward and we avoid giving explanations of delaying directives even for the wrong reason. What can anyone say when there are no amendments, such as the incorporation of directives, today the case of this bill is to be found in amendments? This draft law, as we have said in committee, sets out and slightly extends the existing institutional scope for representation to a third country, to a non-EU country, a citizen of the European Union who is not represented. What does it mean 'is not represented in a third country by a national of the European Union'? It means that his homeland in this third country does not have a diplomatic roof, diplomatic representation, consulate or embassy, consulate and not an honorary consulate or embassy. By placing the non-representative citizen of the European Union under the cover of any European country on its consular rights, this means and shows that the European Union is facing itself as a single state; one would say, an entity in cases of emergency, as the majority colleague, said, such as arrest, detention, committing a crime against a citizen of the European Union, a serious accident or serious illness, death, assistance and repatriation in the event of an emergency, but also temporary travel documents. So the European Union here, in contrast to other areas of its activity, takes a pioneering view of itself as a whole and gives all its citizens this famous consular protection, which is one of the oldest forms of enjoyment of rights under public international law. Of course this innovative concept and implementation of the European Union has two aspects to do with regard to the Greek public and Greek citizens who are abroad in a third country, and this country has no embassy or consulate in Greece or vice versa when a citizen of the European Union - usually, as the Minister said, this is statistically happening with Cypriot citizens - has recourse to the services of the Greek consular authorities. We therefore have a broadening of the concept of rights beyond the borders of the European Union. This bill regulates the exercise of these rights, regulates its own form of extension of these rights and its relatives, since these relatives are with them in that country on the third day, and they do not have the citizenship of any European Union, regulates the matters of reimbursement of the costs incurred by the country which cares for the non-representative citizen, after the fact of his service occurs, how the reimbursement will be effected, how will all of this be settled - I repeat - to complement and further specify the protection provided by the legislation in force in 2001. Therefore, in this draft law, as we have said in committee, one can only be positive and anticipate, Mr President, from now on, that the New Democracy - and it must be noted - is voting 'yes' for the implementation of this directive. With regard to the four amendments which you have referred to, Mr President, I should like to say: The first amendment relates to the regulation of matters relating to the movement by the regions of AME to special privileged services which go and to the regulation of the way in which they are moved, by the movement of pupils of primary and secondary education. This has to do with vehicle leases, which, when it comes to LEI, may also be special vehicles, and extensions of these leases or commissions. Evidently in this case, and since it is an SME, it cannot be negative. However, I would like to point out that this looseness of regulating these issues with successive amendments, namely the leases or extensions of leases of vehicles carrying children or in this respect now, and people with special needs at their place of education or care, must once again be regulated and the government must not be forced to resort to such extensions or legalisations of contracts, which can be both dubious and at the expense of the importance of moving, as in this case being forced to vote despite the fact that the looseness is problematic, and I assume that in a subsequent bill from the Ministry of Transport this issue will be resolved definitively in order to restore normality on these movements. The next amendment concerns the transport of municipal waste by passenger ships...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u88	That is no longer an amendment, Mr Tassoula. It has been voted on in the Standing Committee and it is Article 16. So you're talking about Article 16 now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u89	Good. As far as Article 16 is concerned, I would like to say that Mr Famelos may have termed it as interpretative, but it can also be something more. I would like to say that distrust over this government is not something that one might have to show. I'm afraid it's something that has to be done now, so it's justifiable. I think it can also be a matter of unreasonable expenditure from the Court of Auditors for the transport of such waste. In any event, it is another case of misappropriation, which comes when an administrative or legal problem arises from failures, malpractices, diligences or even illegality by the Government. The solution that comes with the transport of urban waste from islands, as he has told us - and he did not mean Corfu, to repeat his words, but islands such as Samothraki and other islands in the Aegean - is a solution which is obviously not possible, but, at the expense of the reality and the accumulation of waste on islands, that Parliament should be constantly led, understanding the need for a solution that facilitates islands, in parallel clarifications. The need, as is apparent and described, is obvious. We are not negative in this article. We are negative for the government to continue to legislate in this way. The amendment by the Minister of Justice concerning the suspension of the compulsory mediation is yet another leading demonstration of the duplication, urgency, lack of understanding and refusal to have a flexibility and understanding of the opposing views of the current government. What the Opposition said first of all, what the clubs, the plenary of legal associations, said by the Association for the Promotion of the Alternative Forms of Dispute Resolution, said in August, was ignored by the Government and now by the withdrawal and suspension of the order. They are verified with a delay of several months. They are being verified with a loose end which has been created and - in the face of the judiciary which begins in a few days - it has been forced to freeze the order of compulsoryity, because it is obviously unconstitutional, because it is obviously inappropriate and incomprehensible, because it obviously, as the Marios Ice says, creates costs. And the Marios Ice says so, which substitutes the government for the corresponding care of the weakest economic classes. This should be the first concern of the Government. Here we have come today to replace - not by depriving power, but by doing the right thing - the lack of interest of the Government in the weaker classes for the excessive 'costs', as is said by the Marios Ice, caused by the compulsory and mediation phase. So this suspension is not a sign, as the Minister wanted to say in his maiden speech in the House, of the view that 'when you think again, you draw more wise conclusions'. It is a sample, precisely, that when reality takes over, then you are forced, at the last minute, to submit to reality, while many months ago all this had been well unfolded from too many sides here. What he has not told us - and I shall end - Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, is whether this is a suspension or a definitive abolition of compulsory expenditure. So is it a suspension to correct compulsoryity or suspension to remove compulsoryity? Because, in our view, the abolition of compulsoryity is the solution rather than the extension of the outstandingity, for which it has been anticipated by this Step that it will probably extend beyond September 2019 with a later amendment. I will tell you a parameter, to see how the mislegislation - which in particular at this time of governance has reached the record's limits - can affect. There are many lawyers who, while opposed to compulsory legislation, when they saw that they became state law, have been adapted to it and have at their own expense made sure that they undergo an education which gave them the status of mediator. They did so in view of the fact that it was well or badly institutionalised. They spent thousands of euros to be ombudsmen. Now you see mediation doesn't apply. So how diligent do you legislate? We have a bio-professional impact on certain groups of population, and then we say comfortably that we will rethink it, while what has been paid by citizens, in view of the even poor legalisation, is not corrected. That is why I think you should be more prudent in legislating and not have an easy sanctuary of the amendments, because whatever we legislate, even if we correct it afterwards, it has an impact. And these effects are paid by people at a time when these 'pays', to repeat the wording of the Ice Bay, are burdensome. What other amendment is there?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u90	Let her hear Mr. Heliopoulou defend her. The one who will replace me in the Chair can, if you will, give you and the other two minutes for the amendment. It's for the OAED, but because Mr. Helios is here you will hear his position. But hang up now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u91	Good. We'll hear and talk later. However, I would like to stress in the light of this barrage of the amendments and the consequences of the bad legalisation - as I have said to the lawyers who have become ombudsmen - while, if they knew that this would not happen, it might not be done - that it is a very serious act. I will remind you of something, not to imitate it, although it would be a good thing for the country. Solon to blackmail compliance with the laws he imposed, exiled himself for ten years. Think about it!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u92	Mr Eliopoule, you have the floor for five minutes to present your amendment from your point of view and to consider it from there and beyond.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u93	Thank you very much, Mr President. I won't need five minutes. The amendment of a general number 1751 and a special 31 concern a purely administrative problem that has arisen in the OAED. On the basis of Article 63, the OSCE is able to recruit a fixed period of time directly, make individual contracts of employment rather than addressing a contractor, proceeded to the recruitment of cleaning workers. In particular, we are talking about four hundred and fifteen workers, cleaners and cleaners, who work all over the OAED. There has been a significant delay in the payment of these people, and this delay has arisen as a result of the delay of the OAS Commissioner and the Commissioner's disagreement with the AACC, which he believes is progressing properly, but also with the administration of the OAED. So what we are choosing to do is, with this amendment, is that workers immediately take their jobs, because they are already four months unpaid and do not have to resort to courts which will, in any case, be entitled to and will be assigned to them, but with an extra exit. So in this sense we are talking about an amendment which solves an administrative problem, which has arisen from the Commissioner's disagreement with the AACC and the administration of the OAS, which concerns directly four hundred and fifteen workers in cleanliness in the OAED. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u94	And we, Minister. You were fast. Mr. Carras, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u95	I beg to talk later.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u96	He's good to be held. He's got an emergency job. He'll talk as soon as he gets back. The reason is the special speaker of the Golden Dawn Mr Panagiotis Eliopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. By incorporating this 2015 directive, it is attempting to coordinate to facilitate the exercise of the right of citizens of the European Union, to apply for protection to the diplomatic authorities of another Member State of the European Union - from those who are nationals - since their country is not represented in a third country. It is typical of the way in which the European Union has been structured from the outset, the reference to the so-called European citizenship created by the Treaty on European Union for the purpose of building as 'a union that is ever closer to its citizens', as attributes refer to the decision that is being repealed in view of the adoption of this directive. Although the abolition is procedural since it is replaced by the new directive, the idea remains on the basis of an unexistent European citizenship which never existed and never exists in the future, as it seems clear from the new political developments within the European Union. This is one of the main problems of a politically collapsed union, since it has decided to grant all its responsibilities to a bureaucratic priesthood that lives in Brussels away from the problems and pursuits of the people. Regardless of the poor political background of the Union it is known that one of the most fundamental principles governing international law is the principle of reciprocity. This simply means that the citizens of a country are treated in the same way as the citizens of the country with whom they have concluded an agreement. In this context, bilateral relations, particularly with the so-called third countries, namely those outside the European Union, are very important, because they define the way Greek citizens are treated in these countries. This Directive does not concern those relationships that depend on each other in the European Union, but it is a general rule on how the citizens of the European Union will deal with each other if they seek protection in a third country, in which their own state is not diplomatically represented. Therefore, seeking to protect Greek citizens in third countries through the consulate authorities of the European Union is fully legitimate and acceptable. It is not already being implemented on a large scale through the bilateral transnational relations that exist. Enlargement and the introduction of this practice in international and bilateral relations, extends the protection of the Greeks abroad, in the countries of the other continents, especially those in which Greece does not maintain interests, increases personal security and minimises the bureaucratic processes, otherwise required to deal with an exceptional situation of the Greeks abroad. The free access of Greeks to consular protection of other European Union States, together with the types of assistance provided, will create a serious basis for addressing possible risks. Accordingly, the economic procedures provided for shall ensure that the public is not charged with the costs incurred by the assistance provided to a foreign national of the European Union, but its own State as is the case with the Greeks in the relevant case. Finally, in recent years of the economic crisis, Greece has been poorly forced either to remove or to retire many embassies and diplomatic delegations in third countries, even in some who are living permanent Greeks, so that they either remain helpless to a need or to act on their own to another consulate authority of a European Union country, even though this is not explicitly provided for. With this directive, the Undemocratic Hellenism, especially of the African and Asian countries and of small Caribbean countries in which there are consular authorities of other European Union countries, may feel the same security as the citizens of these States. That is why we are going to say'residents' in the bill. In Amendment No 1751 we shall say 'the present'. We consider it to be inappropriate for people to be paid for by amendments. Clearly they must receive their money like all other workers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u98	I am sorry, Amendment No 1752 is not to be paid, it is the Justice Ministry's amendment. To fix it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u99	I shall now say Amendment No 1752. If I was wrong, I meant Amendment No 1751 with what I said about workers. As far as Amendment No 1752 is concerned, we are also going to say 'present' even though it should be better written and otherwise. In Amendment No 1746 on children, we shall be voting in favour of this and on the transfer of pupils. We are in favour of becoming permanent. (EL) Mr President, please regulate this a little, because they are constantly coming every year and for the transport of young people and for the transport of children of all schools, and every year we are renewing the contracts. It can't be done. What's gonna happen? Sometime the kids won't be transferred? It must be a permanent law, which concerns all children and their transport. This thing can't be done all the time. Of course we will vote 'in favour', but do it in a bill to finish it. We will, of course, vote on the maritime transport of waste. We think it is a joke that you are giving this solution. It's not a solution. We shall return to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u100	We too, Mr. Heliopoulou. The reason is the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Stavros Tassos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr President. As we have said in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, despite our reservations about this Consular Protection Convention for Greeks abroad, we will vote in favour because it is a step. Our reservations concern, in particular, the gaps in the protection of workers in general and of seafarers, who are made redundant by multinationals and are still unpaid, and also the lack of care or in any case the lack of care for them. For us too, it is a question of reimbursement of the costs of consular assistance, which should exclude those who have financial weaknesses. This should, in a way, be explicitly mentioned in the bill. But, as I said, despite our reservations, we will vote in favour. With regard to the amendments - and I shall start with the ministerial amendments - 1746 concerning the transfer of pupils and, in particular, the people with disabilities, the AMC, for us, there should be specific instruments with qualified staff, and that, of course, should be made by a public transport system, because the door of the school is, in fact, the door of the school. Therefore those who handle children should also have the equivalent knowledge and means by which they are transported, be safe. We shall vote 'the present'. Now with regard to Amendment No 1747, which was incorporated into Article 16, we have a change in the hands of Article 34(6) of Law No.4316/2014, which allowed the maritime transport of waste within the region, now extends outside the region, and this shipment of waste is carried out by simple line ships, which, of course, jeopardise both the health of passengers and the health of workers. We will vote against it. As far as OAED workers' cleaners, who have very low wages, 300 to 350 euros, were unpaid since May, these women had to resort to the courts, go to costs to pay lawyers to get their jobs. Here, in other words, there is a question. They have been unpaid since May with EUR 300 and 350 wages and have been forced to resort to the courts. We shall of course be voting in favour of it, but there is a serious issue with this. Now with regard to the process of private mediation. We have a parole. That is good, but we are asking for this procedure to be abolished, because it works at the expense of the financially weak. It was a demand for businessmen and BSE and is therefore in favour of them. Therefore, for us suspension is not enough, we will vote 'at present'. I would also like to put myself in the parliamentary amendment by Mr Loverd of PASOK on the abolition of compulsory self-defense and crimes through the press. For us, the self-defense of crimes committed through the press should be abolished in full and not amended the relevant provision of Article 242(3) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, because it is known that this provision has been deleted from the Constitution, but has not been deleted from the Code of Criminal Procedure. Therefore, we are also calling for his complete abolition from the Code of Criminal Procedure. However, we will vote in favour, because although the problem does not solve as a whole, it is a step in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, too. Invitation to the ladies and gentlemen of the Minutes, ladies and gentlemen, or to speak of disabled persons or people with disabilities. We all forget about the old terminology.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u103	...I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u104	No, I didn't say it specifically for you, we all say it. So in the Practical or LEAs it will be written or people with disabilities. We now move on to the special speaker of the Independent Greeks, Mr Katsiki Konstantinos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr President. I'll let you know I'll be brief. I'm not gonna run out of time. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the arrangements for the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are essentially a shield of the rights of all European citizens wherever they are around the world, in third countries in this regard, as they ensure transnational cooperation through the provision of assistance and the practical proof of solidarity between the Member States of the European Union. This draft law by means of the sixteen articles providing for the transposition into national law of the European Directive 637/2015 on consular protection of citizens of the European Union and while already this Directive has been incorporated into the National Law of most Member States. As has already been thoroughly analysed, the diplomatic and consular authorities of Greek democracy will provide consular assistance to citizens of Member States of the European Union in third countries where their State of origin does not have a competent consular or diplomatic authority under the same conditions as to Greek nationals, and inversely, consular protection or assistance to Greek citizens from the other Member States of the European Union where the Greek democracy does not have a similar authority. By incorporating this draft law into national legislation, Greek citizens benefit from the protectionist regulations that apply to all European citizens. As we mentioned in detail at the previous meeting, the citizens of the European Union are considered as non-representative citizens in a third country when the Member State of their nationality has no embassy, consulate or honorary consul in that third country or when exceptional conditions exist, which may temporarily affect the provision of consular protection. On the basis of the provisions to be adopted, then, consular protection is provided to the members of their family, these non-representative citizens in a third country, which are not the same citizens of the European Union and simply accompanying non-representative citizens in the third country. In this way, the European Union's effort to put under the protection of every European citizen, but also its relevant citizens, who are at risk in a third country, is institutionalised. The right of European citizens to seek protection from the embassy or consulate of any Member State has the above principles on a territory of a third country. In this direction, the insurance schemes provided for and specify the procedure for establishing the identity of the person applying for exceptional consular protection, even if he has lost his travel documents and finds it difficult to prove his identity. In this case where the above supporting documents are impossible to produce, it is envisaged that the information of the applicants may be verified either by direct communication of the relevant diplomatic channels between the Member States or by contacting the relevant authorities of the State whose applicants claim to be citizens. These actions are strengthened institutionally with the coordinating role carried out within the competent European Union agencies, as the competent diplomatic authorities undertake to communicate appropriately to the European Commission and the European External Action Service. In particular, diplomatic and consular authorities based in a third country participate in the coordination of emergency plans, cooperate with the relevant third country local authorities and, of course, initiate the procedures for the removal of European citizens from the territory of the third country, in close cooperation with the crisis management structures of the European External Action Service and the Union Civil Protection Mechanism. With the present incorporation of a Directive, the Member States of the European Union undertake to assist its nationals, in accordance with the separate, exceptional circumstances of the case in question, and the corresponding provisions are laid down to ensure the possibility of reimbursement of the costs incurred to the country which provided consular protection to the non-representative citizen. Ladies and gentlemen, we accept as a Member State of the European Union the incorporation of this directive into our national law and we shield our citizens' rights. Of course, the Independent Greeks are voting in favour of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u106	Me too, Mr. Katsiki. We should give the floor to the Minister for the Interior, Mr Haritsis, for five minutes, from his position, to defend his amendment, although the speakers have already placed themselves, and then we continue with Mr Carras, Mr Lykoudis and Mr Cavalela and we are closing down with the Buyers. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u107	Thank you very much, Mr President. I simply do not know whether there is a problem with regard to the amendments we have tabled. Three amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u108	We are now talking about this bill. Is the Commission aware of the fact that some of the amendments tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have been accepted by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and of the fact that
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u109	Yeah, I know. There's two more.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u110	We don't have anyone else, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u111	Hasn't anyone else been filed?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u112	No, we don't have another one. Unless you mean, be careful, the one that has been incorporated into Article 16, which is the amendment with a general number of 1747, which you too are signing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u113	I don't mean her.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u114	From there on, it is one of Mrs Ahtsoglou, who was supported by Mr Helios and by Mr Kalogeros, who was supported by Mr Kalogerou. To us, as yet, but also to the services, as I have said, no other amendment has been tabled. So you're talking about this one amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr President. For this amendment, therefore, I would like to inform the Section that we are tabling an amendment which substantially extends the regulation which we have had a short time ago in relation to the transfer of pupils, the responsibility of the regions. We therefore extend this arrangement to disabled, minors and adults, in order to facilitate the transfer of disabled people to and from the facilities of the certified bodies of the National Care System. It is an arrangement which facilitates the transfer of people with disabilities and their families to the centres.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u116	Thank you very much. Does anyone want to ask the Minister something? Nobody. Minister, you're free to leave if you're busy. We shall proceed with Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr President. I must say that the step taken in the sense of European citizenship has provided the opportunity and already there is legislation that citizens of Member States can be served and protected by states that do not have their own citizenship, Member States - Member States of the European Union, states of the European family. In this sense, therefore, the incorporation of the directive - which is requested - into the Greek legal order and which is considered to be protective for Greek citizens who are abroad, in third countries, where there is no diplomatic Greek delegation and are covered by the existing diplomatic - consular authority of another Member State, respectively, the Greek consular authorities will provide protection for citizens of other Member States - Member States of the European Union, where there is no diplomatic mission of their place of origin, their nationality. It is therefore extremely important that this directive, which provides for such protection. In fact, I must say that it is possible and delayed, because the customary international law regulating the relations of the consular authorities and the issues of civil protection through consulates has been incorporated, codified - if you like - by the 1963 Vienna Convention, which is the United Nations. It became global law, because a large majority of countries have ratified it, including Greece. I am simply making the point, Mr President, because while the Vienna Convention is 1963, the dictatorship at that time was not interested in or wanted to participate in international agreements and was integrated into Greek democracy after the transformation in 1975. I would also like to remind you of the Convention of the Council of Europe, which was incorporated into Greek legislation in 2001, which regulates relations between the consular authorities. Improving, therefore, is this European directive, which now defines the coordination and cooperation of diplomatic authorities to provide non-representative citizens of the Member States with protection in the event of an emergency. Of course, this directive has a piece of protection - as I have said in committee - because it refers exclusively to personal relations and I refer specifically to Article 7 of the draft law now, which refers to the types of assistance. I voted in committee for the debate that Greek legislation should also be put before the European Union, even after consulting the European Union, in order to protect Greek interests in third countries from diplomatic missions, consular authorities in other European countries and, in particular, maritime issues. Of course, they have received the answer from the Minister that there is cooperation with the Cypriot authorities, but it is not enough as a whole - I think - in the countries of the world which have at least a maritime border, where commercial shipping is moving. So to raise a question of protecting not only the crew, which are already protected by the directive which seeks to integrate today, but also of protecting the maritime and commercial interests of the Greek houses or Greek interests from diplomatic authorities from other Member States - in countries where Greece does not have a presence and, respectively, to protect for these interests, so that in an image, of course, globalisation, which is currently being called into question by the major economic forces, the reversal of the course can be seen in the presence of the Greek interests. Can I get you an example if you want? In Pacific countries, in many small countries, there are neither diplomatic missions nor are they able to exist. In a ship's abaria, in a shipwreck, should no one, a portman, a consular port manager, either Greek or European countries nearby to give the help? That's what I put. Furthermore, I have also raised the issue of the indicative nature of the assistance. Because he has a record, I see, of six cases. It will be possible for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to extend to cases of urgency, to extend and not always to the letter of the law, because both the directive and the provision, as proposed, allow for the extension of protection. Let us look for solutions. Since little - the main issues have been mentioned, another issue to which I wish to refer is the question of financial compensation which Greece claims when paying fees, rights or compensation the third country - a member who protected the Greek citizen. These can be charged against the Greek citizen. Many times it is low, so it is not worth it if it is consular fees, which are a few dozen euros, but many times it can be very large when there is a need for hospitality, when there is a need to transport deceased and all this. Since we are in an economic crisis, I have also put it to the Minister and, of course, he has said that under the law he can ask the person concerned and that a circular will be issued, but I would say something else, to put something more into the law in the sense of criteria for social or incomes, so that, indirectly but clearly, it will be compulsory to delete the debt rather than demand. Because if we stay with 'can', it can be potentially and someone else can be judged that it can not be able to get rid of it. I therefore think that we should supplement, if you are kind, Minister, at this point, income and social criteria and at least give a minimum commitment. Otherwise, in the morning, I listened to the radio that there was a storm of "Xenophon" in Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u118	Incubate.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u119	Mr. Lykoudis, I was talking about this morning coming out of my house. And I come to this House and see that there is a storm of amendments, because in this bill we already have four ministerial amendments to the next of the Ministry of Health, which I am once again rapporteur, we have so many others and we do not know how much they will reach until later. So this introduction gives me the right to refer a little to the amendments. Before all, I'll start with that of the Justice Department. Allow me, Mr President, a preference in this respect. Mr. Lykoudis knows, we've discussed it. It concerns the suspension of compulsory mediation. No one will question that mediation was a reform, progress. But here, questions are being raised. Was the government strongly voted and passed relatively recently, and today the suspension comes on what grounds? On the ground that the administrative plenary of the Ice Bay expressed objections of constitutionality. I can say that the Minister for Justice has explained it sufficiently well, and I did indeed like the way that a young man was placed in the House. I don't have anything to lie about. But I have to say that. Has the leadership of the Ministry of Justice not taken into account the objections that existed before, has it not parked them and is being forced today? Has it shown a perseverance, Mr Tassoula, in this direction - I also address Mr Katrugalo as legal - the then leadership of the Ministry of Justice, not to listen to third-party opinions? I was surprised. And why did I stand, ladies and gentlemen? Because the administrative Plenary Assembly of the Ice Bay, such as the administrative assembly of each Supreme Court, is aimed at what? The decongestion of the courts. To leave cases, to go to other alternative forms of justice performance, so that judges can perform more deeper judicial work and get rid of the large number of appeals. So the government comes in and says: 'The Marios Ice tells us this', which means that the Marios Ice - my experience is, I may be mistaken - has led dozens of times legislation on the dismantling of courts and the acceleration of their own. They have never succeeded, but it has no value in our debate today. Says the Marios Ice "watch out, I don't want them to be dismantled with the political courts, through mediation, because they are suffering". So the government really suffers and should not only suspend this process, but should immediately initiate a debate so that in depth a solution can be found to it and remove, if you wish, the costs which will arise and determine the costs which will be incurred - and so that an invoice and everyone can be able to appeal because of what I have heard there, the Marios Ice, had their reservations and objections. That is why, because it is a legislation which is now old legislation, in our view, the Democratic Assent in this provision will be placed in the 'present'. I now come to a next subject, because I see that I still have time to deal with the major issue that has been created in recent days by arresting journalists, by applying the self-confidence procedure, to the break-up. There have been too many tensions and objections and many opinions and what has happened if you want? What did Justice say? He said, I don't know if a crime has been committed to refer to the court of law. I want further preliminary examination, to verify, to see if an illegal act has been carried out. What does that say to us? It tells us something else that it is time to make the incision and the press offences not to observe the self-confidence or, at least, not to observe those of the press which are of daily use, such as exulting, simply or confusing defamation, so that they are protected, of course, because it has the right to prosecute the offender and civil lawsuits in order to seek the restoration of the press, but not to be put under snare many times, because we all know how many times - and in the past and we see it today, and we fear it - that there is a misuse of the complaints so that they can shut down some mouths. Mr Loverdos, my parliamentary representative and colleague, has tabled an amendment calling for the abolition of the self-determination procedure in the press and defining who, apart from exalting, simple and slandering, is always considered self-sufficient. The Minister for Foreign Affairs is present and he will tell me that he does not have responsibility for the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u120	I'm the expedited Minister. I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u121	Okay. Please, be seated. It's okay, we take it. But I am also going further and expressing a personal view on this, which I have already expressed in writing. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Does the Greek state need, in general terms, either from the public space or from the private area, to use the self-contained procedure, which is a process of dissipation obscured and anachronistic, when - from this point of view - the Greek legislation over time drops off the smaller offences, those with lower penalties of five years and are also here beyond exaltation, mere defamation? When the state comes on a cause, it writes these for the purpose of dismantling the courts and comes for the heaviest crimes, such as Professor Paraskevi's well-known law and even refers to a reduction of penalties for felony. I therefore believe that at least the time has come for the self-defense procedure to be abolished, or even for the faults of up to three years. We should give the image of a modern country and leave the images of cannibalism that we live many times either from pre-emptions or from blackmail or intimidation, as I will be allowed to view the last issue with journalists. I would like to end, Mr President, by congratulating the Minister on his amendment to Mr Loverdos's amendment, and to conclude, Mr President, by saying: in relation to the amendment on the maritime transport of waste, which is already Article 16 of the draft law, Parliament has been voting for the third time on the sea transport of waste from the islands. I support and believe that it is mainly about Aegina to solve last year's problem, where the islands there filled with garbage. It may also concern Corfu. I don't have a personal picture so I can tell about Corfu. I think, however, that in this way of legislating and every time we say, you know, we are improving the same legislation, we are making a permanent tolerance not to go to an environmental solution to the problems of waste on the ground, not to go to an environmental solution to composting, parceling and separating. We say: Take them, sir, put them on board with the passengers and transfer them to the Ghost or anywhere else. Therefore, and this shows a rough solution, it does not tackle the heart of the problem, and I am also obliged in this article, as in the previous debate with the Law of the Ministry of Shipping, to give the vote'residents' and not a positive vote, because we fear that this regime is being permanent and it is a bad picture for me to go to the ferry - Botts to take my weekend to a small island and to be most of the cars of wastewater and to try to get beyond it so that I am not disturbed. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr. Carras. The special speaker from Potami, Mr Lykoudi, now has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u123	Mr President, I will be brief. There has already been a very interesting debate on the issues being discussed and on the transposition of the directive and on the amendments, which obliges me to be brief, because many aspects of the issues have been developed and particularly interesting arguments - I say this and I mean it - on these issues. As far as the incorporation of the European directive is concerned, it is clear that it is a defence of the rights of European citizens in the management of their issues and in the defence and management of these rights. In this sense we are positive about the proposed incorporation into Greek law. I'd say he's late and he's here. Not only are we dealing with the issue positively, but it has been delayed and come, because it is quite clear that it is trying to defend classical functions and rights of European citizens when managing their own issues and their own daily lives where they are, where they are and where they are engaged. Now, as far as the amendments are concerned: For Amendment No 1746, the amendment provides for the proportionate application of Article 63 of Law 4415/2016 which regulates the transfer of primary and secondary school pupils. It shall incorporate all Article 63 for a pro rata application whereby regions may undertake the transport of SMUs from their place of residence to establishments certified by their own stakeholders and needs. Look, the transfer system of students has always been a window for direct assignments. There is no colleague in this Chamber who does not know that and does not accept it. And this is not now a criticism of a poor option, it is a clear reference to a reality. Isn't that right? It's nothing new. The leaders of the Ministry of Education over a decade have not attempted to rationalise this situation. Studies have been carried out by experts for proper planning and reduction of waste, but the system insists on reaching the "amen" situation when we cannot do anything different. Anxiety competitions, last minute emergencies, etc. And so that we always get to the point where the awards are made directly. Article 63 intensifies the settlement of a last-minute situation. In other words, it provides for the possibility, by means of a reasoned act, for the region concerned to enter into negotiations without a notice, with the exception of the provisions on the approval of the negotiation procedure. In addition, an amendment to Article 63 shall give time-limits for contracts to be performed by adjusting the terms. The amendment also allows regions to apply direct awards for the transport of small and medium-sized enterprises, in order to deal with the immediate delays in the start-up of services in cases where it has not been shown to have been bidders, that is, in general tenders which are constantly in the air. I would like to ask: until when will this problem be dealt with by amendments that are recurring periodically each year, so as to finally blackmail the uninterrupted transport of either pupils or young people by means of means of transport hired by the regions on the basis of one, if not dull, but I would say a relatively strong legislative framework at the limits of legality? Mr Haritsis told us before, with reference to his amendment, that he will try to table or table proposals in the need to improve this system. I did not hear the proposals, I suppose he has tabled them, but it is good when we are discussing, to have a full picture of the issue, to be a little more detailed, especially when they are presented by Ministers of Ministers. However, we will obviously be positive in the amendment, there is no doubt at all, I am simply putting forward thoughts and questions, which may help to clarify a few issues. For Amendment No 1747 relating to the maritime transport of waste, the conditions for the transport of municipal waste by passenger ferries on scheduled routes are redefined here. I have a frequent presence on an island affected by this story. I am referring to Aegina, which cannot manage its own waste and the shipment of waste water is extremely unpleasant on all sides in this area. Look, this regulation, in my opinion, is essential because, on the one hand, it concerns the implementation of the waste management measures provided for in the MDGs and, in particular, maritime transport, which is particularly provided for in island regions and, on the other, because there is a direct closure of uncontrolled waste disposal sites, and, on the other hand, it prevents the creation of new installations for such waste. That is why we shall vote 'yes' in this amendment, without reservation. Amendment No 1751 refers to the costs incurred to date for the cleaning of buildings where OAED services are housed. Look, there's a matter here. First of all, there is the problem of whether you might refuse to pay paid services and whether in a period where there is suffocating financial pressure in large sections of the population, you can tell a cleaner or a cleaner who has done a job, has cleaned up buildings and expects to be paid in this general economic difficulty, "you know, here there is a problem, the way in which you are trying to solve your question is strange, it is difficult, it is a question of poor time management, so what to do, you will not be paid." No one can say that. In this sense, no one can say no to this amendment. But there is one issue. Until when will the ex post legalisation of expenditure be available? This is not the first time that the ex post legalisation of expenditure is foreseen, because there is a mismanagement of time and a mismanagement of how the services operate. The Minister is now saying that there has been a misconception or disagreement by the Commissioner with the OAED on the way in which the matter should normally be resolved and in that sense we cannot do anything else. So this difficulty arises in the way the matter is dealt with. Look, one cannot deny it and table a negative vote, but we will vote 'the present'. Because at some point there must also be an objection from the Greek Parliament to the way the state operates in these matters. On Amendment 1752, which relates to the extension of the suspension, Mr Karras said a few very interesting things. I have no reason to repeat them. I think it was very substantial what he said. There's a matter. For a whole period of time, the lawyers, the Marios Ice, the interested parties, the people involved and the contacts with the subject were subjected to objections, reservations, doubts, proposals for reviewing some parts of this process. The Government of the Republic of Cyprus has failed to fulfil its obligations under the EC Treaty and has failed to fulfil its obligations under the He did not, in any case, deprive himself of it. He was not indifferent, not to use any deeds that might be bothering. I get it. I understand that. He was inert, though. At least let us admit this, that it has worked inertly because it has not tackled with a substantial interest what has been submitted all this time and is coming back and it says that many of these objections have been true, and that is why it extends the suspension. Look at that. And at this point we cannot say 'no', but there will be 'no' here too. There will be 'at present', because it has to work on the warning bell, that it is not possible to manage functions and time and then try to correct them. If the correction is to be made, will someone tell me, should they be a Member of the Greek Parliament who is negative? Oh, no. But it's going to hit the bell of bad operation. This is the concept of 'present'. Now my last report is on Mr Loverdo's amendment. I must tell you that a corresponding amendment to the whole Housearians of the River Parliamentary Group has been tabled with the same or about the same content, and this has to be tackled seriously. I don't know if the Minister's coming to answer. Mr Katrugalos has direct, substantial and full knowledge of the subject and could give us useful information on it. We all know that the 2001 Constitution has been revised and the story of the self-confidence has been cut, but the joint legislator has not been adapted. We have to do something. The day before yesterday, we saw four journalists being detained at the station at night, and this morning being referred to for trial, because one of their posts, a report, even if we consider that he had extreme wording, he touched a minister. So what?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u124	Will we make a distinction in the law, Mr. Vice President?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u125	What distinction, Mr. Colleague?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u126	In another law, will we deal with the common mortals and other large-publishers?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u127	Why is that? The big and the small journalists and the common mortals? Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u128	Excuse me for interrupting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u129	In any case, you are not right now. There are a lot of ways, if we want to react to one, in our view, badly trusted publication. We can try to correct it, as with the Minister's intervention, which says'send my own response to the same position, that you put the post' and much more.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u130	He said it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u131	Against them, the cuffs from the police are not a solution, Mr. Comrade. I beg your pardon now if the President of your party was to blame, but that is not a solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u132	Okay, change the law. Otherwise, we'll keep him.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Mr. Lykoudi, special speaker from the river. Last of the special speakers is Mr. Dimitrios Kavalellas from the Association of Centres. You have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the directive coming from the Council of the European Union. The aim of this directive is to establish the necessary cooperation and coordination measures to facilitate the provision of consular protection to persons who are not represented Union citizens, when they are in a third country, that is to say they do not have their own consulate in a country that can be contacted. Therefore, there is the question of facilitating these citizens from another consulate in a country that belongs to the European Union. With this draft law, and with this directive, the Member States must provide consular protection for citizens, who are not represented and who do not have their own consular authority on the same conditions as apply to their own nationals. We agree and shall vote 'yes' in principle and on the articles. We have nothing more to add. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr. Cavadela. The Minister has the floor for eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the directive itself, which we incorporate, I think there was a general agreement from all sides about its positive dimension at two levels: firstly, it is the practical level. It helps our fellow citizens where we do not have consular authorities. Following questions put to me in committee, I should like to give you the exact statistical information. We have representation with an embassy or consulate in eighty three countries. We have another nineteen states outside the European Union, unpaid Greek authorities, namely consulates, which provide supplementary protection, not of the same quality as our official authorities. The second level, to which this bill has a positive dimension, is that it applies in practice the concept of European citizenship, which, as you know, is complementary to national nationality. One cannot be a European citizen unless he is at the same time a citizen of Greece, France or Cyprus. In a way, it is a pretext for the future political deepening of the European Union. Here, unfortunately, I would like to point out that, at the level of social citizenship, we do not have the extension expected of this concept. Despite the positive measures and judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union, this general suspicion about the other concerns citizens of Europeans who are moving. In the name of combating so-called'social tourism', we have seen the concept of European citizenship not having the same application in this area. With regard to other matters, which - I think Mr Carras - have been given answers to the committee on the need to complete the indicative listing of the type of assistance and, at the same time, to apply a previous decision which is directly applicable and does not need to be transposed into national law. The Council Decision of 19 December 1995 on implementing measures for the protection of citizens of the European Union by diplomatic and consular delegations provides, I think, sufficient and detailed details of the implementation. I come to the amendments. I have to tell you that as a constitutionalist I had a very different idea of how to deal with amendments such as these, i.e. irrelevant to the current bill, because of the clear ban that you know exists in the Constitution. I have therefore seen, in the context of the need for administration, that we really have here, not just a gap, but a problem, which we have to decide how to deal with, given the revision. There are cases which may indeed be due to a failure to predict. Usually, however, reality has more surprises than the imagination of the legal or governmental ones can catch up. So people need to be paid tomorrow, because there is probably a problem of perception by the Commissioner or students should be transferred. How was this matter resolved before, again, unconstitutional? A ministerial decision was issued without regulation and retrospectively came and was ratified by parliament. This court is right to say that it is not constitutional. It could be a legislative act. In my opinion, it is a greater insult to the Parliament's ability to legislate and it is also a misuse of the urgency and unpredictable need for this nature that I described to you. Other legal classes - French, German - provide for an autonomous regulatory authority of the administration for minor similar matters. I'm not absolutely sure. And I am telling you this in view of the forthcoming constitutional review as an urge that we have a real debate on this issue, when we have this issue up, that we are ready. Who's the adversary? That we will give the executive power a white card, which, if it is used only for minor issues, such as those that we are now discussing, does not create a problem and rather does resolve the issue positively. But it is for further analysis. All the amendments which have been tabled do not have anything hidden, some political feasibility, some intention of benefiting much less. They are responding precisely to this need to deal with the relatively unpredictable one, with an exception, which I shall refer to in greater detail - because there was by colleagues, particularly by Mr Carrassoures arguments - the one concerning judicial mediation. Look, we as a government and as a Parliamentary majority wanted a number of issues which were outstanding, because they were complicated because they had political costs - from forest maps and land registers to insurance reform - to move on to reforms. So one who wants to rule and who has a political perception of the politically correct or wrong, always in his own view. That is why there is democracy in order to conflict these political perceptions of correctness. This view goes into consultation and, depending on the prevailing one, not only at the level of the debate but also at the call for what good we come to serve, you conclude. What did we want to do with mediation? Accelerate the pace of justice. It is one of the main problems facing us, not only our judicial system, but the whole political and economic system. If you see the reasons why investors are reluctant to invest in Greece, the first reason is the uncertainty about the regulatory environment and the second is the delay in the administration of justice. Furthermore, if mediation - which, if not compulsory, does not resolve this issue, which is why we have made it compulsory - is planned to do so in such a way that it is not harmful, especially for the poorest, it may also be helpful for them at the economic level. So here we are at this point. We have no doubt about the compulsion of mediation, because an unmanageable mediation, as has been tried in the past by governments, who did not want to take political costs from a necessary reform, in our view, but also in their opinion, would not go any further. It is not, at the moment, a question of compelling or not, but of discussing something at the Ministerial Council, that is to say how we will deal with the issue of excessive costs, particularly for categories of parties, particularly workers in labour disputes, which may actually be borne by these costs. Why now and not then? Because it has now been raised, beyond the question of good or evil, which is a matter of political decision, and a question of constitutionality or unconstitutionality with a marginal majority indeed, an advisory decision, but a decision, which I think we could only take into account. For this reason, I think that the Minister of Justice has rightly suspended implementation so that we can see how with an extension of consultation, taking into account not only the feasibility, but also the unconstitutionality raised, we will reach a definitive settlement. Indeed, the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Tassoula, was right in saying that these arguments were also raised in the context of political controversy, but obviously it is different when they are raised at political level and when he says so a plenary sitting in a supreme court. It must be resolved, not the issue - I say again - of the political choice between the politically correct and the other viewpoint, but of the legal and constitutional correctness. I now come to something that I think that, despite the good intention, legal adequacy and good faith, which was put forward by the rapporteurs, it does not come in the way that it should be raised as a major issue and there may also be political intentions - I say again that I do not ascribe them to those who have been put forward - for its relaunch now. Obviously, I have consulted the Minister for Justice to give you this answer, beyond my own personal additional opinion as a legal expert. I'm obviously talking about the self-defenses of the press crimes. Look: The Greek constitutional class was ranging. The Constitution of 1927 explicitly predicted that it was not self - light. The later constitutions reversed this provision of press protection and made it strict in view of the need to protect the citizen. The 2001 Review came and I rightly share the opinion that here the protection of freedom of the press is the main one and must be brought into line with the need to protect the citizens' and politician's honours. But then I will mention an additional legitimate interest that exists now. What did the 2001 Review say? Take note of this now, because this has not been taken into account enough by the Delegation. It was annulled in Article 14(7), but it included a provision for rapid judgment. This means that if we want to be fully compatible with the constitutional provision, we must be particularly careful about how to transfer this provision to the Criminal Code. The Minister of Justice has assured me that we are in the final processing phase of the Criminal Code, and that will be dealt with. What is the additional legitimate interest I have invoked? We are at a time when special use is being made - and not just of the new social media - of extensive misinformation, of the so-called make news. Why aren't the make news protected from freedom of expression? Not because they are harming, but because in fact it is the refusal to have a freedom of opinion. The great, politically liberal scientist Hannah Arent said that when there is a question of events - whether there is one or not there - there can be no freedom of opinion. Because we believe it to be the case in view of the real situation. If the reality is differentiated, for one another and for another, how can there be freedom of opinion? So democracies must be protected from this deliberate misinformation, which has existed in the past, but now it is being systemic. I now come to say why I consider it politically hypocritical that the issue should be raised in an unrelated bill from political areas, not Potami, which had fourteen years together with the New Democracy, to form as they would like the Criminal Code. Because in 2001 I said that we had the revision of the Constitution. Why did this initiative by PASOK not solve fourteen years, which it ruled - and also by the New Democracy? I am addressing PASOK because the legislative provision came from a Member of Parliament, of course, in the context of the new political formation. In my opinion, there is a more general political hypocrisy, this time more in the New Democracy area. Why, when the process of the self-defense has been used by your party leader, by former Prime Minister, Mr Samaras, at the expense of a journalist, who was led to the detention and by Mr Stournara, former Minister of Finance of your resignation, how can you now be cut and slit your clothes, why is a provision that you have not just changed it, but have also invoked it, used it at the highest possible level of your party? Isn't this a classic two-mile and two-stage case? To tell you the truth, it also seems a comedy attempt to commit or heroize journalists who are not dragged into the self-defense. They are fabulously shown to obtain some titles of honor, because of that reason. So I think we should be serious. This is a very serious matter. It is not just about freelance and price protection and citizens and politicians. It is about the quality of democracy when it comes to dealing with theake news. That is why we as a government, who want them to be reformed, want them to be democratically in favour of rights, will bring in the new Criminal Code a regulation combining the protection of all the legal goods and rights that I have described. I also call on you in the constitutional review, not only on this subject, to show the same need, the same creativity in the need to serve our democracy and rights.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u137	Thank you very much for the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Katrugalo. Before giving the floor to the parliamentary representatives, who have informed me that they will speak for a while, to give the floor to the Minister for the Interior, Mr Haritsis, because he has tabled an amendment, to tell us what it is all about. If there are questions, they should now be submitted and we should proceed with the previous procedure. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u138	Mr President, thank you very much. First of all, let me say that I fully understand that it is a bad practice to table amendments at the last minute and, as an expedient Minister, I have to apologise for that. I am referring to this amendment. From that point of view, however, I think that it is understood by the Department that this amendment, on the one hand, has an economic impact, should have been assessed in detail by the General Accounting Office of the State and, on the other hand, has the character of urgency in the sense that it relates to the economic relief of natural disasterd persons. Based on the element of retrospectiveness included in this provision, it also covers the great natural disaster, the fires of July 23, 2018. This amendment, then, number 1758, allows for exemption from municipal fees for owners of immovable property, which are in areas which have been declared in an emergency because of a fire or flood earthquake, and have been declared non-residentable. These owners are therefore exempted from municipal cleaning and lighting charges, electricity supply tax and real estate charge for the period during which such property is non-resident and are therefore not used. This is a general provision. It concerns the natural disasters that fall under this category, which create this emergency situation from now on for the future, but it also has the character of retrospectiveness, as I have said before, so that we can also cover the victims of the natural disaster of the fire of 23 July. What, in our view, is important is that the beneficiary does not need to take any action. It is provided for by the provision that, on its own initiative, the construction services of the respective municipalities will seek from the Ministry of Infrastructure the autopsy reports on which property they have been classified as non-resident and therefore fall under the provisions of this provision. We've been in contact with the municipalities. They will be able to cover the loss of revenue resulting from this arrangement from other sources: from non-qualified revenues, which does not fall within the revenue for compensation services. So, in our view, it is a very important provision for the economic relief of the victims of the disaster, which took place in the summer and beyond. It is important to be broadly accepted and voted in favour of the Department. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u139	Mr President, I would like the floor for a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u140	Here you go, Mr. Carras. You may ask.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u141	Minister, I would like to ask the following question: is it not exempted from municipal charges already since the 1958 Decree, unused and non-electrical property? What is the need for new legislation? If we look at Article 20 of 1958, we see that it relieves them. It's the well-known theme of electrodes, and it's not.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u142	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u143	The provision we are tabling today concerns a much wider category than the one you describe. We are talking about real estate, which cannot be inhabited for some time, but then, if necessary, they will be residential. Of course, they'll pay. But we're talking about relief right now. Very important, in our view, is the methodology of this process. The fact that the owner of the property does not need to take any action, but the municipality itself, the competent services of the municipality, will, on its own initiative, be addressed to the Ministry of Infrastructure and will seek lists of the property concerned, in order to proceed with the exemption from these charges.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u144	You're welcome, Mr. Carras. That's what we're closing up with.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u145	Let me remind you, Minister, that in the recent multi-brand plan of the Ministry of the Interior, Article 222, your partners know that - they solved these problems. I don't want more. I would simply remind you that it has been voted on, not for natural disasters, but for all unused property.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u146	Good. Someone else doesn't exist. To return to the previous procedure. To give the floor to Mr. Treasury. I've been informed that you want to take the floor for a while.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u147	Mr President, I am not going to go far because the issue of the legislation - and not only this - has been covered by the rapporteur for the Staff Regulations, Mr Tasoula. The temptation, which led me to take the floor, is, first of all, the phenomenon of the amendments, which, for some strange reason, for example, while I noticed Mr Haritsis' kindness to the need to table an amendment, yet as a global government practice, is not only deteriorating and expanding, but also increasing constantly. In other words, the government, through its Ministers, believes in the need for good legislature, expresses the opinion of the wrong choice of permanent amendments, but nonetheless, nothing prevents it from taking it. And I am not talking about yours, Mr Haritsis, because I understand you, and at any rate, if any amendment had to come today, I would admit that it is yours. However, the government as a whole, through the method of the amendments, attempts to cover the poor governance of the place it exercises. You will see that the issues covered by the amendments only exceptionally cannot be. There are obvious malfunctions in the state machine, I am not necessarily saying you all started from this government period, but in any case here, we are talking about a four-year government which can no longer invoke the past. So the phenomenon of the amendments goes on and I say that it should be stopped. Honestly, I would like the Bureau and its President to inform the Government that from the day after that the Rules of Procedure will be fully applied and no such amendments will come to stop once and for all. There is no chance that we can convince the government that this must stop. It will only stop if Parliament, by exercising its sovereign right, is serious about the exercise of its legislative work. Mr Van den Broek, President-in-Office of the Council. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the President-in-Office of the Council on his excellent report. You said former Prime Minister - it does not mean repeating names here - former Minister transferred it. Well? If I remember correctly, your government came to power to change bad texts, not to...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u148	Do you disapprove that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u149	Excuse me, a government's logic is not the criticism of the opposition, but rather to govern, to propose legislative work. If, in the course of its legislative work, it considers it necessary to exercise any criticism in the past, this is a self-evident follow-up and welcome. The accreditation approach, however, of the type: "You have done bad things, so we are entitled to do nothing and think or do the same bad things that you have done", as if evil were to justify evil, the error to justify error, the flaw to justify a flaw, is not a government approach. And yet it is not a governmental approach after four years. However, I must say to you this: the problem here lies not only in the legal issue itself, but in the fact that the Minister of Government is taking this issue and uses these provisions. So the question is, is the Government as a whole, regardless of what happened in the past, - do you want to discuss it in the context of your position? - the government as a whole, which you represent, what it says. Has the Minister done well or has he done badly? Because that's what we're asking for. Take a seat. If you say that your Minister did well to hear your position. If you say that your Minister has badly done, we will also be in favour of your position. But please do not go back to the past as a way of not placing yourself on your specific government practice.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u150	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u151	Please, Minister, for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u152	Thank you. The reason why I answer is precisely because I think it is in favour of the parliamentary speech, when I express my opinion, which I disagree with and which I consider to be unfounded, but which is expressed with decency and with an effort to base on arguments, to respond. I think this generally promotes the quality of political life and dialogue. Why are you wrong? If I said that others did the same and I did not say what I said, in the middle of the forthcoming revision of the Criminal Code, you would be absolutely right. And when I talked about what former Prime Minister or former Minister did, I did not do it to undo the responsibility we have to bring the legislation under which we will be judged, but to show the hypocrisy of political criticism, which I think is there. You have asked me whether or not I think it is right that he should use the existing legal framework to defend his honour. I'll tell you that, if there is, and he judged so, I can't say that he acted in a way which is contrary to either the law or the Constitution. I can tell you, however, directly that if you consider this problem to be equally problematic, you think the former Prime Minister and the former Minister did the same. You can't have two criteria. So I return the question by telling you that if you have disapproved of what Mr. Kammenos has done, is it possible not to disapprove what Mr. Samaras has done? It's logically impossible. And we're not talking about an endless past, we're talking about two years ago with the same real facts. You can also imagine that the influence, just by the prestige, of a Prime Minister or a former Prime Minister is greater than that of a minister. As far as the other issue of the amendments is concerned, I think that all the wings have to agree on something, what I said earlier: to have everyone's opinion, but not his reality. I therefore urge you to compare, because we are talking about statistical data, the number of amendments to the governments of the New Democracy with the number of amendments to our Government. This will allow the average person, precisely because we are talking about numbers and numbers are not questioned, to have a clear view of who respects and who does not respect parliamentary function. Let me leave the fact that there may also be amendments, the famous 'night' amendments, which may hide other things. Let us leave this completely aside, although it has an essential dimension in the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u153	So I don't put up next to the hour.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u154	I say that we did not do this, but because it is difficult to prove, I say to you this very simple thing: we will have elections difficult.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u155	European elections.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u156	And European elections and others. We must allow the average Greek to judge on the basis of the facts. So I say to you a glorious field: compare them and discuss them. We, acts of legislative content, did not get out after 2016, except for the one we have now made for the fires. To measure the legislative acts that you had during the same - economic crisis, you and we - had to deal with and see the amendments. Then we can have a debate on who respects or does not.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u157	Mr. Xydakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank my colleagues too. I think that the debate on the ratification of this agreement on European citizenship and the provision of consular services to Member States' citizens has been dealt with almost by all parties as a positive step, a positive practice. Now, whether it promotes European citizenship or whether it will provide substantial and first-class consular services, we will see that in future. I wish it to be properly and fully implemented and to be a step in this long and painful process of creating a European consciousness. We've got a long way to go. At the moment, what we are seeing is the payrolls and differences between the Member States and the nation states, but we are taking a step. Now, on the basis of the amendments, there has been a debate. I think that the most important policy is the self-sufficient ones, which have been discussed and the suspension of the obligability of mediation. For the first time, Mr Tasoulou said in his speech that we have to be suspicious with the government. It is politically correct, but philosophically I think that the government is now preliminarily guilty, there is the presumption of guilt. And as an eminent legal and experienced parliamentarian, Mr Tasoulos knows that we are on the presumption of innocence and are considering from the suggestions and actions. So here, on the occasion of mediation, we see pathogens both of the judiciary and of the political system, which is in a cylindrical way. In 2010 the extrajudicial mediation was passed and said before Mr Kaloger, the Minister of Justice, that from 2010 until today, one-off appeals have been brought to this service. In other words, a law was passed, which aspired to reform the system and decongested the courts, and for six, seven, eight years it did not bring anything, precisely because it was optional and precisely because both the judicial system and the legal system denounced this process either because it did not know it or because it did not have the expected benefits. It is the government's legislation last year, in this past period, which we still have to deal with, the obligability of mediation, that is a reaction, which was expressed by the suggestion made by the Administrative Chamber of the Ice Bay, by votes of twenty-one to eight, which is a suggestion - that there may be financial damage and that the weaker ones should be wronged. In order to comply with this suggestion and with this expression of the judiciary, the government, while respecting the third pillar of power, temporarily suspends the compulsory mediation. At the same time, the Minister for Justice announces that, in these days we are talking, meetings have been held, to consult and proceed with the regulated, corrected requirement. The role of counter-population, of course, is to criticise, criticise and enthusiasm, trying to correct. But here, we have all the moves. In the end, the question we are called upon to consider, as a legislative body, is whether we want to dismantle the system of courts and whether we want to get to a administration of justice, which is fair and functional for society itself. Part of the economic crisis is delays in the courts, reaching the limit of veto. The Community's relevant studies, in relation to the pace of justice in the European Member States, show Greece as a sad champion, with four, five, six years in which to make a case finalise. The weak Greek is wronged, the small business is wronged, and any business or any citizen wants to end his case. They are hostages of the administrative courts, the administrative courts and the officials, as well as of every Greek who are in dispute with the public, citizens and businesses are hostages in the civil courts. We must, however, decide that this somehow has to go ahead. Finally, as a journalist for thirty years, I would agree that, although it has been provided for in the Constitution in the past, it has not been incorporated into the Criminal Code, and indeed the judges and prosecution authorities and the affected citizen are using the law and we have known phenomena in handcuffs and inventories. It does not fit either in our political culture or in the culture of Greek society. We're not that litigant, despite what we're talking about. In other states they have a bigger record. The point, however, is that this is the institutional one, for which the Minister for Justice has also announced an initiative that it will be incorporated into the Criminal Code and that this kind of procedure will be abolished. But in political terms here, because we are MPs elected by the Greek people and we are carrying out a mandate and we are moving on with this mandate, we must see that we need restraint from all sides, from politicians and journalists. Sometimes, some fellow Members here in this Chamber, in the oath of the presumption of guilt of the Government and in the oath of the eternal guilt of the Left, are appalling things, appalling. You're getting your hair up! And it is a way, a message, an education of the citizen who listens to us, the heavy things that are heard, 'the liar', 'the humiliation', 'the fucker'. That's it. We remember them from the cartoons of the 1960s, what Bost and Fokion Dimitriadis wrote. Now they've become part of the political speech here. It is the official systematic reason, which elected Members of Parliament, acting on a mandate from the Greek people. In this respect, our role of inter-education and the role of one, as far as possible, moral example, has failed. So I say, of course, that the crisis is not being persecuted, that the opinion is not being persecuted. In my opinion, the falsification of facts, the falsification of facts, because he is a dynamite, must be controlled or persecuted. On the other hand, however, all of us reporters have a public responsibility. And the political hereditary is accountable and withdrawn from the dissatisfied public opinion, from the discontented vote, from the citizen, and the journalist has his conscience and the ethics of his profession, which is even heavier and unfortunately has perpetuated in our time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, Mr. Xydakis. Parliamentary spokesman for the JRC and F Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Lambroulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u160	Mr President, I asked the floor on the basis of the amendment tabled by the Minister for the Interior a few minutes ago. I don't see him on the bench. Is he gone?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u161	He was here, Mr. Bright. He developed the subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u162	I'm so sorry! It is a condemnable and unacceptable practice, regardless of the issue that the Minister or the government claims to be trying to resolve. At the last moment, while the bill had actually been closed, since the Minister responsible has spoken, Minister Haritsis is coming to present an amendment with a specific item concerning firefighting. We have some objections, which is why I wanted him here. Of course we would like to vote on it, but now see what happens. The first part refers to the victims of the recent tragedy that people lived in Matti and the wider region. Who's covered? The dwellings that--how does it say so? - they're not residential. I mean, it's the red buildings. What about the rest of them? We're saying we're all going to cover up. Secondly, funding. Where does the government load them? He's loading them in the municipalities, in the code of fees, etc. So what's going on? The citizens themselves are being called upon to pay for what they are establishing today by the Government for the discharge of the affected, through internal distribution - if you like - of the funds in the municipalities. And the state, the government, does not put a penny on this subject that is being dealt with in this particular amendment. We also say that it is an obligation, and it is imperative that the State helps even this section - we do not say about the rest, which is needed, but we say about what is stated in the amendment - and the necessary funds to be covered by the state budget. Where's Mr. Harris to answer us why he doesn't? It cannot come last minute, throw an amendment, tell us what this amendment is dealing with or what the government wants to do and get up and go, Mr President. Excuse me! It's a tested tactic, Mr. Catrugale. And don't stick to numbers. Whether it is done noon or afternoon or night, this does not change the substance. And the essence is what we say and suggest. Otherwise, as far as this amendment is concerned, Mr President, we will go to the'representations'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mr. Lambroulis. Parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Incorporation, Mr Theocharopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u164	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will start with two issues that have been raised in the debate. First of all, it is about mediation. The institution of mediation as amended by Law 4512/2018 with provisions lost within a memorandum law was questioned and at risk. Why? Because there was no need to consult lawyers, judges and all unions. We have told you that the structure and cost of this process create reasonable doubts about the constitutionality of the arrangement. You told us that we were overreacting. It came and was finally decided that this particular arrangement was unconstitutional. And now with a dribble you throw the ball - if you want me to tell you - to the next government, why are you talking about the autumn of 2019. This is a tactic, which is old-fashioned and small-party citizens understand very well that it is precisely this tactic that has political purposes, precisely this tactic in this amendment that you have brought today is that you do not take over the political cost of this regulation as well. Because otherwise we could have settled on the basis of the anti-constitutionality decision in the next few years. You don't do that. What you are doing is throwing it away for “Autumn 2019” with some generalists - I heard the Minister of Justice - and vague promises that “if we can come to a process before autumn we will bring it before autumn 2019”. Our position is that the institution of mediation is important and necessary and must not be hurt in the eyes of the citizens. What is happening today is irreparably affected. For us, the Change Movement, mediation as a modern and effective way of resolving disputes lies at the heart of a reform plan for justice. However, we cannot overlook the fact that we have another monument of the legislative hand of this government, which is what you are doing today in this regulation. The argument on this and the next point is that 'to what the opposition did ten years ago and eight years ago and to what we have been doing this four years'. At some point you'll leave the government. You've been closed for four years. It is even possible today to say about all the issues that have been raised 'but do not blame us for the fact that the same may have happened before'. It may not have happened exactly the same, but I do not go into this debate because it is wrong for us all. Is it possible for all of these issues to be 'we are doing so, we are doing it wrong, but this has been the case in previous years'? But it's not possible. I say this because I come to the next issue which is even more serious, let me say that it is a question of democracy, it is a question of the rule of law, and I will explain why. I am talking about the issue in relation to the self-destruct to journalists in cases of slandering through the press. You answered, Minister, I heard you. We did not hear the Minister for Justice today. I've asked the Minister of Justice a question. But before that I had tabled a question to the former Minister of Justice, Mr. Contonis. Today we have heard you and the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman respond in a certain way. What is the problem with the selfish process? That while the Constitution is predicted not to operate the self-defense, but of course to make the procedures quickly and to predict all this, but not to have this process of intimidation, this has not been legally foreseen. What is the problem, however, especially this four-year period? That there is widespread use of the self-defense procedure and the reason that there is even a government minister. Of course, everyone can defend what they say, but the constitutionally guaranteed right to freedom of the press must be defended. I asked a question in 2017 and asked for specific commitments to abolish the self-sacrifice procedure to the previous Minister, Mr Kontonis. The answer he gave me is different from what you are saying today, Mr Katrugale, and the Minister for Justice and the Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA. I specifically read from my answer to my question in 2017: ‘The joint legislator has assessed the peculiarities of the self-confidential procedure and has chosen to apply it to the case and the slandering defamation through the press, as it considers that all the evidence reasons that lead him to recognise the necessity of this specific procedure are met. The practical peculiarities of the operation in question justifying such self-regulation are obvious’. And it continues in 2017, unless your Government has no coherence in this matter: "In times with a lot of fantasy in the news," and other things that it says, "the public need is recognised through the specific regulation of balanced protection of the function of these persons and the prevention of recycling of the news for reasons of democratic principle". In the Minutes, I answer the answer of the former Minister of Justice, Mr. Condonne, to my question. [[At this point the Member, Mr Athanasios Theocharopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] After the latest events I have re-tabled the question and with the new information to the current Minister for Justice and I am waiting for his reply. But here too, we cannot hear the press's arguments 'and why has it been kept in previous years'? It was badly kept in previous years, but it had not been widely used in recent years. We see a problem ahead of us. Shouldn't we solve this? Of course, Mr Loverdos has also tabled an amendment to this issue today, whether you would like to solve it today. Here it was, an arrangement to do it. This hypocrisy, that the SYRIZA Ministers and the parliamentary representative are referring to the fact that 'we want to solve it', but we are tabling an amendment, we have been asking a question for two years, we have not solved the issue and at the same time we want to resolve it, it is the maximum hypocrisy. Does it stop us from solving this particular matter? Any troika? Any partner? Any International Monetary Fund? Today was a simple arrangement. Why don't we solve it? And no regulation will bring about until the end of the four-year period, especially in the pre-election period, which, unfortunately, polarization has been going up this time too much in our country. There are some in the government who think that this can work as intimidation, as the rapporteur of the Democratic Alliance said in his speech, and that is why, unfortunately, your government wants to keep this regulation in mind. As far as the amendments are concerned, another issue concerns your many amendments. What's that argument for you? Do you want us to measure the amendments brought by the previous governments, to measure the amendments in each term? Is this a conversation to improve things in our country? I will tell you that in sanctions and incorporations, because we have seen the elements of a directive that have never happened, and in sanctions that come. But I will not go into that again. I will only say this: it is not possible to make legislative work like this. For example, we have seen an amendment - not to mention the others, our rapporteur has mentioned - which has just been tabled, which seems to be at some level reasonable for red houses in Matti, which have been declared red to get some money. The last minute comes when the whole process has been discussed. And, of course, we say - we asked the questions - that in relation to red houses it makes sense. Why should it be discussed in this way? Now let's ask a question. Why shouldn't it apply to what's called yellow? Of course it will. What exactly about funding? How can this whole thing be discussed at the moment in something that is necessary, which we too consider to be and which we have asked for? In other words, the way you legislate has direct consequences for us not to improve certain things, but also to have a debate. Of course, this is government practice. It concerns all the ministers, all the bills and it does not stop despite the assurances. We have also heard Mr Haritsis in a way that he really understands the error in tabling an amendment at this time, but it cannot, recurringly, be done by all the ministers for three and a half years and say that we are wrong we have to stop. It can't be done! Decrease! We don't have the hope that he'll completely stop. In closing my speech I shall refer to the bill, I mean the central part of the bill, because with the amendments you have tabled in the bill, your Government - all of us and the Minister himself - are mainly discussing the amendments. The subject of today's bill is the incorporation of the directive establishing the necessary cooperation and coordination measures in order to facilitate the provision of consular protection, it concerns a whole issue, both in terms of the integration of policy areas and in terms of European integration. For us what unites Europe, it moves in a positive direction. This directive is also in the direction of strengthening solidarity, and it promotes the concept of European citizenship. Obviously, the incorporation of this directive is positive, since it is in line with the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. Today, in Europe, the concept of common political governance is in decline. But the vision of a united Europe was not just an economic union. With the crisis, not only Greece or the euro but also the basic principles of European unification, such as solidarity between countries, social cohesion, democracy itself, have risked. The truth is that the incomplete architecture of EMU in combination, perhaps with the initial underestimation of the crisis, has created conditions for questioning the legitimacy and political identity of Europe, and so today the whole of Europe lies in the masculine of nationalism and populism. The mistakes, failures, omissions have put the ground on Eurosceptics and anti-European forces that want to lead Europe to the worst times of its history. Cultivating fear and insecurity from refugee flows, the extreme right-wing forces are gaining ground to promote fortification behind national borders and to form a Europe fortress. And the government, of course, in relation to this issue, is indebted to a failure in relation to European unification. The refugee, Moria, which we visited in the Change Movement in the last few days, is the great hellhole and shame of Europe itself. And while our country supports the need for a uniform European approach to the problem, in practice what has been agreed on the last Council? He agreed on bilateral agreements that exacerbate the problem. Europe must, therefore, change towards an economic and political union that is strong in order to meet the new era, and such arrangements and more arrangements must come to all levels, both for the common security policy and for the common policy on refugees, so that the European Union can actually become a single economic and political union. This is the bet and the challenge that favours our country and is in favour of the interests of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u165	Thank you to Mr Theocharopoulos, Parliamentary Representative of Democratic Independence. If there are no others to speak, according to the list, to proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u166	Mr President, the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u167	Mr. Tsoulus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u168	In my speech I had not mentioned any amendments and we agreed with Mr Kaklamani to speak for a moment afterwards. Incorporate it into my point of view about the articles in the vote?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u169	No, no, now, if you like, to go to the vote. We'll also give Mr. Carras after the speech for a minute. Here, Mr. Tasoula, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u170	The OAED amendment, which I did not mention, has been explained by the Government, which highlights the existence of the problem. Unfortunately, they do not highlight the cause of the problem, which we are basically opposed to. And it is a situation, I repeat, which has to do with the other amendments, which correct failures or uncertainties of the administration, or earlier legislation with new legislation, in an endless way. So because there has been a real problem, but it has not been the cause of the problem, you will allow me not to say "represent". Now, obviously the amendment that Mr Haritsis tabled for red demolished houses is obviously the exception to the rule that there should be no one. Obviously, then, we are voting for this. The Minister's view as a constitutionalist on the issue of amendments, even when comparing the quantity of amendments is of interest, but you know it would be much more provocative to want to compare, not with some whom you have captured, but to compare what you have said. That would be the charming one. Because if we are to measure amendments, it can come out anyway, but you have also invented a kind of new encryption that the ministers with the mantle of a parliamentary initiative, which is even more advanced bypassing the Constitution, through the so-called parliamentary amendment, which is clearly dictated - and we all understand that from the ministers who are doing so - in such a way as to avoid, not only the General Accounting report, but also other checks that are good enough to exist. Now how this can be avoided, because it is actually done and it is not easy to say words and it does not make sense to measure the quantity, because there are many amendments. I think, Minister, that no revision can relieve us of this current administrative climate and you will also be subject to the climate of incredible responsibilities that exist and everyone wants to be covered. It's very few of them who want to solve a matter. Everyone's dealing with a subject, in the sense of being covered. And to be covered, the best way is by legislation. That is why you see that we have all this flooding of caseology and over-legislation because of disciplinary action. Of course, the complaint has been cultivated. And the complaint has been cultivated by the acceptance of the complaint in part of the electorate as an easy way to career. In other words, the political career of some is through a series of complaints. So here, we're in bad trouble. So do not think that you will solve this in the Review, it changes with a change of attitude, where effectiveness will be equal to action and the same radiation will have the same transparency. Today, transparency or so-called transparency have much more radiation, while efficiency does not count at all. We have to balance this somehow. That is what I wanted to say about adding to what I wanted to say. So do not accept, Minister, that you compare yourself to some whom you have so critically criticised in the past, just dare compare with what you have been saying about the amendments and you will see that you have misled not the expectations of the world, which is another matter and which has obviously happened, but you have misguided yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, Mr. Tasoula.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u172	But you know, he'll choose between you and us and not between us and us.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u173	Please don't have a dialogue now. Mr. Carras has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u174	In short, Mr President, I would like to say to the Minister that, if there is any intention of the amendments being repeated, let us not leave it to constitutional revision, let us interfere with the Rules of Procedure of this House and I think we will find a solution. On the subject of Mr Haritsis' amendment, although it is at the last moment, although we disagree, because it is limited in scope and does not concern all the affected, we will vote 'yes' and I note that on the Minutes, but immediately afterwards we shall proceed to parliamentary scrutiny and to tabling an amendment, to extend to yellow houses, which are also blatant and cannot be used. There are also the well-known problems of dust and carcinogenic substances that have accumulated and we will also ask for protection.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u175	Very good.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u176	Thirdly, Mr President, in relation to Mr Loverdo's amendment, which I have developed for his absence, I must say that we do not charge hypocrisy when there is a matter of topicality, Minister. It was timely and, therefore, I cannot accept what you said before.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u177	Thank you very much. The debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is hereby terminated: ‘Integration into Greek legislation of Council Directive 2015/637/EU of 20 April 2015 (OJ L 106/24.4.2015) and other provisions’. Questioned by the Department: Can the bill be accepted in principle?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u178	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u179	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u180	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u181	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u182	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u183	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u184	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u185	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u186	Therefore, the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs ‘Integration into the Greek legislation of Council Directive 2015/637/EU of 20 April 2015 (OJ L 106/24.4.2015) and other provisions’ was accepted in principle by a majority. We are entering the motion for a resolution. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 1 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u187	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u188	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u189	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u190	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u191	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u192	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u193	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u194	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u195	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u196	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u197	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u198	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u199	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u200	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u201	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u202	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u203	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u204	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u205	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u206	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u207	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u208	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u209	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u210	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u211	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u212	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u213	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u214	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u215	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u216	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u217	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u218	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u219	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u220	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u221	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u222	Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 5 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u223	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u224	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u225	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u226	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u227	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u228	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u229	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u230	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u231	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u232	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u233	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u234	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u235	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u236	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u237	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u238	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u239	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u240	Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 7 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u241	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u242	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u243	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u244	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u245	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u246	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u247	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u248	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u249	Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 8 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u250	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u251	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u252	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u253	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u254	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u255	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u256	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u257	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u258	Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u259	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u260	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u261	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u262	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u263	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u264	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u265	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u266	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u267	Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 10 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u268	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u269	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u270	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u271	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u272	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u273	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u274	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u275	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u276	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u277	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u278	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u279	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u280	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u281	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u282	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u283	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u284	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u285	Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 12 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u286	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u287	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u288	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u289	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u290	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u291	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u292	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u293	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u294	Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 13 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u295	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u296	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u297	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u298	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u299	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u300	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u301	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u302	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u303	Article 13 has therefore been accepted as majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 14 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u304	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u305	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u306	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u307	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u308	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u309	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u310	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u311	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u312	Article 14 has therefore been accepted as majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 15 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u313	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u314	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u315	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u316	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u317	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u318	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u319	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u320	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u321	Article 15 was therefore accepted as being majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 16 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u322	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u323	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u324	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u325	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u326	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u327	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u328	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u329	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u330	Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. Questions to the Department: Can the amendment be accepted under a general number of 1746 and a special number of 28?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u331	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u332	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u333	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u334	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u335	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u336	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u337	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u338	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u339	Therefore, the amendment of a general number 1746 and a special 28 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Questions to the Department: Can the amendment be accepted under a general number 1751 and a special number 31 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u340	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u341	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u342	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u343	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u344	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u345	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u346	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u347	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u348	Therefore, Amendment No 1751, and a special 31, was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Questions to the Department: Can the amendment be accepted under a general number of 1752 and a special number 32 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u349	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u350	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u351	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u352	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u353	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u354	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u355	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u356	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u357	Therefore, the amendment of a general number 1752 and a special 32 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Questions to the Department: Can the amendment be accepted under a general number 1758 and a special number 33 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u358	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u359	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u360	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u361	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u362	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u363	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u364	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u365	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u366	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1758 and a special 33 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Questioned by the Department: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u367	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u368	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u369	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u370	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u371	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u372	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u373	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u374	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u375	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Integration into the Greek legislation of Council Directive 2015/637/EU of 20 April 2015 (OJ L 106/24.4.2015) and other provisions’ has been accepted in principle and in Articles. We move on to vote on the bill and on the whole. Questioned by the Department: Can the bill be accepted in the whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u376	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u377	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u378	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u379	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u380	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u381	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u382	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u383	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u384	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Integration into the Greek legislation of Council Directive 2015/637/EU of 20 April 2015 (OJ L 106/24.4.2015) and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u385	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the Chamber to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u386	The Department therefore granted the requested authorisation. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point we will have a slight interruption before we enter the debate of the Ministry of Health bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u387	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We shall now proceed to the second draft legislation, that of the supplementary agenda. Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Consolidation of a donation contract between the Joint Beneficiary Foundation "ALEXANDROS S.A.", the Onassis Heart Surgery Centre (O.K.)" and the Greek State and other provisions.’ The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 25 September 2018 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting in principle, articles, amendments and all. In the same spirit, I suggest that special speakers should include in their position and position on the amendments. After all, all three amendments are made by the Ministry of Health. Whoever you want, you do it, so you'll have the extra time if needed. In any case, we see that in the course of this. Let us start with the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Ioannis Dedes, who has fifteen minutes. If he wants, he can use them or speak less. Here you go, Mr. Deed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u388	Good morning. Thank you, Mr President, for your time. I think it's enough to develop my views on the bill. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are not really talking about just a donation, which is submitted and offered by an institution, such as the 'Oonesio' Foundation. It is a clear political position of these institutions, as was the case last week when we voted for the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, to the Greek State, to the Greek citizen. Why? Because it seems that these socially beneficial institutions see in a fundamentally broad spirit the creation of a climate of change of policy in the country by the present government and, in particular, by this Ministry, in the sense that there is a design, there is a real expansion of policy towards the heavy problems of Greek citizens and even within the decades of the Memorandum of Understanding, where the entire state has shrinked and incomes have decreased considerably, as well as Greek citizens' access to public institutions as well as to Greek patients. That is why the wider policy with clear measures by the Ministry and the Government in general to stimulate the welfare state has had tangible results, mainly with this free access of at least two and a half million citizens - who have not had access to AMKA, and only can they have direct access for medicines and for primary and secondary health as well as for other issues. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, it is the vote and the introduction of primary health care, which is an important step, which has essentially supplemented and supplemented the RS in 1983, which at this point had a void, and now it is now time that primary health care should be introduced, namely the promotion and prevention of health, but also the card and register of patients, which is a very important element, in the sense that the health ministry itself also facilitates the financial use of medicines, the volume of medicines and all the services it has. The patient records the map of the morbidity of the Greek territory. I would also like to include in my speech and the vote last week in the ratification of the donation. It is called a donation, but I think that the donation of the Foundation "Stavros Niarchos", as well as the current donation of the Foundation "Alexandros S. Onassis", is a serious intervention in the sense of the performance of a great project in Greek society, because with all that will be done, for example, with the contract and donation of the Foundation "Stavros Niarchos", we will have a great construction and establishment for Northern Greece of a large paediatric hospital for all northern Greece, with the centre of Thessaloniki, the building of the zero and establishment of a hospital in Komotini, the renewal of a wing at the hospital "Evangelism" for the establishment there of the School of Nursing from the Higher Education Institute of the National and Kapodistrian University, the purchase of specialized high-technology medical equipment - space technology, I would say - and much more that we have signed and voted in the previous donation contract with the Niarchos Foundation "Stavros Niarchos". Today, therefore, in particular with the new bill that comes in for a vote on the ratification of the donation contract between Alexandros Onassis Foundation and the Onassis Cardiff Center and the Greek State, the amount of the donation amounts to 70m euros without VAT. The construction of a new wing of the "Onasios Cardioperative Center", the complete equipment of the new wing, the establishment and equipment of the National Metabolic Center, the establishment and operation of a modern and fully renewed paediatric clinic, of course specializing in the cardiology of children under the title "Children's Association". The selective rebuilding of individual rooms and spaces of the ‘Onaseios’ which will be affected by the construction of the new wing, the renewal of the equipment of the existing ‘Onaseio’ building, the creation of a helical for the speedier transportation of patients and grafts, the creation of additional underground parking spaces and the reform of the environment, and the preparation of the studies and documents necessary for the implementation of the above mentioned documents. Dear ladies and gentlemen, this contract serves the public interest, since not only will the services already provided by the "Cardiocratic Center" be upgraded, but they consolidate the "Cardiocratic Center Association" as a centre of excellence and reference at European level. Children and even uninsured fellow citizens will have access to high-level health services, while considerable costs currently incurred by the Greek State in carrying out transplants abroad will be saved. It is mainly this and a key point, as with the creation of the transplant centre these medical operations will take place within the country, while attracting valuable medical and research staff. It's also a key point, because the Ministry will come up with high-grade scientists and transplant surgeons to increase and stimulate these missing objects from the country. Mr President, I do not want to go into all the articles, because time is minimal, but I will give a ton. For example, Article 2 emphasises that the Foundation will bear the cost of maintaining donated and existing equipment for a period of five years from the delivery of the project. For example, Article 4 states that this Convention will be authorised for the construction and construction work required in order to carry out the work within a short period of time without going into the ministries' calls for permits, etc. Article 6 states that specific tax exemptions and exemptions are provided for in the Convention in view of the public interest. Article 9 lays down the applicable Greek law. This is important. Article 13 defines the conditions for additional donations that may exist from the "Onasis" Foundation to the "Onasio Cardios Heart Surgery Centre" and the Greek State. Chapter B provides for the institutional reorganisation of the "Cardiocratic Center" which aims, among other things, at upgrading Onassis to cardio-surgery, heart surgery and transplantation centre at European level. It's a key element that I'm going to mention now. It is the provision of public resources to the "Cardiocratic Center" at 20% of the annual budget of the "Onasis" in order to cover insurers in high-level health activities. According to the report of the General Accounting Office of the State, this cost at current prices is estimated at EUR 5.4 million. Here we are in agreement with this regulation, as it is governed by the same logic that uninsured citizens in general, as I said before, have access to the National Health System. The bill provides: The establishment and operation of the Onassisian Metabolic and Onassisian Children's Onassis, which will fall under the "One", the regulation of matters relating to the Board of Directors, the regulation of issues relating to the evaluation of staff and the possibility of the "National Cardiff Surgery Centre" to conclude work contracts with university doctors, teachers and research centres, thus increased care for the health of Greek citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, with this convention, our country will acquire a modern transplant center and a modern paediatric clinic specialising in paedophilia and paediatric cardiomy surgery. Therefore, given the benefit that will arise for patients, minors and adults by upgrading health services after the completion of the project, but also given the budgetary benefits resulting from the reduction in the costs of transplantation abroad, we call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote in favour of this draft law. Mr President, I do not want to take a special position on the amendments tabled today. It is a good thing that I leave it to the instigated ministers. Thank you very much for taking the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u389	We thank the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Dede, for saving time. The rapporteur for the New Democracy, Mr Iason Fotidas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u390	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the cold. I think we figured it out, we all felt it in our skin this morning. Obviously, on the occasion of this fact that the colds began, it was asked on television this morning by a well-known journalist, the former Minister of Tropho Alexiadis, what the government intends to do with this notorious heating allowance. Because it is this heating allowance that New Democracy would kill the world with its cheeks, it would burn the world that we are unconscious, that you had to hang us in the Constitution because we have reduced. It is this allowance that you came to reduce it twice, from 50% each, that is, overall, to reduce it by 75%. Given that oil has also increased, Mr Alexiadis has been asked what will happen with this case of heating allowance. And what did he say? He answered that now is no problem. We have, because of the overcrowding, that financial space that is needed to increase the heating allowance. In other words, if we are to recapitalise, if we combine it with what we heard yesterday by the Minister of Finance, this surplus, which is above - below - around EUR 3 billion, will enable us not to reduce pensions, those that you voted on and brought down the reductions, not to reduce duty-free, to become all the countermeasures, to increase the heating allowance. That's not a surplus. This is the miracle of the multiplication of the breads and fish, Minister. In fact, all the problems of the country will suddenly be solved by overcrowding. I don't think there's anyone who really pays attention to what you're saying. What I think is unspeakable is that we have been in the middle of a pre-election period. Mr. Tsipras - and his company - is doing everything he knows to do better than anything, to eat things that he knows he won't. The fact is, we'll soon have elections. Now we're going a little bit to the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, we have also stressed in committee yesterday - and we repeat this in plenary today - that it is extremely important that the bill discussed about the donation of the mutually beneficial Onassis Foundation, through the "Cardiocratic Surgery Association" to the Greek State, is extremely important. First of all, we are grateful to the Onassis Foundation for this donation and we are voting in favour of it, because with it - which will amount to EUR 70 million - it demonstrates its great and time-consuming contribution to our country. His valuable and multi-faceted assistance to education, culture and health in our country is now moving on to the creation of a major public-private project. It is also important that the voluntary donation, because it relates to cardiology, the extension of the cardio-pediatric clinic and especially to transplants through the creation of a relevant centre of excellence, as well as a helico-driver, which will help to transport the grafts, which, as we all know, has a given weakness. In addition, through the upgrading of the paediatric clinic, all citizens, including children and uninsured citizens, will benefit. And by the way, let this story stop sometime, Minister, that you supposedly started the care of the unsecured. I understand that you want to project some tangible work now that the elections are approaching and the New Democracy will be called upon to implement, as you said in committee, by mistake, that we will see the New Democracy, now the time will come, to do its programme, lapsus would be...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u391	Maybe you didn't say it like that. You know, however, that in the New Democracy, you have only overthrown the Samara government, extended it to refugees and immigrants. In the primary health bill I provoked the Deputy Minister to provide a certificate of even a certificate showing that he was uninsured...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u392	You're such a liar? The Prime Minister himself testified from Venizelos...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u393	Let me finish. I didn't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u394	Minister, you don't have the floor. Go on, Mr. Lightla.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u395	So I have given you even a certificate. You didn't bring anything. Or rather, for the truth, you brought two, they're down in the Minutes, but I have them and they're scanned on my cell phone, one of them concerned with immigrant and not Greek insurer, with AMKA that is, and the other one was about Greek, but his care was in 2013. Just the invoice was issued after 2014, i.e. after the New Democracy covered. So let go of that story. I'm going back to the donation contract. I said it is very important for one reason above, to create a modern transplant centre with innovative research methods, a centre of excellence, was very well heard, as it will be called, to help reduce the search for grafts abroad, but also to research into the implementation of innovative practices that will continuously improve the health of citizens, in particular those with cardiological problems. Because, ladies and gentlemen, this is excellence in health, the search for best practices through research using new innovative methods in the treatment of diseases. Of course, we are pleased that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government finally recognises the need for centres of excellence in the field of health, rather than slandering, as it has done to date, in the field of education. And whatever happens in this direction, whether islands of excellence or centres of reference in the public sector, we welcome it. Because we have no ideas, because we know that the public interest can be as well served by both the public and private sectors. A second comment I have to make is on the employment status of workers in the "Government". You are bringing this contract to a vote for free without having come to any contact, consultation, without having heard, brother, worker union, workers' union, that is to say, 'October', actually imposing your opinion on it. And you have the same consequences as they are making a 24-hour strike today. And basically, your hypocrisy is revealed. You are cutting yourself off, you are supposed to be on the bars for free collective negotiations, and here you come and do away with this right, because these are the products of free collective bargaining. You are being put in place for workers' wages, but this cannot be done in fragmentation and, where appropriate, only to cover your own health care. Work should be discussed uniformly, in a separate bill, to define a common framework between workers, with which exceptions are needed, otherwise we simply surprise workers and go to micro-policy. As far as the amendments are concerned, I would just like to say a few words: You are bringing a ministerial amendment to 1754/139 and you are doing something really unacceptable. You put four articles, of which three are irrelevant, dealing with dentists, everything else they have to do with them, and bring a fourth article to the specific amendment to cover the medical coverage of the people affected in Matti. This really is, not unacceptable, I would say that it is terrible, really disgusting. What are you trying to do? Are you trying to force us or vote for articles that we might object and disagree or otherwise if we don't vote for them, go out and tell us that we're crazy and that we don't want to cover people in the Eye? This amendment is so serious, so just and so urgent, the fourth article on people in Matti that you must bring it on its own. So important is that you should bring her in on your own to vote by three hundred MPs in the Greek Parliament. And we ask you to do so immediately, to break this amendment. Otherwise, what you're trying to do is get this article in together with settling devices - and you know very well what I mean - and indeed with retroactive power, such as for toothmakers, for example, in the first article. Explain to me why is retroactive power needed from 19-7-2017? So the chairman of the Temporary Management Committee had signed signatures without the legal procedure being carried out? Or as you also do with the absence of orthopaedic specialty in the second article. You have recently given the right to specialize in emergency medicine and those orthopaedics, but in their notice you have removed. Why? Also here retrospective power. Why? Is it because the notice has come out and you're coming back to legalize it? As far as the river amendment, tabled by my colleague and friend Gregory Psaryanos, is concerned, I will tell you that we are in agreement. But what you must see before you can accept it, if you finally accept it, is if you agree. In the government, do you agree with this amendment? I am curious to see what the attitude of the Independent Greeks will be, because I remind you that the pot on the cake for this amendment was a complaint lodged by the Minister of National Defence with a journalist who dared to say that "It is not possible, my child, with 1.6 billion to have Moria and we should investigate it." He dares to do it. So I'm waiting to hear what the Annells have to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u396	Thank you, Mr. Firela.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u397	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u398	You have the floor for a minute, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u399	I would not have taken the floor if Mr. Fotillas was not so provocative to some things he had mentioned in general. It seems to me that, as you have been destroyed by the record of two and a half years, you are asking for elections. From the first day Mitsotakis came out, two months later, he's been asking for elections. Two and a half years have passed and elections have not been held and will take place on time. That's the first. So, as you've been destroyed by the account, you really don't know what you're saying. Listen, Mr Fotella, first of all, the Prime Minister himself tabled the papers. Secondly, you can contact Mr. Pitsili, with which we deleted EUR 30 million debts to uninsured Greek citizens who had charged...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u400	Before April 2014.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u401	No, no! By the end of 2015 and 2016 they charged the hospitals and leave them aside.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u402	You didn't bring us a certificate in this House. You brought us two bugs.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u403	Do you hear what I'm telling you now? Well, 30m euros had gone to taxi and deleted and 150m euros had not gone to taxi, and these were not sent and will be deleted. Cut that little fairy tale because you've taken half of Greek society out of lockdown. In order for the other even to enter the newspaper, he was called "pay". We know this thing has cost you politically. It's the big difference we have with you neoliberals that we disconnected the insurance cover from the right to free care at the time of need. As much as you bring this back, all you do is humiliate yourself. Nothing else! So don't say it again!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u404	Good, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u405	I just want to say that the FEK isn't a fairy tale. The FEK has been in existence since April 2014 and gives the possibility of covering the uninsured.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u406	He says the same thing again.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u407	Let's stop here. We move on to the special speaker of the Democratic Partnership, Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras, for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u408	Thank you, Mr President. We note that a large donation of the Foundation "Narchor" came to the House last week and a significant and particularly interesting donation of the Onasis Foundation came today to upgrade the Cardiologue Centre to create Cardioological Clinics, research, equipment and provision of high-level services in the cardiology sector. Of course, no one can deny that these institutions offer a great deal of social work in our country, beyond the health issue, and in the cultural sectors and many other activities that they have. We'll count them, though. They obviously cover deficits in the Greek health sector. Why is that? We have retreated in recent years, due to the crisis, to the provision of services. And I am not talking about the medical or nursing staff, for which we must all recognise that he is giving his daily fight, even with reduced staffing numbers, and he offers the most he can, even beyond human beings. So the foundations are coming now and they meet these needs, and all we can say is that they do well, they have to do so, they have to have a part in the social life and that of Greece. For this reason, the Democratic Association has also voted in favour of the donation of the Niarchas Foundation and will vote in favour today also of the donation of the "Onasis" Foundation, regardless of any comments we make, if you like, to the texts of the conventions or the possibilities offered for their implementation. Because it is not just enough to sign a contract and ratify it with a law. We must achieve the full implementation of the project so that it becomes efficient. I have, of course, made a few comments in committee on a number of articles. However, I think that they do not prevent its implementation. I mentioned - and I was right - the issue of excellence. Yes, to health, to pursue excellence. To pursue, however, excellence in other areas, education, public administration and justice, if you like - because we will also say a few things in relation to amendments afterwards - and not forget that, and often doubt excellence that it does not give the advantage. Yes, let there be some differences in spirit. The world is not lost. Because I want to see as an example someone who's better than me, so that I can have the trigger to follow him. I do not want to have as an example the one who is equal or even less capable of me, because I will not follow him. So I think we are here, even in the way of a convention, and in a change of policy, if you like. The government admits excellence. I consider this to be an important step. Even in the medical field. It's enough for me as a first sample. So I'm going to expect what's going to happen. Now, of course, issues have been raised on the contract that there will also be the issue of transplants. We consider it particularly important that the issue of transplants, as I have said - and it has been accepted - should not be called into question that Greece in this area is backwards, at least it has not improved. The donor index is small, the index of transplantation interventions is small, and I think that the donation of the Onasis Foundation will improve it, even partially. So here I want to say that excellence will also work. Let the example of the Oceanian Transplant Center follow it, let us become a healthy competition, competition, as you want to say. So let it be done by other hospitals, by other institutions, to achieve the desired result. What I have expressed my concern, if you will, at the recent time in the health sector is - and I must repeat it at the Discontinuation Department, I do not know whether I have said so on several occasions - the concentration that is being made on so-called 'private health' in the provision of services by private health bodies. I would remind you, therefore, that METROPOLITAN HOSPITAL in Faliro, IOO GENERAL in the Mediterranean, the 'Health' in Maroussi is now under joint ownership of investment capital. The government accepts that the banks are doing well because they had bank debts. Yeah, they had debts and they'd have to pay. There is no doubt that some in there were responsible, at least, for mismanagement. But I expect to hear something I haven't heard. We are, of course, not in favour of the concentration of all health activities in the public sector. However, the degree of concentration of the largest private hospitals in the provision of a general hospital - those three I mentioned - will potentially create not only health difficulties, but also - I am sure of that - increase in invoices. The EOPY, which has contracts, will be called to pay disputes. Other private operators will be sweetened to increase their tariffs. As long as the government and each government are seeking claw back or rebate, we must have these at some point, because there will be risks. Of course, all this is possible in the debate today on the reason that we are talking about a particular text of the Convention. But I cannot stand the temptation not to say it when it comes to health, because it is something we are seeing. As also, we have seen a phenomenon in recent years much stronger. If we start from Ampelokipou square in Athens and we get to Kifisia square - the so-called 'trechomenos' - what are we going to see? We'll see ten or twenty new diagnostic inscriptions. And one wonders: These diagnostic centres obviously cover a certain need? Is there a demand for the services they offer? There's a demand, obviously. They don't open up to be destroyed. Entrepreneurs have them, speculation seek, even if the entrepreneurs are doctors. I don't know if it's or not. These inscriptions we now see on the main roads and many other scattered in the neighborhoods of Athens, do they meet the needs of providing services, diagnostic examinations? Obviously yes, because we see tails on the road they expect to be examined. So the question arises automatically: What does the public health sector provide or can it provide? I didn't hear that. All I hear is there's a success in claw back and rebate. And I'm not one of those people I'm going to say the invoices were elected. There may have been invoices, which were high. Even the drugs could withstand the price reduction. But don't get us back to the previous level where the private sector provides everything. We are not against the private sector. But we want it to coexist with the public. We want the public health sector to be able to be one step ahead. Because it will also be able to lead individuals, who provide health services at a high level, with reasonable invoices and with savings of state resources. Because the truth is one: eventually in Greece everything comes to paying the state. The Minister is being heard - I have no reason to question it - that the uninsured can also resort to hospitals. They're doing good, and that's what they have to do. I won't say they won't. They should go. Health is a public good. We can't rule out anyone. Does this policy, however, increase tariffs and lead to new fragmentation and expenditure? I don't want to wish that. I live there. I now move on to two, three other points. I said in the morning in my previous speech to the Department that coming out of my house I expected to see the storm of Xenophon and I saw the storm of amendments both in the previous and in this bill. Of course, this is less than the previous Foreign Ministry bill. I have to say that, that is less. In any case, however, they have at least one relative minister. They do not have the inconsistency of the morning amendments, which came from all the ministries. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] I would like to comment on one of the ministerial amendments, because it is the one which deals with the provision of medicinal products for eyewashed people, which is, first of all, correct. I'm saying something else, though. Should they be in it, or could it be in another amendment? Because here we are concerned about its vote on the first articles, which deal with the exercise of a profession, etc. So - do I propose - that she should leave there and go to another, that she should have a connection with at least those who can vote so that she does not have the doubt if she is voting right or not? And I can't understand why this happened. Now I have to say something else. In the previous debate on the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, the fellow doctors of the Democratic Incorporation tabled an amendment - I also signed it - to transfer it from the EKA, in the event of a lack of bed in a public hospital, to an intensive treatment unit in a private hospital contracted by the EEAY with the EKA. Minister Paulakis told me that he has been legislated. I looked into it, but I didn't find it. I was expecting some text to reach my hands, even for class. At least I in my office couldn't trace it. I have not even had an information to date to see the number of the FEK where it has been published. And then, when my doctors were set up, we resubscribe it to see at least how it has been covered.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u409	We got it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u410	We don't have it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u411	I'll see you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u412	Tell us about it, tell us the FEK. Because from what I have been doing, Mr Xanthos, I have seen that this was a timely question from Mr Gregoraku. I didn't find a formal law covering it. I'm waiting for the answers. Of course, what I would like to say is that I see the amendment tabled by the members of the River for the abolition of the self-sacrifice. It's a topical matter. We discussed this in the morning, because Mr Loverdos had tabled a similar amendment. I also expressed my view that the self-defense procedure is an outdated 19th-century process. At some point, it must stop what, by submitting a message and the justification that the process is being initiated automatically, will be brought to the prosecutor, because the bonds are not a good picture, regardless of whether they are journalists or anything else. And what will the D.A. do? He leaves him free to finally order further interrogation if a crime has been committed or has not been committed. It does not lead him to a court to say that we have an energetic enforcement of the law in need of this procedure. In order to finish and not to abuse time in relation to health, I, too, took the view that at some point the Ministry of Justice should come to abolish the process of self-determination, at least, in minor offences, because it reflects the image of a country of anachronistic. So I refer to the following point and conclude, Mr President: on the bill the Democratic Reconciliation is voting 'yes'. I would ask that we vote 'yes' on the electoral procedure for medical clubs at 1753/138. With regard to Amendment No 1754/139 with a heavy heart, we are leading to 'yes' for the reasons I said earlier, that the regulation on the Eye should go autonomously or go to an amendment that is relevant to the current ministers. In the amendment on the establishment of organic positions, on 1756/141, the position is, firstly, negative because it is in progress, as far as we can hear, the process of organograms and positions. Let us finish this first to see the real needs and not through fragmentary arrangements to create positions. We are therefore voting 'at present'. Because it is possible to prejudge these positions at the moment and to cover up, when we have to see this whole thing. Madam President, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u413	Thank you. The Minister has the floor to support the amendments. Mr. Polakis, here you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u414	As colleagues are in favour of the amendments, I would like to defend them beforehand. The first is Amendment No 1754 and Amendment No 139. Colleagues have been mentioned before. The first article relates to certain arrangements for the Pan-Hellenic Association of Toothpastes, which we founded as a legal person under previous legislation, and we give the right to its provisional administration to sign contracts - it has not signed contracts, Mr Foyla - collective agreement, provision of services to the insured of the EEA with the health regions. That was the way we found to keep covering the EPO's insured for tooth-added work. The second article, yes, indeed, relates to a statement by the National Direct Aid Centre and it has to do with this: we were committed to recruiting doctors to the EAW in order to be able to operate the mobile units of the pups. Unfortunately, with the ministerial decisions that had been made in recent years about what the specialities of medical staff in the EKA, firstly, there were no pediatric neonatologists as prediction and, secondly, in the other specialities, in the other positions, which are anesthesiology, pathology, cardinology, surgery, special medicine, pneumonology, traumatology, in all these posts, they put as a prerequisite for having a service in the EKA. We also want to serve with people who are now coming out, who have not been able to have any pre-service to the EAW, either as an advisor or anything. That's why. Of course, there is also a change in the two ministerial decisions that provide for a specific establishment of medical posts in the EAW throughout the country to fill such gaps. Because two bulk decisions had been made which said that these are the specialities and we want them to have a pre-service to the EKAB and they did not provide for pediatric neonagnologists to cover the movable units we have been producing intensified neonalogists. The third article regulates an issue with recognition of the profession of the therapist because a major problem had arisen with some countries giving postgraduate qualifications. While they were given the postgraduate qualification and described what training they had, etc., which on the basis of our own data based on the presidential decree and the legislation that is clearly in existence and led them to practice the therapist's profession, but did not license them there, in the country of acquisition of the postgraduate title. There's a lot of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u415	In other words, where they did this, they can't work and they can work here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u416	What? But this is where people came to work. They went to training and didn't give it to them to bring it here. That was the problem: they don't give it to them to bring it here. That's the reality, Mr. Lightla. Unfortunately, that's the story. We don't just have paperwork, they have others. Now, listen, because you're doing the hair. It's just that he doesn't want to ferment, and ten days he sifts. About the last article. This article that entered, the paragraph that entered for the Eye, solves the problem that had been done because of the way the MDG had been formulated. And because we have some rigid bureaucratic mechanisms I want to explain it anyway. The medical coverage provision was in conjunction with the provision concerning the loss of various medical devices that these patients may have used. In other words, you may have had a patient with chronic respiratory insufficiency who had a "Bi pap" or "C pap" device who was destroyed and said that this is being replaced. As the provision had been included, it seemed that they could only take free drugs the first time, the ones destroyed. So we say they can take free drugs by 31-12-2018.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u417	But we didn't question the importance. We said it was so great that she could come by herself.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u418	All right, all right, Mr. Lightla, I see it, you're sensitive. But the question is this: that corrects this provision and does not need to be changed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u419	To come alone, that's what we said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u420	There was the PPP, corrects this difficulty of understanding some services on the subject of free pharmaceutical coverage. The second amendment is Amendment No 1756 and Amendment No 141. Here, practically the junk is the following. Some seven hundred doctors' posts are to be called from the Act of Ministerial Council of the two thousand that we had taken since last year. The other three hundred have been proclaimed. These seven hundred include four hundred and fifty-six places for primary care, which are specialty posts. These positions exist, but they're not named. In other words, in the same health center, while we have a position, say, general doctor, we have no position of cardiologist named. We don't have a radiologist position. We don't have an endocrine position. This thing is doing here: It names these hundred and eighty-six seats, and the same thing is done in the notice about the thousands of other auxiliary staff, who have been serving in hospitals in the country for over four years, who have been granted an extension of their service until 31-5-2019, with the commitment to the Court of Auditors that this notice will come out until October 1918. There they were hired with the two recruitments - since it was done before we took over government and one after, due to needs - in specialities that were not in hospital bodies so named. That is what we do with the three hundred and twenty-five positions of nurses and other staff, which are called on by the specialties that are needed, so that the two notices I have said before can be issued.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u421	Do you want the floor, Mr. Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u422	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u423	I would also like the floor, Madam President, on an amendment that I have not tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u424	Then, after all, all the rapporteurs have completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u425	I just want ten seconds, I don't want any more.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u426	Oh, okay. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u427	I too should like to present an amendment that has been tabled. It is the amendment of a general number 1753 and a special number 138, which concerns arrangements relating to the holding of the elections to medical and dental clubs. He's in consultation with the organs of representation and doctors and dentists. One enables the lists of voting rights to be drawn up, eight days before the elections, and not fifteen, as was wrongly entered into Law 4512/2018, which we made a codification of medical legislation, and secondly, that in the commissions for the election of representatives to the Pan-Hellenic Medical Association and members of the board of directors to be chaired instead of regional officials, lawyers from the relevant medical associations. This is a regulation that has been requested to increase the validity and credibility of the elections. As far as dental clubs are concerned, we are extending for a further three months the mandate of their current administration so that they can adapt themselves to the new framework and make their elections, on the basis of the new data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u428	Mr. Fotillas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u429	Only for ten seconds, Madam President, thank you. I just want to say that for an amendment which I had not been able to make, because it is now that 1759/143, which has to do with the positions of the VDU at the General Hospital of Argolida, after having had a conversation with Mr Andrianos who is from the region and knows exactly what the situation is, I think it is necessary. It is necessary, I would say, to meet the needs of the hospital and that is why we are voting in favour of it. I just want to say to the Minister that he did not have to convince us of the necessity of the fourth article on Matti. And I and Mr. Carras said how important it is and how necessary it is. What we said is that it's so great that she should come alone and not get into unrelated things. That's what we said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u430	Mr. Shahinides has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u431	Thank you, Madam President. At a time when we are experiencing a strong social and economic crisis are welcome donations from the private sector, because they come to solve chronic pathogenous problems that the Greek state is facing today. Unfortunately, it is not just private initiatives that are enough to cope with the health system, but it should also help the Greek state. However, one issue has arisen here. Although we are positive as regards today's Creation of a donation contract between Alexandros Onassis Foundation, the "Oonessios Cardiff Center" and the Greek State has been a matter of constitutionality. We have all received the resolution from the General Assembly of the Onasion Workers, which refers to and invoke Article 109 of the Constitution, and are told that no change in the terms of a covenant, code or donation may be allowed in respect of their provisions in favour of the public or public interest. Here there is an imperceptible state intervention regarding the management of labour relations. The collective agreements are abolished and staff enter the ERC system. We will expect an answer from the Minister if that is the case. We have a reservation on Article 3. If there is no unconstitutionalism, we have the good intention of voting in favour of this ratification. As I said before, the objects of today's contract in terms of donation are enough. The main object, however, is the creation of the "National Transplant Center" and the "Cardiocratic Transplant Children" for the benefit of the Greek people. The objects of the donation include improvements, reconstruction of the already existing ones at the "Cardio Cardio-surgery Center", reinforcement and renewal of equipment. One of the objects of the donation is the creation of a helicoway for the urgent transport of patients and grafts. The cost of the whole donation is EUR 70 million, not including the cost of purchasing and renewing equipment. We know very well that the Onassis Foundation has rich social and charitable work. He has contributed to the daily life of the Greeks and not only to the health by creating the "Oonessios Cardiff Center", but also in other areas, with various donations, with scholarships, while his contribution to culture is important. But here, there is one issue. Whatever donations have been made, as we have repeatedly mentioned in other cases too, the question is whether there will be state intervention, whether there will be a budget on the part of the state, so that all these structures will actually work the way they need to. I now come to the amendments. Amendment No 1753 and special 138 describes the regulation of issues concerning the electoral process of the country's medical clubs and an extension of three months after the end of the current term of office of the boards of directors, disciplinary boards and the Committees of the local dentistry associations of the country and the Greek Dentistry Federation, as well as the representatives of the local dentistry associations in the Hellenic Dentistry Federation. We shall vote 'the present' in this amendment. Amendment 1754 and our special 139 describes the definition of additional responsibilities for the Temporary Committee of the Pan-Hellenic Dental Artisan Association, a call for positions of curator I and II of the EHS sector for the EHSB and, until 31/12-2018, the possibility of granting medicinal products with zero participation to the affected under Article 15 of the MDG of 26 July 2018. As far as the issues of covering positions in the EBRD are concerned, Mr Minister, it is clear and correct to resolve these issues of lack of staff, but not with amendments. In a positive direction, there is also the question of the therapists. It is also true that the issue of the granting of medicinal products with zero participation in our firefights is absolutely in agreement. We will be voting in favour of this amendment. Amendment No 1756, and Amendment No 141, describes the establishment of organic positions, in addition to the existing ones, to improve the functioning of the structures and services provided by the National Health System. There is no solution to the issues of staff shortages with amendments, as I have said before. They require substantial planning and implementation. There are indeed shortcomings, indeed there must be proper staffing, but this must not be done in such a way. We will vote'residents' in this amendment. In Amendment No 1759 and in Amendment No 142, which concerns three additional organic positions due to exceptional population and geographical data, we will also vote in favour of it. I am going to refer to the amendment with a general number of 1749 and a specialist of 137, which refers to the abolition of the self-sacrifice in the offences of the press. We take the view, as Golden Dawn, that the self-defence should not be abolished, because another question is to protect the freedom of the press and another to be able to write and say what goes down without the consequences. Another issue has arisen here as well, Mr Minister, but also the Deputy. Today I have seen that many of your ministers from the beginning of the parliamentary term have not answered the questions we put to parliamentary scrutiny, which is, of course, contrary to both the Rules of Procedure of the House and the Constitution. The new Minister for Justice, Mr Kalogerou, has also been included in this team. You must realise at some point that, according to the last elections and the percentage received by the Golden Dawn, which accounts for more than five hundred thousand votes today, is nearly one million, if we say so in proportion to the electorate that is voting, we now represent 20%. You have absolutely no right to fail to respond to parliamentary scrutiny. As long as your team goes, this team grows. You are government of all Greeks and you must behave exactly like this. You are not the 'government of the mountain'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u432	Thank you for the time too. Now Mr. Lambroulis has the floor from the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u433	Thank you, Madam President. As we have placed ourselves in committee, as a party, we are not opposed to measures that improve the benefits, conditions of care, the valid diagnosis and treatment of our people. However, their health services and their development, their absolute and universal exploitation by the people cannot, in our opinion, depend on charity or volunteering and individual supply. It is a popular right and a state responsibility, stemming from the nature that these services must have, as well as from the fact that workers and other popular strata are the producers of wealth. Just these measures must be the sole responsibility of the State, fully financed by the State budget, the structures being managed by permanent full-time and full-time staff, and adequate and modern medical equipment must be ensured. Of course, all this should be part of the pan-Hellenic public health system, so that it is valid, secure and completely free to provide all preventive, diagnostic and therapeutic actions to those in need, without conditions and conditions. At the same time, any tenders must be used as an alternative and as a complement. We do not doubt, of course, the high scientific adequacy and the genuinely modern therapeutic methods applied in the "Ossetio" and much more those that concern the treatment of cardiological problems in the child population. Our fundamental disagreement concerns the fact that the existing heart surgery centre, as well as the new infrastructure to be built, are, in essence and practically, a modern business unit in a critical area of people's health needs. This disagreement, of course, was also raised during the 1992 meeting, when the law on the building of the "Onasios" was discussed and passed. This operating nature of the ‘Onanese’ refers to both the first donation and subsequent internal rules of operation as a binding term. So what? Operation based on the private economy principles. This also applies to the Onassis Foundation. In time, all governments - and today's leading one - consider the creation - of a business unit to be an offer to society as a whole, and now the expansion of a health business. There is also the element of the challenge here, because, from its unsatisfactory profits, the specific business group with its unsatisfactory state support, with a relatively small amount which it gave, has exploited a serious social, popular need with a multiple target: on the one hand, to promote the supposedly human face of capitalism and the exploiters and, on the other, to create a health unit that operates under market rules, which is a kind of example for adapting public health units to their respective characteristics. Of course, the donor and the Foundation have a consequence in terms of their class options and actions. But it is too much to be attempted by the government, operating as a washing machine, to present the agreement as a great philosophical conquest. The principle of operating the hospital on the basis of the principles of the private economy and, on the other hand, the public-private character of the “Onauseum” is things opposite. After all, a visit - and we told the committee - to the news website "Onasios" is really revealing: Medical visits in the morning cost 60 euros. The afternoon visit costs 80 euros to 100 euros. The participation of patients in microbiological tests is at 15%. TLFs are paid. The visit's being paid. The 45 euro electrocardiogram is also paid. Radiation costs 54 euros. Of course, here in Onasios, it is almost a norm for the so-called packet-paying upgrades of the patients in order to speed up the operation of the surgery. In this, there may also be experience from those present here, as with the alleged, in terms of the services provided or the way in which health services are acquired in the "Government". Similarly, the working relationships and the pay system are in line with the nature of the hospital. This provides for the criteria of productivity in contracts of employment, which are linked to the remuneration of staff and which are changed according to the strategy of the hospital. The remuneration shall also be determined in accordance with the principles of its operation, i.e. by its level of profitability. Staff, with the exception of doctors, who will be recruited in relation to work of private law of indefinite duration and who will work in the new units, is predetermined by the contract - what we are voting on today - that it will be the reward of the public, effectively abolishing any possibility of negotiation between workers and employers or administration, as you say. Also, the way the donation is distributed is astonished - we have said this in committee, and we are waiting for an answer - that is, why is it, since the public is going to belong to the real estate, that is, the movable parts, that is, the medical equipment, but other equipment necessary for the operation of the departments, will belong to the property of the "occupied", that is, the hospital business unit? Why was this change, for example? We asked that in committee too. Finally, we believe that this is not a donation that is being granted to the public, even with the provision of ensuring the reason why it was made. This is an investment in order to strengthen business action in a very serious health sector. After all, the people will finance this operation in various ways, such as covering 20% on the basis of the 'Onasium' budget, 20% on the state budget, that is, on the payroll of our people in recent years. We must, of course, remind ourselves of the increases in contributions to the health sector, to the insurance funds, and the direct payments for the market, as I have said before, of the services provided by the 'Government'. We support and claim - and we have told the committee - that the hospital will be fully operational by the state and that it will provide all services free of charge to all those who need them without conditions and conditions. That is why we will vote'representations', as we have said in committee. In the rest of the year we will be placed mainly for ministerial amendments. Before I begin one, I would also like to comment on this step, as was the case at the previous meeting on the Convention, which was discussed, the method, methodology and tactics followed by the Government on the issue of amendments. It is a last hour, as in the previous meeting the Minister for the Interior tabled an amendment, while the sitting was closed, and at the last minute a parliamentary amendment was tabled. However, it is also the direction of what the amendments themselves refer to or what they deal with. There are amendments, we have said so many times and the previous time at Parliament meetings, which contain four, five articles. No number of articles. In some articles a parliamentary group agrees, someone else disagrees. But you have to vote for a single vote. There's a blackmail here, we say it clearly. We call this one, we say two, we call it other parties, other parliamentary groups, in terms of this procedural part. It's unacceptable! And this issue has to do with a specific amendment, a colleague mentioned earlier, Amendment No 1754 and Amendment No 139, where we in the first article, for example, on the arrangements for the Pan-Hellenic Association of Todotechnics, are against. We are voting against it, and we think it is unacceptable. Of course you don't keep the pretexts. With the extensions you actually give, what do you say? We're making a state mechanism. And of course, in this direction, you take the temporary opportunity to sign the service contracts, of course, with a view to the needs, the insured, etc. Why didn't you do it before? The second article, in this amendment, would be a'residence' vote in respect of the centre. Pick up people! I've already heard the Deputy Minister say what he said. Involve people, if there are any places. You turn it from here, turn it from there, 'the positions were not predicted', 'we changed the positions', that is, you made distributions. Recruitment? Recruitment has to be done. So in this article we went to the 'partners'. I am also going to refer to the third article of the same amendment, which deals with the certification of a profession for the therapists. These children are - let me say - 'host' with regard to the recognition of postgraduate qualifications. One problem, which was raised by the policy itself, by the economy itself and by the issues of education and, in this case, by the children themselves. And, of course, here there are issues in this regard, as well as in the functioning therapists in these matters. We're going to the 'courts'. We come to the fourth article in this particular amendment, which we are voting for - and we say so to record - that is, of course, the possibility of zero participation in the granting of medicines to those affected by the fires in the Attica region. We would vote for that. But we are forced, with this amendment, by these four articles and on the basis of what we shall vote on, on the basis of our view of the articles, to say 'the present'. Separate them. What was wrong with you - I say, for example, about the last thing we are in favour of - bringing it separately into an amendment? You have so many MPs. Why don't you put them on a parliamentary amendment, which speeds up procedures and there are no malnutritions, and after all I think it will be mutually acceptable to all of this House? Why don't you do it? You're blackmailing us clearly. As regards Amendment 1753, what are you doing with medical clubs? You understood the mistake and you're going to fix it as far as the portion of the medical clubs are concerned. As far as the piece with dental clubs is concerned, you are extending the extension, oh extension, all fall in prolongation! We had voted against the extension. And of course we will say'residences' in this amendment. On the amendment No 1756 and on the staff of the Board, I heard the Deputy Minister beforehand, we will also hear the ministers then swell, we heard the committee as well, and the whole time we hear, we hear, we hear, we hear, we hear. So: What are you asking us to vote? It is more about election proclamation and a call for chairs than people. Recruitment, people, need huge, thousands of vacancies in hospitals, health centers, rural hospitals, etc. Why don't you hire? Recruitment to bring us in. What are you bringing us? For example, you have been bringing us a hundred and eighty - two positions of doctors, which have been provided for in the Act of Ministerial Council since 2016. Why didn't you hire them so long? You should bring us these hundreds of eighty-two with a specific framework, where they will go, with what distribution and where they will be. You're not telling me: These hundred and eighty-two where they're going? We're asking you. What hospitals, what health centers? We don't know. What will it be? A number that will walk around Greece in the next period and say, plus all the other "we're doing you a hundred and eighty-two doctors"? That is really, frankly, what we are saying, that is ingenious, that way that you are not only legislating, but that you are conducting politically. Sell seaweed for silk ribbons! Repeat for the third time, for the fourth time: hire them. Bring here an intake of these eighty two doctors. After all, you put a hundred and eighty-two down, you say the number. So you know the needs.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u434	Obviously.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u435	So you know the seats and you don't bring them. Get hired. These eighty-two - I repeat - were within the Act of Ministerial Council. Why don't you bring their recruitment?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u436	We've explained it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u437	Explain what? The same thing is...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u438	Mr. Paulakis said so. The arrangements shall be made to open the seats.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u439	You'll take the floor later, you'll say, you'll say again. Okay. We've heard them a thousand times. The same is true of this last-minute parliamentary amendment that you have brought about the Aragos, if I remember well. The same things happen everywhere. Everywhere you feed, create and "we will hire" and "we will publish" and "will, you will." Not to mention the remnant following the "will", as the song says. Madam President, as far as the amendment proposed by Potami is concerned, a corresponding amendment - with a difference - was tabled in the previous draft law on the contract which was previously discussed before the 'Onanese' amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u440	It's voted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u441	No, it's another amendment. It wasn't voted on. We believe that we should also put forward a statement here - as soon as possible - in our view. We say, as far as the amendment is concerned, but also the whole question arising from the amendment, that the compulsory characterisation of crimes committed by the press should be abolished by the complete abolition of the applicable provision of Article 242(3) of the Code of Criminal Procedure. We also expressed this position earlier in the debate in the Chamber. We are now tabling this amendment. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u442	Thank you. Mr Katsikis has the floor from the Independent Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u443	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, when I saw the time of the fifteen minutes for a simple and - I would say at the same time - a pleasant bill, a great success of the Ministry of Health for this very great and unprecedented donation from the Onassis Foundation and the Cardiff Centre, I thought that there would be a pleasant debate in this Chamber, following on from the debates that were before the one and only debates in the committee that we had and would end without controversy, without a sterile political opposition - I would say - tactics. But the opposition, Minister, when a bill comes in which it has to agree, agree, say 'yes', is sad if it does not say anything that moves in the field of refusal. So the fellow Member, Mr Fotillas, remembered that we were in autumn and even described it as winter because the heavy cold began. So, in order for the world to warm up, it must be oiled. Because oil has a subsidised policy and fortunately the country's finances are going very well, this subsidy policy can be supported through the state's over-performances, since the economy is packed, the psoropodestine is rented, the country is better, and Greece is growing. And because, of course, they will not be deprived of this policy of consolidation and of better balance in the scale of the economic crisis, that was still a cause for confrontation. And imagine when we arrived looking at this bill of the donor against the Ministry of Health and the Greek society with many benefits how intrused the law of the Minister of National Defence Mr. Kammenos could be. And unfortunately it was not only in this plenary, but also in the previous one. I thank publicly the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Katrugalo, whose answer he gave previously when he and I were also provoked. I honestly admired the answer he gave. I would like to add to that, Mr Fotella, that no one is exaggerated by the laws. They are not citizens separated into common mortals, second-class citizens and journalists to first-class citizens and men above God. Oh, no! We're all equal to the law. Since the law exists, whether we like it or we do not like it, you cannot in this way blame the legislator who established the services that were involved in the self-contained process, starting with the Greek Police. In other words, if people didn't understand it, I'll explain it to them, that's what you did: you accused the Greek police, which launched the self-defense of the process. You accused the public prosecutors of agreeing to this procedure. I do not know if tomorrow's day will rule on the justices of the Minister of National Defence of Panos Kammenos the Greek justice if you also blame Greek justice. But I do not want to say any more about this. I said and repeat that I did not expect that it would take so much time to develop our pleasant position on this great donation, but that, in the end, my political confrontation caused me to say that, yes, I need it. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Aristotle Onassis, this great Smyrnius, this great Greek, honoured the memory of his unique virus, in the end with a handwritten covenant, with the establishment of the "Complete Foundation of Alexander Onassis". Indeed, in December 1975 his express desire was made. The foundation is recommended and receives 45% of Onassis’s property, almost all of which would have been inherited by his father Alexander if he lived. The creation of two parallel institutions, a business with purely commercial purposes and a public benefit for purely public benefit purposes, guarantee the institution's safe operation in the inter-industry. Culture, education, health and the environment and social solidarity are the key priorities of the public-private institution. The whole of his activities is related to Greece and the Greek culture. The public nature of the projects promoted by the institution in the context of social solidarity is fully in line with the intention of the holder, excluding the parameter of individual charity. All the works of the institution shall be financed exclusively by the profits of the individual and institutionally independent business institution, with the same name as it operates in the areas that the donor has raised, shipping, immovable property and finance. The activities of the Onassis Foundation are diverse and focus on areas very important to humans. In the area of social solidarity and health, therefore, the Foundation donated to the Greek public in 1992 the model "Ossisio Cardios-Surgery Centre" fully equipped. It was the first certified hospital in Greece to develop and provide health services in the area of heart surgery and adult cardiology. In the context of the ongoing donation process, the institution, with its current donation, strengthens the purposes of its creation and existence, offering all the citizens of the country a high standard nursing institution, upgrading the public care services provided. So let us consider how redeemingly the establishment of the National Transplant Centre will work in the lives of our tens of people who are tested every day inviting them to manage a small life expectancy. The commitment by the "House of the Cardiff Center" to provide services to our uninsured or economically weak fellow citizens strengthens the nature of the Foundation's unselfish offer to our tested fellow citizens. The completeness of the study of the whole donation is also measured in the establishment of the helicoway, which aims to bring patients and grafts more rapidly and safer to the desired result of saving the lives of our fellow people. Ladies and gentlemen, when the children get sick, we all get sick. When life shows its hard face from so early to such young children, it is our duty to all of us, and especially those who are financially able to stand up to each of them. The establishment of a specialist clinic in child cardiology and especially in child cardiomytic surgery will enhance the hopes of children and their families to achieve a normality in their tested life. The coverage, not only of the cost of purchasing the entire equipment of the Clinic Children's Postmaster Centre and the new wing, but also of any maintenance costs for a five-year period, saves a significant financial benefit in a country like ours which is nearly ten years away. The planned job creation, both in medical and auxiliary staff, will benefit the national economy and prevent immigration with the aim of perhaps repatriating worthwhile scientists in this sector. The Independent Greeks are voting in favour of this sanction in the sense that they do not need supportive reasons, they do not need them, such an unhelpful and selfless offer, which works for the benefit of the public interest and the whole of our fellow people. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to express our vote in favour of all the ministerial amendments, without analyzing each other separately, with all due regard for what our ministers have said in the development of these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u444	Madam President, I would like the floor on personal grounds because I was accused...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u445	You weren't accused. Criticism expressed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u446	You gave the floor to Mr Paulis on personal grounds, without blaming and without insulting anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u447	You called me a liar.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u448	It just doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u449	I just need thirty seconds to get this straight.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u450	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u451	Thank you. We did not blame the Greek police, nor did the specific body that initiated the self-destructive procedure. We didn't do it because we couldn't. This body - and I am speaking to you at the moment - did not have the option, i.e. it was not able to initiate the self-defense procedure. And to understand it, and those who hear it, a lawsuit is filed either at the prosecutor's office or at the police station. If, therefore, a complaint, this particular complaint by Mr Kammenos, had been filed at the prosecutor's office at noon, the self-declared procedure would never have been initiated. However, since it was deliberately filed - because it cannot be accidental - at a curious time in the Police Department of Excavations, the police force was forced to carry out these moves and make the arrest. And that seems the next day that the prosecutor intervened throughout this procedure, who said that there is no reason for it and there is no reason for it to be self-evident. This would have happened from the first moment, if the lawsuit had not been filed in dark hours at a police station, but at noon in the Athenian prosecutor's office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u452	You said too much that it was his right to testify at the police station, so don't cause a new round. Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u453	His right and his choice, which is why I said it is worth listening to what ANLL will say about this amendment...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u454	Since it's his choice, let's do whatever he wants. Mr. Fisherman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u455	...because it was Mr. Kammenos's choice to initiate this process. He noticed. He tried it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u456	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u457	No, Mr. Katsiki, please. We are afflicted with matters that have been understood by everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u458	I mean, let's leave the impressions...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u459	What impressions now? Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u460	Impressions that the Greek police did the Minister's favour.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u461	He didn't say that. That's not what he said, Mr. Katsiki. He said Mr. Kammenos made a choice where he's going to file the complaint. His right was to make a choice.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u462	The D.A.'s not doing the Minister's favor! So if you were going, you're sure the D.A. was going to initiate the procedure? You have limbs and you know that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u463	Mr. Polakis, please. I'm here, too. We're not having a dialogue now!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u464	I do, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u465	Here, Mr. Psariano, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u466	You will make me start at the end of this pleasant debate. Of course, it is the right of anyone to use any fair or unfair law to initiate a procedure and the worse it makes it the harder it is even more smug. This is not a question of blaming the police or justice. No one blames neither the police nor the police department, nor the police officers, nor any of them. We blame the law, which needs to be changed. Badly, there is still a civil war law of 1951 where the 1927-law of 1927, please! - clearly said that the press offences are not considered to be self-sufficient. The law of 1927, in the democratic Constitution of 1927! The 2001 Constitutional Review abolished the prediction that press offences are self-evident, but were not replaced by a provision that it is not, as a result of someone who wants and is "eaten" to exploit a free, undemocratic law to do so. This has been done here and we as Potami and Mr Loverdos with Amendment No 1750, we with 1749 - are similar - we are asking for the amendment. I must say here that the provision of the Code of Criminal Procedure has not changed for seventy years, but has remained this 'formal' provision. It was based on this move and it is like saying that some people in Turkey, in Venezuela, in Russia or in China or in North Korea blame the police officers who implement such a law. In Turkey everyone runs and goes to jail directly, has no self-sacrifice, nothing. She could be eaten directly with years in the head. Does anyone blame the police? It blames the regime that has set up such a system. This remains the remains, remains and is defined by the 1952 Civil War Constitution and says the press offences are self-evident. This was done in 1952 for the well-known reasons. This must be abolished and applied to both the original and clearly democratic for the press's freedom - and for democracy too - that it does not fall under a self-evident procedure. So that's what we're asking for in the 242 article of the Code of Criminal Procedure...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u467	They're asking, Mr. Fisherman, and those who ruled and didn't do anything?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u468	A lot of people didn't do much. And those who rule and those who rule.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u469	Uh, yeah, but all the good things we have to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u470	I hope those who rule will then do better. In Article 242 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, in paragraph 3, to put the phrase in place, replacing that which exists: "The crimes against the price committed by the press, radio and television broadcasts, or via the Internet and any other modern media for the dissemination of information and news, shall not be tried as a self-righteous." We ask that the phrase in Article 242(3) be replaced. We think that it is fair, we think that everyone would agree on it and the government would agree on it, with all its aspects and its regions. As we started with the amendments, I too would like to say that in Amendment No 1754 and in Amendment No 141 you are compelled to vote 'at present', since you do not add the fourth article, for the reinforcement of firearms, for pharmaceuticals, etc. This provision, this article we are voting on. In the rest and in Amendment No 1753, and in Amendment No 1756, which is a set-up, extension and all that we have said, I do not want to repeat them, we shall vote 'at present'. If the fourth article does not stand out, in Amendment No 1754/141, we will have to vote 'at present'. If you stand out, we shall vote 'yes', which is clear and which will be voted on by everyone. No one disagrees. These amendments, to close the last chapter, and now go to the foundation, to conclude the donation contract between the Greek public and the Foundation of Alexander Onassis. Generally, of course, we are positive about the majority of the provisions and we were positive about the relevant donation - the intervention of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, since, rightly speaking, the national health system should have covered holes for decades. It is a fair settlement, it is a fair agreement and, of course, we will support it and vote on it. This is the donation contract consisting of many articles. Chapter I is ratification. Article 1 of Chapter II sets out the purpose, object and cost of donation. The cost is 70m euros, without VAT, and concerns the modernisation of the ‘Cardiocratic Center’. This does not, of course, include the cost of purchasing equipment for the Transit Centre, where it is excellent to offer the Onassis Foundation, as well as the Children's Foundation, which will also be financed by the Foundation, which will also bear maintenance costs and the existing equipment for a period of five years from the final delivery of the project. This is a very important intervention, a very great donation and benefit, in turn, and then great benefits and great benefactors. To remind you, as we said the day before yesterday with the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, that thankfully some - I will say it again - "great sharks" of capital, which "drink the blood of the people with the stove bath", which they supported from the super-profits and did things that the state could not or did not think or wanted to do. We are talking about spiritual institutions, about education, about higher education institutions, about institutions and donations about education, about culture, about everything. Article 3 of Chapter I shall define a framework under which the project will be carried out, including architectural plans, environmental commitments of health units, the list of equipment delivered for the new wing, the study of the application of architectural statics, etc. Obviously, this whole process is covered by the institution's money. The institution shall retain the right to replace materials, supplies, machinery and utensils referred to in the attached documents with other of the same or similar quality, always in the light of the speedier performance of the project or its best operational performance. Exempted from any tax, right to detain or levy for the benefit of the public or any third party with the exception of income tax. These exemptions are in the donation contract. They shall be exempted from contributions to insurance institutions, the grant in question and any supply, rental, rental of services or works, leasing of goods and, in general, any contract to be concluded by the institution with any third party in Greece or abroad on the subject of the donation. The institution shall also be exempt from any other tax, from any other charge, entitlement and contribution other than insurance contributions. We must say here that, although tax and other exemptions will lead to a reduction in public revenue, they are justified by the benefit that will arise from donation, so we are voting in favour of the provision and the whole contract between the Onassis Foundation and the Greek state. Article 7 regulates issues relating to the beneficiary of the institution itself, all intellectual property rights over the studies, on the basis of which the new wing of the heart-surgery centre will be built, as well as forecasts for the maintenance of the architecture, monumental character and logos of the "Cardiocratic Center". The Greek State will have the right to use the studies, but will not be able to use or modify them. He won't even be able to use them for building another facility. Not to mention all the articles. Anyway, they're well known, we've studied them, we've seen them and we know them. We won't argue with any of this. We have to say that amendments to the institutional reorganisation of the "Cardiocratic Center" are being introduced by this provision and we hope that Onasios for children, children and transplantation, which is a very big leap in the health sector for Greece, will be completed quickly. Because, until now, what has been done has only been done by patriotism and passion and stubbornness of some people, rich or poor, scientists or not, who have helped build up units for transplants. The majority of the administrative board, i.e. four of the seven members, shall be appointed by the Minister. It is better than that of six of the seven members, once defined in previous cases. If at some point we go to the nomination of three of the seven members by the Minister and the other four members to be a little more free than state and party - government embrace, it will be even better. We will be voting for the entire contract of the "Alexandros Onassis" Foundation with the state as a whole. We have also talked about the amendments and we will be here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u471	Thank you. Mr Cavalellas has the floor to close the circle of rapporteurs
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u472	Thank you, Madam President. The Greek state is currently in a deep recession and huge economic crisis. Although we are professing that we have come out of the memoranda, we will in fact be under the Memorandum regime for many decades. We have basically come out of the economic umbrella of our lenders, Europe, and of course we will suffer the consequences - now that we are going to get out of the free market - of our attempted lending. Fortunately, then, where there are foundations of noble benefactors, those who the Left once renounced as pluralists, capitalists and devoured them with many badly non-qualifying surnames. The Foundation therefore has 70m euros, without VAT, through a contract between the Foundation and the Greek State. Let me remind you that last week the ratification of the donation contract of up to EUR 250 million between public authorities and the Stavros Niarchos Foundation for the establishment of health-related departments was passed. So the good news is that, on the one hand, there are still national thinkers and active national benefactors and, on the other, we are very pleased to see that you have been adapted to reality, because I must remind you of your reactions when the Stavros Niarchos Foundation was set up, when you were opposition. The present contract therefore serves the public interest and proclaims the "Cardiocratic Center Association" as a centre of excellence, which has caused you an allergy before. Excellence was something against your perceptions. Fortunately, however, one of the delusional ones is leaving. We now see practical arrangements in the first part. The second part raises institutional issues of a reorganisational nature. Here, where everything would look good and nice, you are bringing us a dilemma because in the last part of this convention some transitional provisions are in place that negotiate vitally important matters of working relations between staff and the foundation now. While we were grateful to the benefactors especially in these difficult times, we cannot vote in favour, we cannot go hand in hand - because you are confronted with the work rights of the staff. This creates a confusion among staff because it brings about a donation contract that will now act catalytically in the relationship between staff and institutions. You shall put the contract to the vote without giving it the opportunity to put it in transparent procedures without consulting, at least without informing the staff, without informing the associations. Of course you are a majority, you can decide and do according to your superiority. I want to remind you that you are from the left. You should show your sensitivity here and at least at last postpone the vote or at least then contact if there are any amendments to their problems. Our view, therefore, is that labour should be subject to the same legal status as all matters and should not be applied on a case-by-case basis, as is the case in the case of intention. And there is at the moment a reasonable concern about the future, why enter a paragraph in Article 2 with number 2, which says practically? On some occasion, which will be difficult, it allows for a change of purpose and the legal status of the institution by bypassing, of course, the protectionist article 109 of the Constitution on donations. Unfortunately, while donating the Onassis Foundation is of paramount importance in improving health benefits, we cannot support it. We cannot rather support the rationale behind the application of the Convention, because, on the one hand, it is against working rights and, on the other, it is against Article 109 of the Constitution. There are also some articles that give us suspicions of rhetorical recruitment. We shall therefore vote 'the present'. And I come to the amendments: as far as Amendment No 1753/38 is concerned, we are voting 'no'. In Amendment No 1754 we are voting 'no' and in Amendment No 1756 we are voting 'yes'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u473	Thank you, too. Before Parliamentary Representatives only one colleague has asked for the floor. I therefore propose that we give him the floor - then Mr Helios has asked for the floor from the Golden Dawn - and tell me who else you want to speak as Parliamentary Representatives. Here, Mr. Papadopoulos, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u474	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the "Cardiocratic Center" is already a centre of excellence and reference in its field. With the donation he wishes to take many steps above, to become a centre of excellence and reference of international prestige and at European level, to be a centre of reference for organ transplantation and for organ organ organ organ organ organ organ organ organ organ organ organ organ organ organ organs and for organising the paediatric sector in the cardiological clinic, in his paediatric cardiological intervention. I think that this issue, of doing excellent centres, of doing excellent hospitals, of doing excellent public health systems, of quality, of effectiveness, is something that we all have to have. It is a wish that, with the current situation, many public sector hospitals are able to achieve success in many important areas. A few days ago, it had taken place at a conference of Health Care Business Awards of many public hospitals for the achievements of their clinical, field and field areas. Let me tell you features that the Rethymno Hospital was awarded to improve productivity and efficiency. The "Papageor" for the programme of training in the specialization of nurses in the diagnostic sector, the pioneering in education and continuing training in continuing training, the performance of surgical institutions. The "General" for the Ophthalmological Disease Prevention Programme. The "Evangelism" for innovative intravascular interventions in the aorta and many other hospitals such as "Elena Venizelos", "Agios Andreas" as user-friendly hospital, "Sismanoglio", "Venizelio", University of Heraklion. We are rejoicing at Trikala that the cardiological clinic is a centre of reference for a wider area for the emergency coronary episode and for emergency coronary coronary and emergency interventions for agitation and for stepping up, as well as for the quality of the services of the intensive care unit, the artificial kidney unit, several clinics that get awards for many tasks they do. I think this objective must be lasting. This health system we want. It is not true that UNESCO is a centre of the private sector, which provides services at the level of its hunter profit. If we look at his current function and what he says, the interventions he will make in the child-care sector will be even for uninsured families, for uninsured children. Today neither uninsured nor those who go to third - category rooms pay. They pay for those seeking first and second. So it is very important that we see all this area of donation aid in the organisation of the National Health System, because we also have the effort that the Region of Attica, the Region of Western Macedonia, has made to make many and important interventions in support of logistics, support to the EKA and many other sectors, and to see and how we organise our entire continued efforts. In the morning I saw representation from the workers at the "Cardiocratic Center" They have a concern, which I have been transferred as coordinator of the Monitoring and Control Committee for Government work to health. What I would like to say to you is that, following the answers given yesterday by the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr Polakis, the issues that they raise about the freedom of collective bargaining for sectoral contracts, their ability to maintain quality criteria for the provision of services, are a constant concern. After all, the government wants freedom of collective bargaining and we are doing a great deal of work on it. We want, however, in any case, the quality that we give with incentives to workers not to give a sense of injustice to the workers of university hospitals, other general hospitals, because that is not right. I conclude, therefore, by the fact that their memorandum, their resolution from their general assembly, can be seen by the ministers. We know very well that the agreement that has been reached so far with the "Oonessio" Foundation and the "Cardiocratic Center" is not easy to change. It is an agreement that was made after a painful effort. I think, however, that we can take all this seriously into account, as far as possible, for a quality of intervention that strengthens what we want to do with the public health system as a whole, to be qualitative and effective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u475	We too, Mr. Papadopoulos. Mr. Eliopoulos has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u476	Thank you, Madam President. Last week, on the 22nd of the month, there was an event for one of the greatest battles in the history of humanity, for a battle for which dozens of books have been written, films have been filmed - abroad, of course - all of them - done the whole planet. And in order not to characterize it as the greatest battle, I will call it one of the greatest battles - the most flagrant, but - the battle of the Thermopoils. The Greek state, the state that should honour and celebrate this battle, Madam President - and I address the whole House - has not even dealt with it. You haven't dealt with one second here in this House, to honor these people who have been sacrificed for us. Of course these people were sacrificed, and then and then of the next centuries, to come to you today and your government and the previous one, to give everything to those who you call "loaners" and to us "toddlers". In the last few days, reports have been released which you are trying to disprove and which give the assignment of everything. You have blocked the codes, in fact tens of thousands of real estates in the public sector and within them and archaeological sites and museums - you have lost every control - you assign them to the GOID, to the so-called superstition. So basically everything goes to sell-out. We had another case, which really belonged to the police paper. And yet, you're trying to raise on a major political issue an incident that happens every day in our homeland, just happened to be in a place you want to familiarize yourself and want to create heroes through there. These incidents occur daily, but in other cases the victims are Greek and the victims are mostly foreign. But then you didn't make any progress, you didn't come out to say a good reason. You didn't say anything, you didn't make a course for Stamaiadis, who entered his house and beat him to death. You didn't make any progress on Cantares, who was brutally murdered for a camera the day his wife was born. There was neither half a point of support nor for Myrtus, this little girl who was beaten wildly, who melted his head on the rocks and today, after six years, she is in a situation where, if you see her, Madam President, you will cry for three days and believe in what I am saying to you. There, however, was the absolute silence, no wave of support. You see, you all, on the left, on the right, you have selective sensitivity. Over the years you have chosen who will support, who will support, who will support and all this in the name of democracy, in the name of political correctness. We are living, Madam President, in the dictatorship now of political correctness. Anyone who does not agree with you, who does not belong to any of these particular groups, as you have called them, LGBTKI, leftoverists, sedentary, drug addicts, foreigners, any such category that you now call belonging to the politically correct arc, whoever is not with these communities is regarded as fascist and, by extension, accepts all kinds of violence, from verbal to natural, violence that is covered. We're living the theater of irrationality, because after this incident last night there were some episodes that didn't open the nose. The Greek shops broke down in the center of Athens and there was no induction, there was not a single chemistry and I am bringing in my mind the images we all saw in Thessaloniki the previous days or in Pisoderi, when the signatures to the Prespecies for the sale of Macedonia fell. There tons of chemicals fell indiscriminately, to old people, children, women, pregnant women, everyone. Yesterday, however, when your beloved social groups had come out and broke what they found in their path, nothing fell at all. It's like nothing happened yesterday in the center of Athens. You cover everything, because, again, that is politically correct. Greek society is an organization that is deeply ill with all these phenomena, which we now regard as normal everything that is happening. In fact, your Minister, Germany, said today that he would order an investigation into this incident at the jewelry store. Yesterday, the Minister itself saw chrysaugus among those who hit Constantine, your congressman. Of course, we condemn all acts of violence. That's something we don't talk about. But, on the other hand, you have recently seen goldsmiths everywhere in Greece, in what happens to seeing goldsmiths everywhere, this is only explained by the fact that you've been trying to rally an audience that you've been watching for so many years with lies and over the last months that the most ignorant of the government's lies are over, you have no other message to tell them and you've turned it back to the bad fascists who hit the world all day. You have not understood, therefore, that the world is being pissed off by your policies either on national or social issues. It has nothing to do with Golden Dawn, it is the mere Greek citizen, who each for his own reason is angry and badly manifests cases of violence, but who have nothing to do with the Golden Dawn and I want to say it. In fact, I would like to denounce that there are incidents of organised provocation. Golden Dawn is a legitimate political party. He is conducting a fair struggle to save the honor of our homeland and to restore dignity to all Greeks. That's what hurts you, and that's what gives us strength. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u477	Thank you. Mr Theocharopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u478	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will start first of all from what was discussed this morning. I will not repeat this morning's debate. I am referring to the issue of self-defense. Amendments were tabled this morning. I put a question in 2017. I have received an answer from Mr. Contonis that he will not change. This morning in the debate that took place there was only a theoretical trend - not a substantial shift from the government and SYRIZA to change the law, so that journalists do not go to the eyewitness for exaltation and slander. That's all I'm talking about. Another amendment has been tabled, as far as I know. Unfortunately, however, the government does not change it, it remains in the words. And if it stays in the talk until the elections - wherever they are - there is a suspicion that it is also held for intimidation purposes. And in order for there to be no such suspicion, this must be done. Otherwise, it makes no sense to talk. I have heard today in Parliament the Golden Dawn and the ANELs support the process of self-sacrificing. They were the only ones who supported her in the words. I have not heard any other parties support it and say that it needs to remain. If I have listened well to my fellow Members - and I think I am interpreting them - we have all said that the self-professional process of defamation should not be maintained - and the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u479	The Minister of Justice has taken the initiative.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u480	The Justice Minister said, yes, but we'll fix it along the way, we'll see it in a committee. The former Minister of Justice, Mr. Kontonis - I tabled it in the Minutes - said no last year. Well, here and now. Don't you want today? Do you want the Minister to table an amendment so that it is not a parliamentarian from the Opposition? Let the Minister testify. To come to a next bill. But at last, I think that's not helping either of us. You have tabled several amendments. Before I begin, then, I should like to say a few words about the draft bill that we can no longer do with that logic of the amendments. Indeed, a number of articles have been analysed in an amendment, which we in fact disagree with a number of articles, we agree with some others, and we are trying to see how we deal with them. This cannot be the case, and in particular - and this is unprecedented - we will not stop saying so - in sanctions for conventions and in harmonisation of directives. This process cannot continue, because it is not being discussed in a ratification as it is in a bill that lasts two days. It is not possible within two hours that there should also be amendments in place and that the previous ones should say that they have done so. They're doing it today. Who's making it worse? And that you know doesn't honor all the political system and in the end the world that listens to us goes to anti-political solutions that are deeply afflictive in the end. And I think we should at least agree on that. For example, various amendments are being tabled. That's why I wanted to hear from the ministers sometime to let us know, to see what we're going to say in relation to the placement. For example, I am referring to the amendment on recruitment, where there is no establishment plan. The rapporteur for the Democratic Alliance has explained that. Tens of recruitments are now coming, a hundred and sixty from here, three hundred from there, without having the organograms. Couldn't we wait to have the organogram directly? Why this need now? Of course they should be recruited, and of course they need the whole system, but the point is to explain some things to us. That is why we would prefer the debate to take place otherwise. In any case, you will then tell us what the reason is and what the assurance is, since we do not know where they will be allocated.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u481	We've been through this, but you've been gone.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u482	If it is what you said, Mr Polakis, a moment ago, and what you have said to the committees - because we have read them - we are not satisfied at all. Because it's without an organogram and we don't know where they're going. He analyzed it, if I heard it correctly, the KIC's special speaker. He's been analyzing it very enthusiastically. We don't know where everyone's going to be distributed right now. So you need to give us some details. Otherwise, there will be suspicions and suspicions that they can be used in another way. Just a week ago we discussed another donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, and we all concluded that donations to the many paths of health are not just welcome but necessary. They are necessary, because no matter how much you deny it, no matter how much you want to see an almost ideal situation in the hospitals of the country and in general in the health field, the reality disguises you every day. There's a problematic reality. You have a strange way of dealing with health issues in the government. Minister, I would like to refer to another matter. I think you also answered a question in Parliament this morning on the issue of vaccination. Once again a 'yes' but' ignited. Correct me if I'm wrong. You said that vaccination with the consent of parents is of course compulsory if I understood the answer correctly. So I ask the following question: the Ministry of Health with a document - and this document has caused the great confusion - says that the parent can present the certificate of contraception so that the child is not vaccinated. There was an anti-invasive movement coming up. We even saw a show on public television, which actually made its presentation. The question is: Are we going to close this issue by legislating compulsory legislation? Our neighbor Italy did it. Are we going to close it or leave it to the law-engineering record for uninvasive children? On this question, which was at the level of parliamentary control, I did not hear your answer this morning. But because here's your bill, you can answer to say...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u483	If you read it again in detail, you will understand that the matter has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u484	I have heard that it is necessary, but it is not compulsory. That's what I understand. If some parents don't want to be vaccinated by the children, they won't be inoculated. Are we going to more stringent measures? I bring you an example from Italy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u485	Who's done what?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u486	He's legislated on compulsoryity.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u487	What's that supposed to mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u488	Minister, answer specifically.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u489	Ladies and gentlemen, do not engage in dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u490	I did not see an "licensing" of your Ministry's document...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u491	There's no paper from the Ministry. You're lying.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u492	Well now, all Greece has seen it. You disproved your ministry, too? Do you disprove your service factors too?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u493	What service?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u494	Minister, a statement of counter-response...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u495	Reproducing what the press writes. There's nothing you're watching. Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u496	Calm down, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u497	Your turbulence is showing the problem. You would've solved it with a certain position, that it's compulsory.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u498	That's what happened this morning in detail.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u499	Minister, there's a document from your ministry. In your Ministry's document you have not intervened at all since the matter came up. And it came up not from us. Of all Parliament's wings, there has been a matter. As far as this donation is concerned, it is obviously welcome. Upgrade of the “Holy Heart Surgery Center”, as well as the Transplant Center and the Children's Onion Centre will raise the level of services provided, reduce high public spending and significantly reduce the migration of experienced scientists abroad in these sectors. The country has sufficient and highly trained scientific staff, which unfortunately is looking for its fate abroad. However, it also has a major network of state infrastructures, which are abandoned and declining by policies which are impasses. We also have one of the most active private health sectors - it is true - mainly in urban centres, of course, focused on specific areas. What is lacking, however, is the vision, the plan and, above all, the political will to go forward, to rebuild an effective public health system for Greek citizens, making use of collaboratively rather than competitive state and private structures and infrastructures. The health system is still the big patient. It cannot and should not only be based on donations. Where there is no modern, autonomous and effective health system is missing one of the most basic pillars of the social state for which your government is often slashed into words. What's the problem? It is that a genuinely public health system with social services can function. And that's necessary. This is the basic policy of the progressive, social-democratic forces, so that we do not have logic which then come with subsidised policies to solve the problems. Despite announcements and heavy statements, in practice, disparities have widened, annual government funding has decreased and citizens' participation in health expenditure has increased. Of course, on the other hand, the New Democracy undermines public health services with the declarations of its officials, promotes the decline of the welfare state, waste and debt accumulation. That's how she went over all of her times of rule. The New Democracy gradually unfolds its perception of complete liberalisation of the health market, which undermines the public character of the system and cancels the necessary principle of universal coverage. The creation of multi-speed care systems is visible. Finally, either because of the inability to rely on a centralised system, as the government wants, or because of the selective support of private structures from the New Democracy, the EHS, a major reform for its time, which has, of course, been undermined by many governments, is in danger of being degraded to a system of only foreshadowed, a system of low and degraded services. In return to donation, our concern lies, as with all donations, in the issue of early implementation. In this case, three JACs and two ministerial decisions are required. This experience is rather disappointing. I will not go into details, most of them have been discussed. What I want to say is that we really need major structural changes in health, brave initiatives for the reconstruction and completion of the National Health System. Now, as long as we ever need a health system that faces with dignity and respect for the citizen. We also have a document, Mr Ministers - and here I am thinking of colleagues - of the workers of the Onassisian Heart Surgery Centre, in which workers refer to a provision which is in the Annex, on the basis of which any possibility of determining the remuneration of workers cannot be done by means of collective bargaining. The new regulation, they say, has not been passed by the committee responsible - it has not gone through - and no public consultation has taken precedence. They say, of course, that such arrangements should, at least to convince or not convince people, when they are being circumvented by collective bargaining, have to go through and discuss more extensively with the workers themselves. It is my question, however, really: do we want to reintroduce collective bargaining in general or do we not want to reinstate them? All right, I'm talking now. Our view is that we want to. I hear it's yours, too. Once we want to, how do we come here with arrangements to circumvent collective bargaining in this sector of workers? Is there a certain target? In conclusion, I will say that we really need a modern model of providing services where a central objective is man and improving healing efficiency, economic efficiency and equality in the provision of services. These are the goals, to them we must incubate. Instead of being upset, ladies and gentlemen of the government, with what is being done in your Ministries and what you do not disprove all the previous days and let them stand in the public sphere, it is better to answer the specific questions that the Opposition asks you. That is the role of counter-population, that is your role and not, of course, of opposing opposition.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u500	Mr. Xydakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u501	The Minister will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u502	You've come to an understanding, all right. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the Department that the Standing Committee on Production and Trade presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: 'Themes of water, urban road transport and other provisions'. Here, Mr Polakis, you have the floor for eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u503	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all a general remark: you cannot criticise the bill, apart from this part you are talking about work - and I will answer - and most of you have thrown the ball in the field, remembering what exists in the upper world. I shall begin with the bill and answer everything that has been said about both the amendments and some other objections, etc. I will repeat a few things that I said in committee, because the Greek people have to listen to them, because this is a meeting of the Summer Department and not of the committee. I begin with the following point, to which no one referred: why was the grant of the "Onceusian" Foundation today for the National Transmissible Center? One big reason why it was because we cleaned up the "Cardiocratic Center" of the huge debts you had charged to him in 2010 to 2014. You loaded him. That works a lot, doesn't just get one. In January 2015, we received “Ononsio” with debts of more than 120 million euros. There was a political choice of the government, it joined the central government bodies, it was financed by the EEAS above, it was financed by the due schedule and with 54 million, which it received, it paid EUR 90 million of debts, forcing suppliers and suppliers and a bank to make a large discount on the invoices the suppliers had given to the bank, because all this debt was in the era of the great 'partner', despite the period of the memorandums. It was terribly overpriced with materials. In other words, to say so with figures, stents, which today the Union buys 400, 500, 600 euros, in these invoices were charged 1.500, 2 000 and 2,500 euros. I'm only saying that for one piece of material. There are 16 million left and at the moment they are in a tough negotiation with three banks, in order to proceed to a "haircut" of 50% of the debt and to be able to complete and completely clean Onasios, and this will be done in one way or another. The first reason, therefore, for donating the Onassis Foundation is why we are building a "Cardiocratic Association", which has been net of debts for two years - and in 2016 and 2017 - does not give rise to new debts. Here I am referring here to a number of general issues. Yeah, that's the big difference. At the time of the memoranda, we have carried out a different political plan. Yeah, there's a surplus. Yeah, the pensions won't be cut. Yes, the tax-free will not be applied. Yeah, there's gonna be a series of things, 'cause there's a surplus. Where are they? We're not cheating, guys. Have you gotten it? We're not cheating. That's where they're abundant. Do you understand? We increased what we could within the July 2015 agreement, i.e. the money to the health sector, fell unemployment, increased the profits of the EEA, which we directed towards in the public health sector. That's what's happened. There was no miracle. It's another political choice. We didn't deal with companies, nor with suppliers. It can still be done at the base and locally. It's done, we know it, and we'll move on, and we'll move on, because with a maniac, axe doesn't cut the branch, but a manaeuvre cuts the big branch. We cut her off, and that's where a lot of money was going. That's what's left of it and we're doing it. I say this in order to answer Mr Fotella's question as to where we found them. That's the reality. What can we do? When 27% of unemployment has become 19% and goes below 19% with the new data coming out, this also means increasing inflows in insurance contributions. So, where the IMF was pressing us that we will have 900, 800 million deficit in EVC as of January 1, 2019, it is not yet confirmed yet again. So, why? Of course, they also have a surplus for the countermeasures we said at the time as a balance of cuts. Let's go down. What will be made by the "Occession"? It will build next door - I have answered in detail, Mr Xanthos will tell you - the transplant centre that will also contain a pediatric - paedophile-surgery clinic where there really is a deficit in the country. We are also preparing a series of legislative regulations - you will soon see them - in the bill that will come for private clinics and for the new ERIC that changes to EAEC. There will include a number of provisions concerning the new transplant framework, because we are really back as a country. I have spoken to the committee about the cultural and religious burden that we are carrying in connection with the finding of grafts and donors, which is a very big problem. We are resolving a number of issues relating to Intensive Treatment Units, which are the main link in the process of finding the grafts, and I think we will slowly go to this area better, where we are not going as well as we would like by now. I would also like to say that we have initiated a co-operation with UNICE, claiming the re-acquisition of Henry Dynan, which, by means of specific legislation and specific acts of the past, contributed four ministers, from Abrahamopoulos, Loverdos, Georgiadis and Voridis, was given to Piraeus Bank in 'HMITHA', a company with 200 000 share capital, a debt of EUR 100 million, which is also the subject of the Committee of Inquiry in Parliament. So let's get him back and control under the public sector and strengthen the 'Government'. The "Onceau" is not a private clinic - to go to this part as well and finish - but it is sponsored by the state. We are increasing its subsidy to 20% of the budget that it has today and that it will have tomorrow. Because tomorrow it will definitely have the National Transmitter Center and it can also have Henry Dunan as a third clinic. The Greek state is committed to supporting this thing, just like EEAY, and we are doing so. I would like to say a word to get this over with with. It does not change either the wage scheme or the insurance scheme - pension scheme of today's workers. It does not change the insurance scheme of those who will be recruited after the contract. It is clear, however, that a class has to be entered now and we cannot support the customer-sponsored logic of granting benefits for an indefinite period. Because we know which and in what ways they appointed a large part of the staff there, as well as the massification that had been carried out at that time in relation to some allowances. The payroll in the respective public sector services comes as a boozer. Clearly there will be a productivity premium - because it does not only have a state grant - and clearly there will be a negotiation of the "Onauseum" union with the administration of the "Onaiseios" in which the majority of the Greek State holds the majority, and I think that everything that is likely to exist will be solved along the way. But it is clear. The UEE Convention cannot cover the "Onceau", which is the Federation of Nursing Institutions and which is private clinics. The "October" is not a private clinic. The Union is supervised by the public and must move there slowly. Because there is the contract of the first donation which is also the law of the state and is constitutionally protected There is private law of indefinite duration. They're not civil servants, they have IKA. It is therefore paradoxical that there are some appearances and huge wage differences from relevant officials, when the Greek State supports the operation in this way and will also support in the future, as reflected in this law, the operation of the "Cardiocratic Center", the Transplant Center and the Metabolic Center, and the integration and the "Erikos Dynan" there. So there has been a long collaboration with the Onassis Foundation, and I would very clearly like to thank them who are progressing to this donation. We believe that we, as Greek State and as Ministry of Health, did a series of things that we believe facilitated the process of this donation and added to the other great donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, which was also made for certain reasons as we have spoken about. Don't talk again. I would now like to refer to a few more specific things that have to do with the amendments. I think I answered those colleagues who spoke before. I shall begin with the amendment we have on the recommendation of the positions. You weren't some people before here. I repeat. I may speak intensely, but I think I speak well Greek. In order to be able to proclaim from the indisposed 700 posts of doctors we have from the 2,000 cabinet act, we have chosen the 457 of them to go to primary care, not to the TOMY, but to the civil or provincial health centers, because we want to strengthen secondary and primary care. I mean, where the other doctor can run tests, see him, not the family doctor, the doctor, the pathologist, or the pediatrician who's in the TOMY or with the EOPY's acquaintances. We want to strengthen these structures. So, as you've done and we're making things again - but what to start with in this country! - as a number of positions we have in health regions, but we don't have it named. I mean, I want another cardiologist - let's say - at the Piraeus Health Center, which is the old Navy House. I want it in Ithaca to go pathologist or cardiologist, and I still don't have it named because the organogram was provided for another position. We have done a great deal of work, Mr Colleague, on the basis of the proposals that have come to us from all the health regions and on the basis of the possibilities we have. We have been able to satisfy the vast majority of the demands that have come to us, what is needed in the civil-type health center in Heraklion, what is needed in the respective Alexandroupolis, what is needed in Mytilini, what is needed right and left. So that's 457 such positions as we didn't have their name for 187. In order for the notice to come out, this legislation must be laid down. That's what our Constitution says, that's what our legislation says. The same goes for - and say this clearly - do not criticise, in general and vaguely - for the 1 200 subsidiary staff. The 500 people were hired before we took over and extended their term of office until 31-12-2018 and now until 31-5-2019, because people actually offer. The first 550 and the second 600 were recruited in positions that were needed by hospitals, i.e. either administrations that were very few, or nursing staff who were too many, or manufacturers in radiological, laboratory, technicians. Even an ambulance driver we've hired through this process. I remember the one who serves in Amorgos and we had a Commissioner and did not pay him once and for a time there. So as far as these people who have covered gaps are concerned, the system has worked, we have come to know that a statement of 1,200 people who will have the seats they are currently serving is required. But when these were recruited, there were no empty organic posts everywhere, and we recommend them, because we have an excess in all hospitals in the country over 1,000 of the existing ones, which we can allocate. So what is your criticism now for me to understand? Don't you want to do this? Shouldn't we name them? We said that we would modulate their pre-service because they offered - some of them are already five years in the system - so that the vast majority of the positions that are currently serving will go. That's what we said. Do you disagree? If you disagree, excuse me, say it, people know what they will do. Say it clean! If someone who has more molecules is found, he'll take the place. We can't commit it, but we're going to give a molecule. It's the same conversation we talked about, about the same conversation, it's not the same one, if you remember, with the cleanliness workshops that we did here, which we sent out the contractors. But we wanted to get rid of the contractors, not the cleaners, which is why we have mobilized their pre-service. The vast majority we took with the contracts of employment are those who served before where they had such workshops. So tell me where you disagree, right to left, and what criticism this is. Colleague, George Lambroulis, for example, you shouldn't have criticized that, because you understand why we're doing this. It is very much a charitable and, in the interests of the public health system, this regulation. What's the rushphetti? Did I or did Andreas anywhere in Greece, who have proclaimed twenty thousand positions of a best friend?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u504	I didn't say that. I did not say the word 'rusphetti'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u505	Wouldn't they have hanged us in the handkerchiefs? You say: 'Appointments are made'. What can we do? We're fighting with a system that's made with such a daring bureaucratic mechanism. Yes, I wish we could, what we are voting today as an amendment, do with a ministerial decision. Then wouldn't you tell us we're making ruffettie? That's why we're going through the House. So say where you disagree. It's a total falsification of what you're saying about Matty. I explained before that, as was actually formulated in legislation on firefighting measures, it seemed that we only cover the pharmaceutical expenditure for the first time that they were going back to the pharmacy, for the drugs that were destroyed, while we give them until the end of the year! So why would he go apart? I don't get it. To find an opportunity not to vote for the above! But answer me why you disagree with that now that we've explained it like that. I'll go to one last thing, too. Listen, Mr. Carras, you may disagree, but you have a nice reason and you're shallow in some phases and so on. You don't know the story here, and you're probably being lured by Mr. Gregorakos, who...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u506	I'm waiting for the legislature.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u507	Listen, what you brought today with what you brought last time has a difference in five words, you didn't put it in the last time. You say: 'In all the IF beds'. It can't be accepted and it won't be as long as we're government, clean and clear. And I'll explain it...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u508	See the last one. It just has a reversal of words.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u509	No, listen to me, Mr. Carras, "A hundred fox, a hundred and two pudding" cannot be done. You're older than me, but I know the space. I've been at intensive care units since 1996. So, listen to me answer you, and the Greek people understand, why don't we just accept it, why don't we just take it from me next time, because we told them that it's true, why are they bringing it back? This is an amendment that Mr Gregorakos had brought to him and I told him it was not possible. We accepted the uninsured one and accepted it. You bring it back, without these words, I tell you that it is true and you are putting it back with these words. Listen to me, the insurance funds before, the IKA basically, and since EEAY was made, they've been making contracts with private clinics, which, you know, don't all do that. Many clinics give from the beds of the ITHs that have a number of beds - I've done it, I was the second clinic in the country that has done this, it was the "Dynan" and then the "Isis" in Piraeus, who was the director at that clinic with IKA at the time, in 2006. So they give a number of beds to which patients will be hospitalized for free, because they do not find a bed in a public hospital structure. So, one of them hits in Nice, he's wounded, he goes to the hospital in Nice, he's invaded, he's given the first aid, he's surgery, he doesn't have the NYPD in Nice. Private clinics, with free-paid beds, have said to the C.E.D. that they have been empty. If he also has the possibility for this particular incident, he takes it and the EKEB, if Nice hadn't had and had the "Grannas", he would take it from Nice and take it to his unit "Grannas". If neither Nice nor the "Geneva" nor the "Evangelism" had a blank bed for the clinic that I was in Piraeus - Apostolos closed it for other reasons to make Gaia on "Dynn" - he took it from EKAV and brought it, he was nursed to us, in this clinic, he did not pay euros and he returned it when he went out to the hospital from which he took it. That's what happened. She was a little undernourished. We make it with the new EMCDDA, we make this thing crystal. And we are demanding that all the clinics that have ICUs in this context give us a number of such beds. We don't tell them to give it to us. If they have ten beds, give us two, three. Some middle-aged decent clinics can give us everything. What are you telling me? You are telling me - and this is what is happening today and we have added it and we have accepted it - that an uninsured citizen, who goes to Nice after a heavy surgery, suffers an infection, is also incorporated, and this citizen, even uninsured, can use these beds that I said now. And he's going to be taken by the N.C.E.D. right now, and the E.C.'s going to take the cost, let's not be insured. We've taken that. What you're saying here is another thing. Here this word was added "and in all the IF beds". That's another thing, that's another deal here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u510	It's not deal, I disagree.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u511	That means: I don't have a bed, I don't have a bed in public ICU, I don't seem to have a bed in private ICU with a contract and the UCU takes him to the private clinic to pay privately. No, no, because this opens a lot of windows, don't expand.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u512	I just had a feeling she says in that she's being carried...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u513	Listen to me. It creates this background for other types of transactions and I stop here and will not be accepted. I don't think I have anything else to say. The rest will be answered by Mr. Blondos. I would like to close by saying just one word about the amendment tabled by the Potami to abolish the self-sacrifice through the press. It can't be accepted. From what we have been informed, the Ministry of Justice is preparing such a comprehensive arrangement for other offences, which will abolish the self-defence in the context of the change in the Criminal Procedure. I'd just like to make a comment. Now because the man responsible for the "Flief" Mr. Mavridis and the other one from "Capital" who writes there rose a revolution. I didn't see this revolution when Mrs. Stournara had sued Mr. Vaxebane, who had taken all the laundry out in the forum and arrested him at that time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u514	No "revolution", liberals do not have revolutions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u515	All those who today break their clothes on freedom of the press, etc., for Mr. Vaxebanes, I had never seen you say half a word, nothing. "And a little did to him," some wrote. "And it offends the woman of the architopezite," some wrote. Or am I wrong? So it's a false copy of what you're saying. Why do you know something? Have you noticed what I've been writing? I normally had to do five sues a day! From lies, fascisms, one, the other, and it's understood that I - what should we do, guys? - I'm not a very nice kid, and I'm answering. What can we do? It can't be done. Of course, the good guy wants better, and the bad guy wants worse. Is that right? And it is not possible for all those who, every year, took six, ten, fifteen air, free money from the CEDEFOP, when you take their laundry out of the forum, to call you "dog", "washed", "washed", "washed out", "anarchial laundry", I don't know what, "yes." What have they told me? How many lawsuits do I have to do the day and the story caught us? No, obviously not. I've barely been sued. I have barely been treated by your various colleagues, who were normally and monthlyly fed by the "Papemitriou" system, by CEDEFOP, who had it both from Abrahamus and Loverdos and Adonis and Borides. So, we'll talk by their name. That's why you were smuggled because you fed them that way. And now they're up. And through this feeding Mrs Stournara ate too. He was eating. And it makes us - listen! - and a lawsuit, Andreas and I, because we responded to the anti-cancer program, which was from a previous NRP because they didn't have time to eat it all! It had been done in a certain way to get the job to work there. That was first published in that interview, which one of your colleagues called me a "dog" and I replied as I answered. At a next event, I said I should normally be up to three meters down the ground. If you are told 'dog', you would tell them to tell you 'cats'. Because that's what happened and they hid it then. We were giving the interview, and we were happy with Andreas and told them: Look what we discovered! This is where Mrs Stournara took them from the CEDEFOP and got them for health messages that had to be displayed for free! And it took 600 thousand euros! And because we cut the rest of us is suing for the country's revenue loss! Because we've arrived here now. How am I supposed to know, then, that your colleagues underneath, the nine out of ten that we had in front of us, were fed - then I didn't know, now I learned - with the month of the CEDEFOP and made this attack? As much as you hide them, it's all going to be in the forum. And if we had a justice that worked faster, some people should see the world today, stripers, because it should be behind the bars! But this time will come too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u516	Madam President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u517	I'll give you the floor for a minute. Mr Shahinides has also asked for the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u518	Thank you very much, Madam President. Two things, fast. One relates to two amendments to the Rules of Procedure. Let the ministers tell us if they accept them. It has already been said by the Deputy Minister for two which are not accepted. There's two more. The second, for which I have asked for the floor. Mr Paulakis referred to my position on the position I have previously made. I did not say the word 'rusphetti' at all. I challenge him to look at the Minutes. So it cannot put such words in my mouth, in our mouth, if you want, because we are not just individuals, we also represent a parliamentary space and a party. Those words from me didn't come out. Now, if he wants to translate them like this, it is his right. But I would ask him, Madam President, to withdraw and delete from the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u519	You didn't say that. You did not say about rosphetti, you said 'to hire'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u520	I didn't say a word.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u521	On the contrary, you said, 'to hire'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u522	If he knew that... I expect the President to be present for this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u523	Mr. Shahinides has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u524	Thank you, Madam President. Finally, the subject of discussion today was the parliamentary amendment, with a general number of 1749 and a specialist of 137, which was not accepted. The Change Movement, PASOK, that is, through his parliamentary representative, referred to the Golden Dawn. However, I believe that I was so precise, that I do not need to interpret what I said from the Step forward on this amendment. I said that the protection of freedom of the press and, furthermore, that everyone should be able to write what they want and not suffer the consequences. I could bring in a thousand two examples. I believe that no one in this House would tolerate journalists who are subject to specific parties freely plundering, muddling and accusing people, without any consequences. What for? What exactly do you want to protect by supporting this exactly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u525	The Minister for Health, Mr. Andreas Blondos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u526	First of all, we accept the parliamentary amendment with a special number of 1759 and a specialist of 143. As we have explained, it essentially provides for the setting-up of three organic positions in the Argon Hospital Emergency Department - one of the hundred and eighty-two seats that we have now legislated - to support this section, which unfortunately did not have this provision in the old hospital. I would also like to make it clear from the outset that I think that this, built in my view, concern at this time about the issue of vaccination policy has been fully answered. I explained this morning to my dear colleague Mr Lykoudi that nothing has changed in the strategy and the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education and in general in the country's vaccination policy. By taking into account new data and new risks from this period, and by accepting suggestions from the relevant scientific bodies and not from professional associations, we will proceed to the necessary interventions, which will enhance this culture of vaccination and protect and shield public health. I am tabling the retransmission from the instruments of this debate, which I think is absolutely clear and clear. And I think that any reintroduction of this issue, in my view, is a misunderstood one. [[At this point, Minister Andreas Xanthos submits for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Stenography and Practice Directorate.]] Now the big issue we are discussing today is a new donation made by an institution of mutual interest, such as the Onassis Foundation. It is an important investment, which involves upgrading and upgrading the infrastructure of the existing "Objectives Cardioracy Centre", as well as the creation of a new national transplant centre, which will operate in operational contact and interconnection with the current "Objectives Cardioracy Centre". The great picture, ladies and gentlemen, is that in a period of budgetary narrowness, there is obviously an investment by a private body, but it is part of a plan for the overall upgrading of the public health system. The previous donation, which we discussed last week, was also served by the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, on different terms. In our view this is the same logic. I really think that, with the partnership of the Greek public, the Onasis Foundation and the Onassis Heart Surgery Association, this intervention covers a large gap which existed in the country's health policy, which was to address the major transplant problem, with sufficient reliability, with the ability to meet people's needs, without the very costly movement of patients who have to undergo transplantation abroad, which is unfortunately happening today. So it comes after many years, after two and a half decades of 'Cardiocratic Center' was founded - which then also covered a national deficit in the area of heart surgery - with this donation also covering a national deficit in the transplant section. This is excellent, it serves the public interest and promotes the idea, the culture of organ donation, which is indeed lacking in our country. And we have very low standards in this period compared with other developed countries in Europe. There are therefore favourable conditions for a new vision for the "Cardiocratic Center" in my opinion, in terms of public interest, also in the area of cardiology, heart surgery and adults, in the area of transplants and in the area of clinical research on rare cardiovascular diseases. Already in this period of reference for rare cardiovascular diseases at the "Cardiocratic Center", a reference centre that promotes research on these diseases, organises population tests and performs tests by the laboratory of the "Oonessios Cardioperative Center" related to populations that have an increased frequency of genes associated with arthropogenic myocardiopathies, such as Naxos. There is a project at the moment when five thousand hemorrhages will be made from a population in the wider Cyclades region and there will be control over families and individuals who have indicated that they can bring the gene and that will be an excellent measure of prevention even sudden cardiac deaths. This is, therefore, a social approach and a social offer already provided by the "Cardiocratic Center", beyond, of course, the undeniable quality of the services it provides to all citizens, especially in the area of heart surgery. And here there's a point - incision. This very important nursing institution, which is indeed a hybrid between a private operation and a public service, will now be able, after the adoption of this law, to accept, like the other citizens, the uninsured citizens. So uninsured citizens, who really could not think that they would be treated equally at the "Cardiocratic Center" from now on with the use of their AMKA, like other insured citizens - possibly with the financial burdens that this entails from the current operation of the centre - will be able to access them. This, too, is a significant change. It is therefore an intervention that strengthens a tendency to integrate this complex of therapies and services into the wider functioning of the public sector. And that is what I think we need today and the overall political plan also serves our own, which says that priority should be given to supporting the ESS, precisely to cover people's health needs with universality, equality and efficiency. It is another type of partnership, therefore, between the State and private investors. It does not have the speculative logic of well-known PPPs, which is the Health Policy Tool of Antipolitics. It really proves that in a period of great public care needs there is a political leadership, there is a government, which has the credibility of obtaining assistance and financial support, which is obviously disgusting, on the basis of the budgetary constraints that exist, to strengthen public care and the welfare state in our country. And, of course, that would mean credibility on our part, otherwise there would be no such offer. Paul explained - and it is very interesting - how the framework was the financial framework, exactly how it was managed in previous years. I have a study by the University of Piraeus of 2017, a development study of the "National Heart Surgery Center" with Professor Ioannis Paulis, who is mentioned - has an interest in finding it, I imagine it will exist on the Internet - in the colossal debts, in the damages and, of course, there is an explicit mention that its operational deficits have been very high and only in the last two years they have begun to nullify. This is the territory of a credible cooperation, this ensures that these investments actually have social recompense and will not be dispersed by diligent people. I think too much has been said about recruitment. There is progress - and we are ending with this amendment - in fact the last phase of the recruitment of permanent doctors of the ESS that we have had. A total of two thousand seven hundred sixty seats plus six hundred old ones, frozen, declared before the crisis, and re-enacted. So we have a total of three thousand or three thousand permanent posts of doctors of the ESS that will be proclaimed and in the process of crisis and selection. That for the data of the juncture, for a period of great limitations, I think it is a huge hemorrhaging of the National Health System, which obviously has more needs and we owe it precisely in the new memorial period to strengthen this intervention and that perspective. I therefore believe that this intervention cancels the basic account of counter-population, that this government can neither secure private investment nor can it ensure the operation of centres of excellence in the country. This thing is really falling apart. It turns out that apart from the philology and the well-known rhetoric that develops from the side of Anti-Population there is a government that is silently, systematically, seriously and with a plan precisely implements this line and strengthens the quality of the care offered to the world, of course, in a field that has problems, which has uncovered needs, but I think in particular in the new memorial phase it also has more possibilities. I shall end with a fundamental lie, which has been attempted today by the New Democracy, its representative. Why, beware of, there are the de facto lies, which are spoken in political controversy, but there are also provoking lies, which cannot be tolerated. To say, then, that in the New Democracy the coverage of uninsured people began, offends the intelligence of hundreds of thousands of people, who in recent years knew that they were excluded from the health system and who saw a guaranteed and secure access to public health. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] There was indeed a ministerial decision, which remained inactive, no one learned, no one dealt with it, the hospitals continued to block the hospitals' hospitals' hospitals and the treatment of uninsured people, and they continued when their hospitals were absolutely necessary to charge them unbearable hospitals, which, as Paul said, by legislation, were also deleted by the hospitals at this time sending notes to the citizens and said that your debt to the hospital of this period has been cancelled after intervention and consultation with the DU in which it had been transferred. I think, therefore, that you are really causing the intelligence of all of us when you say that this issue has been dealt with. Not to tell you now about the pharmaceutical coverage of uninsured citizens, which last year reached EUR 185 million, and this year we estimate that it will reach about EUR 200 million. Indeed, it was a huge void of medical care, which was dealt with with with dignity, at parity and, of course, with the same problems as the insured citizens, no one sees it. And I think it is precisely because this is the most distinctive imprint in this government's health policy and social policy, which is why you are annoyed, and that is why you are trying in every way to degrade it or say that you have done so too. I therefore think that these two crucial interventions, the coverage of insecure citizens and the support and strengthening of public care, are an excellent investment in the dignity and social cohesion of the country that this government has done, and that is now recognised and valued positively in the daily lives of hundreds of thousands of people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u527	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u528	Mr. Minister, the demand of the "break" is accepted... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u529	Mr. Lightla, please. Ask permission first to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u530	It can't be accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u531	Is SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative Mr Nikolaos Xydakis here? It's not. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned on the principle of the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Following a donation contract between the Social Benefits Foundation "ALEXANDROS S.A.", the Onassis Heart Surgery Centre (O.K.)" and the Greek State and other provisions.’ Questioned by the Department: Can the bill be accepted in principle?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u532	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u533	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u534	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u535	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u536	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u537	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u538	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u539	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u540	Consequently, the Legislation of the Ministry of Health: ‘Creation of a donation contract between the Social Benefit Foundation ‘ALEXANDROS S.ONASS’, the Onassis Heart Surgery Centre (O.K.) the Greek State and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority in principle. We shall now vote on the articles and amendments. Questioned by the Department: Can Article first be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u541	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u542	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u543	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u544	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u545	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u546	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u547	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u548	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u549	The first article was therefore accepted as a majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u550	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u551	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u552	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u553	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u554	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u555	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u556	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u557	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u558	The second paragraph of Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u559	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u560	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u561	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u562	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u563	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u564	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u565	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u566	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u567	The third paragraph of Article 3 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will the section be asked: is the amendment accepted under a general number 1753 and a special number of 138?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u568	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u569	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u570	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u571	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u572	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u573	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u574	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u575	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u576	Therefore, Amendment No 1753 and Special Representative 138 were accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Questions to the Department: Can the amendment be accepted under the general number 1754 and by a specialist of 139 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u577	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u578	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u579	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u580	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u581	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u582	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u583	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u584	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u585	Therefore, Amendment No 1754 and Special Representative No 139 were accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Asked by the Department: Can the amendment be accepted under a general number of 1756 and a special number of 141 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u586	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u587	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u588	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u589	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u590	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u591	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u592	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u593	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u594	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1756 and a specialist of 141 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Will the section be asked: is the amendment accepted under a general number 1759 and a specialist of 143 in its own right?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u595	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u596	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u597	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u598	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u599	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u600	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u601	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u602	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u603	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1759 and a specialist of 143 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are moving on to the vote of the President-in-Office of the Council. Questioned by the Department: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u604	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u605	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u606	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u607	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u608	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u609	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u610	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u611	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u612	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the Legislation of the Ministry of Health: ‘Creation of a donation contract between the Social Benefit Foundation ‘ALEXANDROS S.ONASS’, the Onassis Heart Surgery Centre (O.K.) and the Greek State and other provisions’ has been accepted in principle and in Articles. We move on to vote on the bill and on the whole. Questioned by the Department: Can the bill be accepted in the whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u613	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u614	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u615	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u616	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u617	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u618	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u619	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u620	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u621	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the Legislation of the Ministry of Health: ‘Creation of a donation contract between the Social Benefit Foundation ‘ALEXANDROS S.ONASS’, the Onassis Heart Surgery Centre (O.K.) and the Greek State and other provisions’ has been accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u622	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the Chamber to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u623	The Department therefore granted the requested authorisation. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-27-S1-commons.u624	With the consent of the Department, 17.08' the meeting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, 28 September 2018 at 10.00, on the subject of the work of the Department: parliamentary control, discussion of No. 3/3/19-9-2018 of the New Democracy Members' topical question to the Minister for Administrative Reform, on the subject: “The Government is trying to complete the party-grouping of public administration.”
