ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the supplementary agenda of LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Provisions for the completion of the Agreement on Financial Objectives and Structural Reforms - Medium-term Financial Strategy 2019-2022 and other provisions’, with speakers such as the series of yesterday. The first speaker for today is Mr Charalambos Athanasios from New Democracy. I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to respect the time limits, because no later than 15.00 hours, no later than 15.30 seconds, we should have finished the vote, as you know. Here, Mr Athanasios, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. We are here today as witnesses to another stage of a series of unfortunate choices by the government. Her choices led us to a further unnecessarily unnecessarily memorable memorandum. It has led us to tough commitments that go beyond the government's term of office. It has led us to a deterioration in all the economic sizes of our economy. Finally, it has led us to a transformation of a budget deficit into a deficit that is both budgetary and banking. And don't forget, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANEL, that you caused the capital controls and you are trying to lift their consequences. As a result of all this, it is also the bill that we are now called upon to vote on, a bill which is truly disastrous for the Greek company, for the Greek citizen. But I will not go into details. This has been demonstrated by our rapporteur and other competent colleagues. I shall, however, refer to the impact this bill will have and the arrangements that will be taken for our islands and especially the eastern Aegean, which are plagued by uncontrolled immigration. In a few days, as you know, from 1-7-2018, the extension of the mandate of reduced rates of VAT to the Aegean islands, which have been affected by migratory and economic governance over the years and which you have actually left to the mercy of God. All you know to do is, and indeed, with great success, organise events, list measures, present things quite different from what they are, but society itself is suffering and, unfortunately, cannot react. Ladies and gentlemen, we can now prove to these heroic fellow citizens that we are aware of how much they suffer and how dramatically their lives have changed, as a minimum sign of humanity and solidarity. So, as we now ask, Minister, you have an amendment to extend for another year the reduced VAT rates. And all the Members, in a spirit of unity, voting for it because of the particularities that exist on our islands, not only in the general economic crisis, but also in a crisis which has deteriorated because of the migratory crisis. And since I spoke about your famous negotiating skills and the removal of our principles and values, I cannot help but mention the scepticism. First of all, it is no coincidence that the communication of the Zaev-Tsipras agreement and the vote of this bill is not a coincidence. Once again, you are trying to disorientate public opinion. Unfortunately this time, the country is being called upon to pay a huge price so that you can make your political trips. You announced to us the day before yesterday an agreement accompanied by non paper and rushed to triumph that you solved the Gordian bond in a manner that would be of interest to the country. And you immediately declared that anyone who is not in agreement with you is either a persecutor or a nationalist. And I ask directly: are we very persecuted when we demand that we be informed in time about the national issues in this House and not that we be ahead of events, following secret negotiations? Are we nationalists when we do not accept the transfer of the term 'Macedonian ethnicity', as this term, when describing the inhabitants of the neighbouring country, finds neither a historical nor a scientific basis, but does it fully maintain the totalitarian tendencies of Skopje against our country? Are we persecuted when we consider that it is not legalized to proceed to a nationally critical agreement with a government that has not even secured the consent of the party with which it stands? Are we nationalists when we consider an agreement to be unacceptable that recognises the Macedonian language? Are we perpetrators that we believe that a party that disagrees vertically with a central government option - the ANEL party, whose own leader said that his membership of the Government guarantees that the term 'Macedonia' - should have left, instead of thinking about chairs and luxurious trips, which his residence in the government has guaranteed for his members? Was Andreas Papandreou a hindrance when he said Macedonia's name was the wrath vehicle for Skopje? Was the nationalist the nationalist Konstantinos Karamanlis when he said Macedonia was a Greek? I would also like to make it clear here that there is a great deal of misinformation from government officials. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I'll be out in a minute. To cover, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, your failures that lead to the assignment of our sovereign rights, allegedly claim that Bucharest was an agreement for a complex name for Skopje with the word "Macedonia" as a component of it. Are you not telling me: was there any agreement that was ratified by the Greek Parliament, which we do not know? Or have there just been diplomatic approaches to the matter? The concept and essence of diplomacy from ancient times, from the time of the great colonies, the Peloponnese War and the Persian Wars, to the diplomatic points and positions of the famous William Beat, but also until today - you see recently the discussions of the United States and North Korea - are the same. Diplomas discuss, exchange views, explore intentions, pretend, sometimes pretend, press, retreat, bluff, become hidden and rarely say 'no'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u3	Mr. Athanasios, please. You've already spoken six minutes, a minute extra. We have to keep up with the times. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u4	I shall conclude, Mr President. It is known that 'yes' only says so by the signature of the diplomat. But what signature? Signature of his mandate. And he in the republics is the parliaments. So no one committed themselves to Bucharest, neither the then government nor the later. Much more, this House does not commit itself. And we are not allowed to talk about commitments. I, as a parliamentarian, but I imagine you all do not feel committed. We will be bound by our vote when the agreement comes to this House. Then and only then will we consider our historical responsibility towards the country and not why others might have committed us. And, anyway...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u5	Mr. Athanasios, please. Thank you very much. It's seven minutes. Let's move on to the next speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u6	Make a referendum for the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u7	We have dozens of speakers. We've got to get this over with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u8	Secondly and I'm done, Mr. President. I will end by repeating the position recently said by Antonis Samaras, which is summarised in a proposal and concerns what we are thinking about both the draft law and the Skopje. He said: Perhaps the SYRIZA - ANEL have intercepted the Greek people's vote with their lies, but we will not agree to steal our soul as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u9	I would ask the next speaker from New Democracy, Mr Spyridon - Adoni Georgiadis to speak for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I have received the floor in this bill to focus on a number of very specific issues, which I would very much like, since the Minister of Finance is present, to give a clear answer. Article 109 You say it's not a confiscation, it's a guarantee of 25 billion per annum, it's not the property, it's the income that's going to come from and everything else. Minister, you were a MP in the previous House, when there were domestic battles and terrible charges and threats of special courts to Mr Evangelos Venizelos primarily, not from you personally, but from the party you represent, yes, from the party with which you are confronted even more, about the so-called English law in the PSI. I remind you, Mr. Mada, in Greece for the English law of the PSI. Traitors were bringing us up, traitors were putting us down. And on that day that was voted, half of Athens was burned. It is still burnt to "ATTICN". Today, Minister for Finance, not only do you have English law on the loan contract, which you have signed and passed it as if nothing had happened, but you are also taking a step further. Provide up to 25 billion guarantee from the surplus fund to the lenders for the loan you have received. Do you feel, Mr. Chakalote, the need as a representative of SYRIZA to stand up in this House and ask for an apology for those who aroused you? And because you said you didn't do it personally, yes, you didn't do it here, but you were in the square table of the indignant, too. And at the table of the square of the indignant, Mr. Chakalote, where you were, behind you had a banner that said "I don't owe, I don't pay" in the photo. So, for the 'I do not owe, I do not pay', with which you have made a political career, and now you are elected Member of Parliament and Minister of Finance, do you feel the need, Minister, to get up and say before the history and the Greek people: 'I apologise to those I blamed and apologise to those who have unfaithfully fooled me'? That would be a brave political act. I don't expect you to do it, because unfortunately you are. But now I'm going to the second one with this bill, which is even more interesting. Tolls, Mr. Manda... - don't move your head at all - because for the tolls in that country, there have been crimes. Mr. Tsipras went and he lifted the bars himself with your "publisher" Mr. Vaxevani. Have you seen the video, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, with Mr Vaxebanes upping the bars and around it are all SYRIZA flagged "I don't pay" flags? And I ask, guys, now: all those of the 'I'm not paying' movement, which some of them became ministers, because you have a minister from the 'I'm not paying', they have the need to say: 'Hey, guys, okay, when the tolls are Venizelos and Samaras, they are bad tolls. When tolls are doubled on Kammen and Tsipras, these are good tolls, they are with vitamin C, they do good to health. When they pass you through the bars, they spray you with vitamin!”. Do you have the need, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, Mr. Manda, to stand up and talk to those who were saying to raise the bars and not to pay the tolls, now that by voting in a few hours you will double the tolls? I have to tell you that at Egnatia Street from 3 minutes a kilometre now it's going to be 6 minutes a kilometre and of course in total you will triple the tolls of the country. Do you need, gentlemen of the "I don't pay" to get up and explain to the Greek people why, with your vote, you triple tolls? Third, pensions. We've all witnessed the last days of an unreasonable stimulus. Mr Katrugalos, in a debate with Mr Kikilia, said that if there is one within the memorandum, today, the word 'cut-off' will resign. Now listen to the lie: of course there is no word 'cut-off'! But, Minister of Finance, is it or is it not what you vote on in the medium term, to which the reduction in the rate of pension expenditure is calculated as a percentage of the budget and of GDP? Mr Petersburg, do you have the courage to explain to your Members the reduction you have put into the medium term and who may not understand the figures well, on the basis of what they say on the channels, such as Mrs Karakosta, Mrs Aylonitos, and I do not remember the name of the other Member? You have the courage to tell them "children to get together in the medium term, which you are now voting on, and these figures that are below, are the reduction of pensions from 1 January 2019 and you are voting again today. So don't go out on the channels to say "we'll see if they'll be implemented and they might not be implemented", because today you're voting again. Do me a favor, Mr. Petropoulou, take a phone call from Mr. Katrugalo and explain it to him, so that man doesn't be exposed and Kikilias makes him a fool! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I am close and I am pleased that Mrs Papagas is here, but I am particularly pleased that Mr Baltas is here, who presented a new book a week ago - good luck and well-trained, Minister - 'The names of Communism'. So listen, Mr Balta, for the names of Communism. I want to ask you one question, and I'm closing. You, a so fierce communist, how do you feel now that your Chief, Mr. Tsipras...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u11	No relationship has... (It hasn't been heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u12	According to the communist, Mr Katsotis. I won't get inside of you. The man wrote a book and praised communism.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u13	It's not internal. We don't have anything to do with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u14	How do you feel, Mr Balta, then, a communist, who your Prime Minister is struggling to make an agreement with Skopje, with the sole aim of joining the Skopje into the Atlantic Alliance? And I ask you for this reason: You are in a party, SYRIZA - and you are well told by the other opportunists - where your decision - I have taken it and read it to laugh, I show it to my children to laugh when we are sad - says that NATO must be dissolved, because they have gone away - it says - the reasons for its creation. That's what SYRIZA's decision, Mr. Papadopoulos. Now I want you to explain this: Since the Atlantic Alliance has to be dissolved, why is it so important that Skopje join the Natali Alliance and it is so important that the Prime Minister takes this decision, in contrast to the feelings of the Greek people?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u15	Mr. Georgiadis, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u16	I'm saying this so everyone can figure out how huge political fraud you are. You don't believe anything at all. To close, I just want to thank you for one thing. I'm with the Atlantic Alliance. I've always been, I've never hidden it. The 'first time left' government, ladies and gentlemen, should have come to us to congratulate the Secretary-General of the Atlantic Alliance. Until the Left came to power, we did not have the pleasure of the Atlantic Alliance congratulating the Greek Prime Minister. You have done so, the first time on the left, that you have become the fierceest naval and fierceest "atlantic" than the largest pro-American in this country! Congratulations, gentlemen of the Left, but the Greek people will soon give you their answer and will be fierce about the insult in their historical memory. Be well!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr. Georgiadis. I would be very grateful if we could keep up with the time. The next speaker is Mr. Ioannis Andrianos from New Democracy for five minutes and will be followed by Mr. Vassilis Kikilis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, once again regularity for the government is its primary concern. To mitigate, ladies and gentlemen, the reactions in society to the new unfavourable and unjust measures you have imposed and enforced with this bill, you have brought it the day after the announcement of the results of your poor negotiation with our northern neighbours. And to mitigate the reactions to the results of this poor negotiation, you combine their announcement with the vote by the governmental majority of these new unjust and unjust measures. In other words, you have two very negative results of your policy on national issues and on the economy and you decide to combine them in time, in order to limit your political losses. You will not, however, succeed, because these damages are great, they are extensive and concern issues that are at the core of the sensitivities of the Greeks and the problems faced by the Greek families. As far as the nomination for FYROM is concerned, it is clear that you have no legitimacy when you cannot even guarantee the support of the government majority, since there is a differentiation of your government partner. Apart from the major institutional issue, however, there is also the question of content. You accepted a so-called Macedonian language and supposedly Macedonian ethnicity within the framework of an agreement, with which you are actually splitting Greeks. Our answer to all of this, which has been given in the clearest way by Kyriakos Mitsotakis and is not mistaken, is not to sign this bad agreement before he comes to Parliament. We therefore call on you not to turn the Skopje problem into Greece's problem. As far as the plan that you are bringing about the closure of the third and unnecessarily inappropriate memorandum, which you charged with your sole responsibility on the backs of the Greeks and Greeks, is clearly the sealing of the political fraud involving clean exit. You have voted for additional measures after the end of the programme, you have committed yourself to high surpluses for many years, you have committed the public property for ninety years in the superstition under foreign administration, when the loan is for thirty-three years. Now what are you doing? Cut pensions once again, Mr. and Mr. Subsidiary, increase the insurance contributions of free professionals and farmers, further cut the tax-free rate by 35% from 2020, and the Minister who promised that he would resign if that were the case, remains in his place. Not only do you keep the ENPIA, a law that the current Prime Minister was electorally saying is so unfair that it is not corrected but is abolished, but you are also increasing the burden on people's districts and low incomes by increasing the objective values. Pensioners will lose from one to three pensions, workers will lose one wage and the total account is EUR 14.5 billion. All of these measures are taken without any consideration, without any provision for financing, without a safety net, when developments in Europe are reintroducing to become unforeseen. You are voting today on a fourth memorandum, the first to come without consideration for the country. After so many years of crisis, after so many heavy sacrifices by Greeks and Greeks, after so many padlocks, after so many young people left abroad to seek better fate, you continue to condemn the economy to underdevelopment and society to impoverishment. Ladies and gentlemen, while you continue to apply this completely irrational policy, the only thing is that neither the economy nor society can expect better. It is clear to you that you believe that taxation today is not too high. You obviously want it higher. You clearly admit that on the basis of your ideology you do not believe that to distribute wealth must first be produced. Obviously your goal is to equalise impoverishment, except for your few party favoured. You have clearly demonstrated - and you show it every day that even on sensitive national issues - that, in order to be in power, you are prepared to sacrifice every concept of national and collective interest. We're on the other side. We are the power of national responsibility and sincereness, the force that firmly promotes the national and collective interest in any other targeting, even when it has temporary electoral costs, the power that trusts the creative forces of the Greeks and knows that any optimistic thinking about the future passes through their liberation and encouragement, the force that they know, can and wants to effectively address the huge problem of unemployment with productive, normal and well-paid jobs, primarily in the private sector. We are - and this is our biggest and most important difference with you - the political force that unites and does not divide the Greeks, and soon the citizens will call again on us to correct the catastrophic effects of your policies, to give the country and people prospects again. Not only are we voting against the plan, but we are also ready to implement exactly the opposite policies, the policies that the country needs and which the citizens need to get away from at last from the vicious cycle of stagnation and disrepute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u19	Thank you very much for keeping time, Mr Adriane. Mr. Vassilias from New Democracy has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u20	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that much has been said about the medium term and I did not intend to expand. It is only five minutes' opportunity for each Member to speak. The national issue about the scepticism is what I would like to do today, but - well or badly - the Vice-President of the New Democracy Mr.Adonis Georgiadis stirred me with Mr. Katrugalos. Mr. Katrugalos, late left, former communist, supposedly, in his costumes and posts, came to the Greek Parliament through the square - above or below - to break pensions. She forgets fast, because she thought she was going to change Department and go to the State Department. I am also in favour of the last ten days between Peru, Bolivia, Argentina and other Latin countries, promoting the trade relations that the Greek Government of SYRIZA - ANEL will create with these countries. "My same Pantelaki, the same My Fully." No one's learning. He forgot that in the medium term there are the articles on page 119. I warned him by television that he and others would not go on with the story of the communication womb, the lie to the Greek society that they would not cut pensions. So Mr. Georgiadis came and reminded him. So, Minister, I ask you again. Is there, or is there, on page 119 of the medium-term, the reduction of pensions based on the amounts of main, subsidiary, personal differences, public and private pensions? Yes or no? You're cutting off from 1-1-2019 to retired people, no matter how much they get in their pensions? Is there someone from the government who has political outrage and courage, take responsibility and look at the thousands of pensioners in the eyes and tell them that you're cutting off pensions again that you're signing it here again and you're voting for it again? I think that the political manhood you were proclaiming in an election, when you were indignant and saying other things, should have a natural follow-up, because during the period the value is determined. And if anyone is alienating and altering his personality and his character, depending on which chair he sits - if she is a smoker or a plastic and is at the cafe where he ideologically tried to dominate for years, and changes when it's soft, red, purple and goes with government posts, - then forgive me very clearly and sooner or later, the time of the popular verdict comes and we will all be judged for that. I close the issue of the medium-term and the 5.1 billion measures you bring to Greek society. I'm going to Skopje's national theme. Ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA's colleagues have been election-on-electioning for years and have been talking about the "Democratic Republic of Macedonia". Let's not make fun of each other. Half of you believe that the neighbouring state should be called the "Macedonia Republic". But if you don't have the courage and the freeness to say it again.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u21	That's a great imagination, Mr. Comrade!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u22	Watch out. Don't insult your Minister. Mr Colleague, do not interrupt me and insult your Minister who recently said so. For the rest, it's important that Mr. Alexis Tsipras makes the situation politically. What did he say? "I'll answer to history." The Prime Minister of the country in the democratic state in which we live has decided that he will not account for the Greek people, like all other common mortals, that he does not account for the Greek Parliament as customary and must, that he does not have constitutional obligations, that he does not have responsibilities stemming from the Constitution, that he is obviously from another made by all of us other common mortals and that history will judge him. Today's signature - let us not be fooled - whatever happens in the negotiations, commits this country and creates a fait accompli. The signature of his own and the signature of the Skopje Prime Minister whose agreement creates a fait accompli of national interest. If you are talking about 1977 and what may or may not be said by a professor - he has come out and disproved you by Mr Babiniotis - imagine what is accomplished by the signatures of two prime ministers, for an agreement that the vast majority of the Greek people do not agree with. Obviously, it does not agree much with the Greek Parliament. We'll find out some patience. For this agreement, the Prime Minister of the country, confronted with history, is walking on the road with the laurels and with the 'bravo' of whom? NATO's bad lies. Let's talk about your ideology, about what you're saying, unless something has changed lately. It has probably not changed, ladies and gentlemen. NATO's "bravo" are getting them. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, something. Macedonian language? Macedonian ID? Northern Macedonia where will its inhabitants be called Macedonians? North Macedonia, which will obviously de facto consider it an alperatorial country and therefore the southern Macedonia you leave geographically for Greece, will be reliable? Do you pass the whole of Greek society, to do what you believe is needed to keep you a little further in your chairs, with secret diplomacy and exchanges that will soon be revealed, why does everything come to the light of history? We have also heard the Foreign Minister, Mr Kotzia, say that you will resolve the other issues in the summer before going on a vacation. We are also seeing your partner and your partner, Mr Kammenos, being in Paris, in a weapons report, once again, and considering that, on the basis of your programme statements, he does not have the responsibility - like the entire government - for an agreement that you are getting, even if he does not vote on it. You won't be judged by history. Before history, the Greek people will judge you and their judgment will be strict, hard and coming. You will have no excuse but to say and imply that you did not know why, unfortunately, you are shareholders in what you are setting up. You all know that and you'll account for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr. Kikilia. We will give the floor to a speaker who has been in order since yesterday, Mr Tasoula. Then Mr. Vardakis will be followed by SYRIZA. Mr. Tasula, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, the timing of the debate on the medium term and the evolution of the sceptic issue for many may be accidental, may be a subjection to conspiracy theories of covering the financial impact of the medium term. But, personally, I think it is a successive demonstration of the heavy costs that our country pays from the current government, a cost which reaches its peak in economic terms and, unfortunately, in its peak and the national one, which one would have expected to have been prevented. We are currently monitoring the culmination of the honour of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL in the economic and national spheres. I'm explaining. The medium term is the executive arm of the supplementary memorandum. The fact that every pensioner from 1-1-2019 will lose one to three pensions and every low wage will lose one month from the combination of the reduction in pensions and the fall in tax, is the climax of his cost that you are running the country. In the Law of Ioannina, the tolls - as a result of the SYRIZA's additional memorandum and mockery that, in 2014, stated that they would quickly abolish the tolls - are formed in Malakasi from EUR 2,1 from EUR 2,1, in Derochori from EUR 1,2 and in Tyria at EUR 3,4 from EUR 2,1. This is an increase of 70% in only one county, where SYRIZA said in an election he would abolish it. My financial cost reminds me of the opinion of Ziskar D'Estain, who wrote a great book after Miteran's victory and wrote in this book entitled 'Two French in three', Mr. Colleague Florini, who is following me as a persuasive one: 'Where the persuasion, persuasiveness fails, the experience comes as a comfort to play the role of persuasion'. Today the Greek people experience the experience, which replaces the lost persuasiveness of the 2015 elections and you have succeeded this people, who with anger and abundant and not contempt and appreciated you have brought you to power, to feel in the place of anger, or melancholy, or apathy, or dismissal. On the national issue we have the following problem: You have dealt with the "Macedonian", the issue of scoping and you are being congratulated today by NATO Secretary-General, who refuses to take a stand on the Turkish challenges by American senators from all. You have congratulated the Left Government! And I remind the left-wing government of the heroic, that on August 18, 1950, the American factor in Greece forced the Prime Minister of Plastira to resign because he demanded the government of Belgrade and the federal state of Skopje to make a statement that he did not recognise a "Macedonian minority" in Greece. The Americans in 1950 were throwing governments when you ruined their grace. The Americans and NATO are today congratulating SYRIZA for making the scrolls to them. To understand what agreement you concluded yesterday, the government representative of Skopje said that "with this agreement you recognise our right to be called "Macedonians" and to maintain the "Macedonian identity" and the "Macedonian language". Macedonism is the vehicle, not just of aluterism but of expansionism. Keep this vehicle fully alive with the agreement and all your powers to press Skopje into the knowledge of God, all the possibilities you give them earlier and all the Skopje obligations you leave them with a promise for the future, thinking the UN or the Hague Court will impose on Skopje theocraticity. In 1950 Van Fleet shot the Plaster. In 2018 or 2019, the Greek people will throw those who today receive congratulations from NATO Secretary-General.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u25	Thank you very much Mr Tassoula and for the time being.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u26	Mr President, may I have the floor for thirty seconds?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u27	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u28	Mr Tasouula, because you reiterated what Mr Georgiadis said about the congratulations on NATO, I would just like to say to you one sentence. Julia Roberts can fall in love with her and Brad Pete and Quassimod. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u29	Thank you very much. I very much ask Mr Vardakis, my colleague from SYRIZA, to climb the Step. The Communist Party of Greece will be followed by Mrs Papapeiga and then by Mr Dimas from New Democracy. Mr. Vardakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. "Retired people will lose pensions, the employees will lose their wages." But you did not tell us, gentlemen, what law we, to date three years ago, have cut pensions. You have the time by noon to tell us and find us the law with which we cut pensions. For pensions, pension cuts, you are not in a hurry, because you will be exposed, ladies and gentlemen, once again. Mr President, this is really worthy of wonder. I do not know whether what the New Democracy colleagues say believes is true, because if you put your hands up. One thing is certain. These behaviors, this arrogance, this lie, this exaggerated ego has created, has shaped the image of the depreciation of the political system for several years. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try, because time is limited, with two words, with three pages to compare, because we hear these days, we hear numbers, but we do not draw any conclusions. Let me say two three things that have happened, not that there will be 29% unemployment, one and a half million unemployed, 30% uninsured black work, 25% lost GDP, two and a half million fellow citizens without medical care, three hundred thousand young scientists, empty funds. Mr Brutsis presented us here yesterday with reports and studies on sustainability. What sustainability studies? With empty funds? With 700 million deficits in the FBI? And I keep going. Increases in PPC tariffs, over ten increases, 45% - and here I will stand a little - pension cuts and wage cuts. In 2010 you cut benefits and gifts. In 2011 you imposed a special contribution from 6% to 10%. In 2011, with retroactive implementation, you imposed a special solidarity levy on pensioners. In 2011 you imposed new reductions on subsidiary. In 2011 you made cuts in the main pensions, in 2012 you made new reductions in main and subsidiary and abolished allowances and gifts to subsidiary, an account of 45 billion who left the pensioners' pockets. And you have the nerve today to talk about pension cuts? Those are the real numbers. I will not talk about corruption, the complexity, the lawlessness, the immunity that was your main axes to bankrupt this country. These four pages contain, in fact, the ashes and abominations you left and have the nerve from this Step, to try to convince the Greek people that in three years the SYRIZA government has been bankrupt the country. Now see what, as you say, the incompetent government is the most incompetent government and the fourth Memorandum of Tsipras. We have already legislated for electronic payment in the private sector, for the electronic payment of overtime, in fact in the practices of employers, having created new full-time jobs. Here we have a decline in unemployment at 21.7%, at 19.9% we count in 2018 and at 14.3% in 2022, when everyone said that in order to reduce unemployment one unit took five years. April was the best month - since we have had positive balance figures - with 100 000 new jobs. This record was broken in May by nine thousand new jobs, and since the beginning of the year we have the best five months with two hundred and sixty-five thousand new jobs. This comes as a follow-up to the ninety-three thousand jobs created in 2015-2017, of which - and here is our difference - 69% is full-time when for you the rule was two-hour, three-hour, four-hour rule. A budget for social welfare expenditure of 1.57 billion, more than twice the previous year, low social tariffs with energy discounts and for those passing on to the fines, I would like to remind you of the rent subsidy, the increase in beneficiaries for free access to nurseries with sixty thousand children at nurseries, CRLs, school meals. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] By regulating the loans of the OBD eighty thousand borrowers, they finally repay their loans on extremely favourable terms even by deletion of capital. The same applies to farmers and farmers. You remember the grotesques of the former Agricultural Bank, the so-called red loans. They are regulated by farmers and all increases even capital are deleted in some cases. Fifteen years you've fooled them and done nothing. Ladies and gentlemen, it was 2012 when you made a maximum effort to effectively abolish the institution of arbitration, as by a cabinet act the possibility of unilateral recourse was abolished. Even when these provisions were judged by the S.H.E. Unconstitutional, you have made sure that the content of administrative decisions is limited, reducing the possibility of making decisions in favour of workers. That was your support for the workers. We fought today. We have not won them all, but we are trying, we are fighting for industrial relations, we are strengthening the mediation process while maintaining the right to unilateral recourse to arbitration. Ladies and gentlemen, the reintroduction of collective bargaining, the expansion of collective agreements and the strengthening of the institution of mediation have been a forefront of the aims of the current government, which has, in fact, given great struggles and won another battle at work. It is a victory that belongs to the workers whose negotiating position, after eight years of deterioration, is strongly asserted. I wanted to hear Mr. Mitsotakis. Does he insist on SYRIZA's ideology of collective bargaining? That's what he told us three or four months ago. Now he loved the workers whom he had fired.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u31	Mr. Bardakis, please close. You've been talking for seven and a half minutes already.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u32	After all, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that in the development plan submitted by the government, labour issues and the creation of better employment prospects are being given importance. The working environment, after the memoranda period, is the core of the project, opening up the path of raising the minimum wage, which in practice - you have forgotten this - cabinet in 2012 decreased. You forget that, too. Just this development plan and the three-year real, systematic, substantial effort of the government to get the country out of the crisis and put it into a development path through a mixture of social policy are a sound answer that Greece is overcoming the crisis, the Greek economy is entering a path of productive reconstruction. Of course, no one hides from the fact that we have time in front of us to restore and improve a lot of what you have been rejecting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u33	Mr. Vardakis, I'm going to have to stop you. You speak eight and a half minutes and go to nine.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u34	Mr. Georgiadis spoke eight minutes, Mr. President. I'll be done. I wanted to know what Mr Stendeno meant the other day, saying: 'Now, unbalanced policies have been started and corrected.' Sedeno said so, we didn't say so. Ladies and gentlemen, we did not, although we tried to break the memorials, but we are the ones who took the country out of the memorials, your disastrous memorials, and that is why we will be judged, when the time comes, by the Greek people. Thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u35	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u36	Mr President, if every speaker speaks more, some Members will not speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u37	I'm trying to help them, Mr. Manier. You're right. Mrs Pappigiga has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u38	It's okay, we got benefits. Let's get some courage.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u39	We don't need courage.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u40	When the Greek Parliament was passed in 1992 by the New Democracy, the PASOK, the Coalition, etc. the Maastricht Treaty, when it was later passed - not in the House, this did not come to the House but it was adopted - the new NATO structure, according to which NATO could do military operations without the Security Council's approval and indeed do internal interventions and the Member States, if there were popular uprisings, if the stability of the political system was threatened, then we as a party said that there are four, five, six, but the strategies are two. Then, indeed, for a large part of the people and possibly for some Members it was not very obvious. You sent us in, they made us a joke. They even told us that we did not see the differences between the parties. Clearly we've seen them and seen them. We're talking about the strategy. And the strategy is the capitalist development path, it is the position towards the European Union and NATO. In order not to add any more, I say these three. Differences exist. And I won't blow up the differences by saying they're competitions for the chair, as you usually say among yourselves. There are differences and competitions that exist, which the capitalist system itself has caused, especially in the past twenty years, with its complexity, with its contradictions and the contradictions and difficulties it has caused and the perception of manipulation, management, etc. The substance doesn't change. Here there are strong differences between the capitalist states themselves. These parties are also going through. The strategy is the same. And can I tell you something? If one reads the National Development Plan of the New Democracy, the Change Movement, the SYRIZA, the backbone is completely the same. The sauce's different. Another has red sauce, another has white, another has mayonnaise. However, the backbone is the same and it couldn't have been different. And these differences between you and which, in some cases, also take on great versatile acidity are, until now and in the medium term, a saving for the system. You also serve with your differences in the system. I will bring in new examples. In 2012 the first cracks in the civil system are presented to form a government majority, a stable government. And immediately the problem was solved with the New Democracy, the PASOK and the Anti-Dogmatic Renewal Left. There were other forms of governance with technocratic ministers. In 2015, when it becomes apparent by the Greek Industrial Association and by specific branches of industry - I do not now want to mention them - the European Union's staff - already SYRIZA is a Dedicated Opposition and is an emerging political force, of course the people vote, I do not discuss it, the basis was the election rise of SYRIZA - they say: "Thousands of times SYRIZA in the government rather than in the Remote Opposition". And then while the New Democracy and its Prime Minister in particular, Mr Samaras, asked for a few small concessions so that they would not pass on to a larger voter, they did not give them to him, because elections would be held anyway. Don't blame SYRIZA for provoking elections. Instead of becoming January, they would be March. And then, in January 2015, it became also paradoxical - not for us - the SYRIZA Government - ANDEL and the rescue of the system. Of course, when the political system is saved, you appear to be saving the people. When you say about saving Greece, you mean not to shake the participation of Greece, namely the class interests of the bourgeoisie, in the context of the European Union and NATO. Mr. Georgiadis said that Mr. Tsipras was congratulated by NATO Secretary-General. Oh, well! It's way down the line. They've taken congratulations, what can I remind you of? Should I remind Berlingwer, D'Alma, Gorbachev, Yeltsin, Karijo, Marce? They've taken thousands of congratulations. And don't be angry, gentlemen of the New Democracy with SYRIZA. You're mad now that it's a government and you've become a Civic Opposition. How many years have you been fond of him and how many years have you been teaching us about the refreshing, antidogmatic Left? The New Democracy continues its illiterate anti-communism. Anti-Communism, of course, is inherent to the New Democracy. I say he is illiterate, because when you say Marxists and communists, SYRIZA executives show not only anti-communists but also illiterate. If you want to fight your class opponent, study him. We spend hours studying what NATO says, what the OECD says, what the International Monetary Fund says. We're about to read more of this despite our own books, because you need to know what the other guy says to try to fight him. You're completely illiterate, forgive me, of course, anti-communists before everything. Look, the cartoonists and the cartoon of Marxism have begun since the beginning of the 20th century. Except that the first cartoonists of Marxism were genuine, they were pioneers of the cartoon of Marxism and - I will tell you and don't get angry - they were a higher mental level than modern cartoonists of Marxism, who know nothing but a copy. And by the way, Mr. Tsipras said yesterday on TV that we deviate from Lenin's position on self-determination. I'm not going to answer that, because even the word self-determination was not said by Lenin, but I'm not going to answer it, especially in this area, it's not worth it. All I thought at that time was spontaneously 'good, don't you keep this man from saying inconveniences'? He's a prime minister, he can say a lot of arguments about the party's position. It's not hard to make any arguments when you're against it, but don't even say inconveniences and in a perverted style. Yes, he says, he studied them when he was seventeen. He tossed Lenin at his seventeenth. I don't know if there's any member of the party, the KKE, who's old enough to talk like a disguised Marxist and a Leninist. Whoever does this can only be ridiculous. Yesterday from all the interview with the Prime Minister, what shocked me - not for the first time, but you know, it's also the moment you hear something - it said that "by means of this agreement that we've closed" or we'll officially close "Greek leadership in the Balkans"". I do not know what you call this as a country - a member of NATO, as a country - member of the European Union, but this is 100% nationalist cosmopolitanism. There is nationalist isolation and nationalist cosmopolitanism. Really, the geostrategic upgrade of Greece and we want it, but do you know what we want? Greece is an adversary in NATO and the European Union. And you are dangerous - not more than New Democracy and other parties - because you are seen as Marxists, Communists and left-wingers and so you are trapped much more of the people while you are trapped. What is this upgrade that Greece has made over your days and previous governments and over your days as a Dedicated Opposition? You are not a guiding force. Do you support the Syrian war, where the plans are for Syrian haircuts? Yeah. And you support him, not only ideologically and politically, but you support him on bases. Did you support Iraq's war on haircuts? It doesn't matter if they didn't move on, because imperialism can't solve everything. Did you broach when the United States progressed to an independent Kurdish state, which meant a border change in at least three countries in the region, Turkey, Iraq, Syria and perhaps a place further? You supported them. That kind of upgrade you want? We're giving it to you. That's what you're doing. So why not congratulate you? Why shouldn't they wish that you'd be a government again? If you can find them with New Democracy and with the Change Movement, even better. Zafe's doing this now to FYROM. In order to deal with nationalist and Soviet enclaves, he tells them the following thing: 'Do you want to join the European Union and NATO in order to rain money'? That's how he handles it. And can I tell you something? My own prediction is that I should not commit the party. The referendum will win. It's the imperialist peace with the gun on the head. He's gonna win it. And nationalism will turn into world civilization too easily. He'll take money. That's how it's going to go. He won't say what he's saying. Here, in Greece, this project is, for Greece to contribute to the integration of Macedonia into NATO, to escape Turkey's risk, he says. Why are we in danger from Turkey? I don't understand. Isn't it a NATO member country? Will it save us through the accession of FYROM? To conclude, we do not question what all the parties are saying, that we are not going to give a single point from our borders. There is no bourgeois party, bourgeois and bourgeois government, which part of the market, in the Aegean Sea, which has tourism and large hotels, to give it to someone else. Unless he loses it with war, which we won't let that happen, of course. But, gentlemen, you are undermining the territorial integrity of other countries. I said before about Syria, Iraq, not to mention more. So patriotism is not about me and my borders, it also concerns respect for the country and territorial integrity and other peoples. On this issue you are, of course, a power - secondary, I am not saying that you are the protagonist - but in any case, you are a force that you have already threatened the territorial integrity and borders of other peoples. And we say so, that we are neither with the regime of Saddam Hussein nor with Gaddafi nor with Milosevic's policy supporters. But you have taken part, one way or another, in this whole campaign, which can lead, not only to a border change, but to a border change, through involvement and Greece in an even more dangerous war.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Pappiga. The Parliamentary Representative from the Golden Dawn, Ilias Panagiotaros, will now be given the floor. Please, because I see dissatisfaction by colleagues, because others are taking their turns, because the parliamentary representative has to be intervened, to keep track of the times. Mr. Panayotus, I inform you that you have half the time, because your Chief has spoken yesterday. Mr. Jellonis, Mr. Dimas, and then the parliamentary representative from SYRIZA, Mr. Mandas, will be followed. Here, you have the floor, Mr. Panayotare.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. "Dobro jutro", which would also be said by various philosophers, who are the dream of listening to Slavica and within the Greek Ethiopia, on the basis of this agreement. After the eight-year continuous economic hammering, at the expense of the Greek people, its decimation, which crushed morally, socially, physically, familyly, in all areas of Greeks, the time has come for the attack on national issues, since Greek citizens are weak in this legacy, which has found them. And the beginning is with Skopje, on the issue of the name of this neighbouring country's format. We are listening to the various jokes about serious negotiation, negotiation, which reminds us of an old joke - the old ones will remember - where Nicholas Exarchides was, who had a problem with his name, they were all mocking him, and he went to the diary to change his name. When he tried to change it and the clerk laughed. After all it says to him: 'How do you want to be called?' And she answers: "Demetrius Exarchides". This is how you deal with the negotiation, mock the world and let on the substance the name "Macedonia" take it from our neighbours and with everything that happens to take advantage of us. This is, of course, the pitiful side of this serious issue, because you, too, are faithful to your actions, in which unwilling, internationalist, communist, sick ideas of the past, continue faithfully and make the dreams of all those gangbangers - cockroaches who wanted and worked in independent Macedonia. He says the spiritual leader of the Left - so you said so far - that this agreement is an act of national modesty, betrayal and those who processed it and signed it or sign it are traitors. He saw Mikis Theodorakis just the day before - I present it for the Minutes - from his page. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I do not know if you should go through the Ethics Committee and Mr.Theodorakis, but if you do not like Mr. Theodorakis - because you said that he grew up too much and didn't say it well - to remind you what your co-government, Mr. Kammenos, said - I read from the site "Olympia" - on December 14, 2014, in response to Panagiotis Metropolitan Mr.Adimos. "In the face of God and people, therefore, I answer to the Panagiotis that the Independent Greeks will be the guarantee that no Samaras, no Venizelos, but also no Tsipras will negotiate the name of Macedonia. Macedonia is Greek and we do not accept a geographical definition. The Independent Greeks are associated with the view of the Panagiotou. It is now clear that the Greek people demand elections. They cannot hand over the name of Macedonia, giving an extension of life to a government that has given an open mandate to Mr Nimic to name Skopje "North Macedonia". And the rest, the ones known for resignation and the other ones, I'm tucked away. I put this in the Minutes too, for those who want to look for it. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We are coming to this unacceptable agreement, which is - I repeat - the dream of every Skopje alphabetical, with the sole exception that the 'Severna' has entered in front of Macedonia, as if it were'taverna', but which is not mentioned anywhere, because it will be translated as 'North Macedonia' into some papers and most of it will be 'Macedonia'. This agreement refers constantly to the United Nations General Assembly Resolution 47/2025/8-4-1993. But in order to reach this betrayal decision at that time with FYROM, governed by the New Democracy, gentlemen of the New Democracy, there was the decision of the Lisbon European Council on 26-27 June 1992 on the recognition of Skopje by a name which does not include the name 'Macedonia'. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This was the design, to go to the United Nations Convention and as magic, that was lost, disappeared in government Mitsotakis and Minister of Foreign Affairs. Samara, and FYROM appeared, which was the ferry to get to today's disgrace. And we end up with years of concessions, seditions, in today's infamous agreement, an agreement from 'Lidl', where everyone, Slaves, Bulgarians, Albanians, Roma and others will call themselves in very small letters 'North -' and 'Macedonia', with enormous amounts. It is a disgraceful agreement, where unconditional treason - because downloading two labels from the national road and from the airport of Skopje temporarily does not say anything at all - is found in Article 1, which states that the nationality of the second part will be "Macedonian", "Macedonian citizens", "North Macedonia", blah, blah... All this, of course, will be forgotten on the day after the agreement, if it ever comes to things, and many other things that if you read them, one laughs, but also crys about what is happening in our country. In Article 2, we see the "Turkey" and the "photographic" provisions on the admission of Skopje to the European Union and NATO. It follows Article 3, which is inapplicable. Let's make a case: Let's assume that the Greeks are good children and do what Article 3 says. The Skopje, who live in the United States, Canada, Australia and elsewhere, what are they going to do? Do you think the good guys will do? You're laughed. They will now be North-Macedonians, with the bogeyman of the Greek state. In Article 6, there is a reference to various problems which will be on the table and that objections may be raised. That is to say, "Macedonia is famous," according to Article 6, "Pavlos Melas" goes. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, you will allow me to have your tolerance too. I'll use my dentistry too. Article 7, of course, is laughing. His editor, except for a minority, during Mikis Theodorakis and Panos Kammenos, is also a baby, because he thinks it's aimed at idiots. As far as Article 8 is concerned, they will also give us a hand on our history and our culture. Article 13 is the best of all. They are businessmen because, if they enter NATO and the European Union, they are a sum of around EUR 30 billion for this country. As you can see, there is a bread for various “businessmen”. It is an agreement that geopolitically only serves the interests of the United States. We will discuss this very serious issue tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. If you knew how to negotiate, you'd enforce the law. You would impose the right thing, which Thucydides says is the law of the mighty. Let's say, for the first time we have the law of the impossible, to the detriment of the mighty. I testify for the practical reasons why Zaev, the Prime Minister of Skopje, did not want either "Upper" or "New Macedonia" and says how convenient Skopje "North". I would also like to say, for the Minutes, what President Ivanov said, who wants to see the North and take everything on substance, and you are capable of that too. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Last line of defence in this disgrace, the Greek people, which shows that they resist the great syllables in Athens and Thessaloniki - in 24 cities in Greece - with the protest that will take place tomorrow morning outside the House, but also tomorrow and whenever necessary. The best solution, like today's data, is the non-solution. This form of Skopje, whatever happens will be dissolved, but you will have widely signed it, so that it will be used in the future by historians and others that Greece recognized Skopje as "Macedonia". To close, against those who are invading our Macedonia, to know that they will find us in front of them, as from 1993, from the first rally, which was on the first page of the newspaper 'Golden Dawn' - and I will put it on the front page: 'No compromise for our Macedonia'. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] They will certainly enter new Greeks, as will then, new Macedonians, who in a much more difficult environment will fight and resist our Macedonia and will respond to the descendants and spiritual children of all these all kinds of Bolsheviks who now want the same thing. They will be told, as Karaiskakis had said to the Turks, 'instead not of a molten couratch', 'God is great'. No compromise for our Macedonia! Everyone in the rally, all in the streets, all in the races! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u43	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, twenty-four students and students and two teachers from the 10th Municipal School of Vyron. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Jellus has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, while discussing the medium-term programme, which is, in fact, the fourth memorandum of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, where it now makes the Memorandum of Understanding in the country. Coincidence, random? The agreement with FYROM came on the day it entered Parliament's plenary session to discuss the medium-term. Are they small-party tactics on the government side? In fact, it is an agreement where the government went on its own, divided, without any national agreement, thereby undermining its credibility and any effectiveness it could have in such negotiations, and indeed at a time when it has been the most favourable of the past twenty-five years to have a good deal of agreement. Sadly, however, with all these manipulations, the government lowered the expectation bar and while the pressure was on the Skopje side, it managed to move it within us. So at the moment, we have a bad agreement, a bad agreement, at the expense of our country, an agreement in instalments which does not depend on our country, but above all on the actions of the neighbouring country, with many 'although', with drug-drug gray zones for Greece, an agreement involving the risk of even not being completed, as it has started. On the other hand, we are going to open the accession procedures to NATO, open the protocols for membership of the European Union and, as you can see, this agreement cannot change in some years, but it will be historic and irrevocable for what it means to our country. I would like to make it clear that one of the conditions was 'erga omnes'. And I ask the majority colleagues: is it 'erga omnes' to be called the northern Macedonian country and the people to be Macedonian citizens? Is it or is it not ethnicity at the expense of historical truth by accepting citizenship as Macedonian for the Skopje's inhabitants, by entrusting Macedonian language to this Slavic idiom? When you have defined citizenship and language, then you recognize identity, then you do ethnicity and impose the place on the whole. So you are bringing about an agreement that divides the Greek people, on your own responsibility, which humiliates our citizens, and even at a time when they are tested for their social and economic ends, and which leads the Greek people to national depression and to its evolving poverty. We have been, since the first time, seeking to provide a sustainable solution which defends historical truth with a national understanding. And here is the New Democracy, which, with its relics and changes of positions, has never sought national understanding. But since moments are historical, I cannot understand at this critical moment for the country - national critical moment - why the former Prime Minister of the country, who managed an agreement with Skopje in 2008, is not coming from the Step of the House. How long will it be? Even at these critical national times, where will the Greek people know what happened then, at that time? Through third parties? No, it has a historic national obligation to come and be placed at last. Ladies and gentlemen, on the other hand, in relation to the medium-term, I would just like to say that the biggest trick that the government is playing today is to convince the world that there is no memorandum. With the new medium-term you are voting on, you are unfortunately making the Memorandum of Understanding. What is the main objective of the medium-term, from which it appears to be a scheme? It is to have major primary surpluses for all the years to come, which are growing. Is that possible? The only country to achieve this achievement, the existence of surpluses for many years, is Norway, a oil-producing country. These, ladies and gentlemen, have been said by the Minister who is negotiating in the medium term, Mr Chakalotos, in May 2014 from this Step of Parliament, for the medium term in 2015-2019. Finally, stop mocking the Greek people when you impose 5.5 billion new cuts on pensions, wages and on the other hand, reduce taxfree, transfer all state-owned funds to the Bank of Greece and turn them into repos. Look, because you say that they can easily disburse them, I will give you an example for the Greek Agricultural Insurance Agency, the ELGA. You transfer the reserves of a self-financed agency from farmers to the Bank of Greece and when you had to pay the compensation to farmers, who wait for them and how, then, you made a decision, because you could not break the way to give 70% of the damage. As for the countermeasures, which you invoke and which are the cherry on the cake, these are retaliations against the Greek people if and if you catch the extra surpluses...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u45	Mr. Jelloney, shall we close?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u46	I'm closing, Mr. President. For tolls and tolls, the one you would not rectify, but you would have taken him out on a permanent basis now of 3.5 billion to the detriment of the Greeks' property. Ladies and gentlemen, the Change Movement is no longer defined. With an autonomous and self-sufficient strategy, we will develop our political positions towards the SYRIZA-ANEL coexistence and in the New Democracy. What we are asking for is for the good of the Republic to go to elections here and now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u47	Thank you. Mr. Christos Dimas has the floor from New Democracy for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Today's debate in Parliament, on one of the most important bills in recent years, which will affect the daily lives of all citizens, households, professionals, businessmen, has rightly been overshadowed by the debate on the name of Skopje. You will allow me, too, to make a small position on the issue of the Tsipra - Zaev agreement. This is a bad deal. In addition to the name, we deliver both the subject of ethnic and the subject of language. In return, what do we get? We get some asterisks, where once the ink has been dried out of the agreement, some doubtful future revisions of the Constitution will have been forgotten. While we are going through a period that we should all look for ways to unite as Greeks, what you are doing is to divide Greek citizens. And it has a great responsibility for that both the Prime Minister and the government. I would remind you of the secret diplomacy of recent months, where you do not inform Parliament and the Greek citizens of the development of the negotiations and of the statements made by the mobs, the far right, and even nationals. These are unacceptable and in a favoured country they would not even be tolerated. But notable is the hypocrisy of SYRIZA's government partner, the Independent Greeks, who are supposed to be against the Tsipra Zaev agreement. Clear words. If the Independent Greeks were opposed, then Prime Minister Tsipras could not negotiate on behalf of the entire Greek government the Agreement with Mr Zaev. So the question is: will the entire Ministerial Council sign the agreement? In the chapters to be opened between the two countries, will the Minister of National Defence and the Minister of Tourism, from the Independent Greeks, take part in the discussions? Will the State Secretarys of Independent Greeks take part in these discussions at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Macedonia Thrace, the Ministry of Rural Development, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport? Are they gonna be non-shareholders? What are they gonna do? The MPs of the Independent Greeks and they will be non-owned? But they will sit in ministerial and parliamentary chairs, they will say they will disagree, but they will in fact support the government. The Greek Parliament is unprecedented. But the whole behaviour of the Independent Greeks has been unprecedented in recent years. At the same time, in the most important bill of recent years, in this multi-legislative bill, the MPs of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks are voting for the multiannual financial framework, in which, among other things, is envisaged? It is expected that the main pensions will be cut from 1 January 2019. The personal difference in supplementary pensions will be cut. The insurance contributions of the professions will be further increased. The tax-free limit from 2020 will be cut by 35%. Let me remind you that the Minister for Finance, Mr Tsakalotos, said two years ago that it would not allow the tax to be reduced, otherwise it would resign. He seems to mean he will resign if only once the tax is reduced, because it is the second reduction in the tax that Mr Chakalotos brings. And I would also remind you that the high primary surpluses will be maintained by 2060. I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, how many of us are going to be in life in 2060? You have committed the country's budgetary policy with primary surpluses of 2% by 2060 and 3.5% by 2022. Now, the extent to which these cuts go hand in hand with the words of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks in recent years, but even in recent days, it is something the whole society knows about. It could be said that for SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks, these are obviously just measures and they were done. Unfortunately, in your policy over recent years, you have first poisoned the country's political life, then you have acted against the interests of the country with the supposedly cruel and proud negotiation. I would remind you that it was the time of the Prime Minister's delusion, which has led us to a third - unnecessarily - a memorandum following us for many decades yet. And besides, you were unable to lead the country to the three years of your government on a clean way out of memorials and gain the confidence of the markets. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I want thirty seconds. We in the New Democracy wanted a clean exit. Unfortunately, what you do not understand, and we have told you at the very beginning, is that with the policy of overtaxation, the only thing you have managed to do is kill the market and kill all those who wanted to attempt or invest in our country. When you've managed to get the yields of the ten-year bond to 4.6%, there's no clear way out. It's something Mr. Chakalotos has been saying lately. The Prime Minister seems to have no idea. We would like there to be a clear exit, but unfortunately, you did not understand it and it is your responsibility alone. With the government's economic planning, all you've done is to make the poorer and more. Obviously, we're voting against your bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr. Dimas. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Mandas, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u50	Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate and the anticipated approval of the plan put an end to scenarios that have not only been cultivating for months, but also systematically sought systemic cycles, overlapping economic and political interests. Today, in closing the fourth assessment, we are definitively closing the cycle of memorials that have deeply affected our country and our people, causing a disaster that the country has not seen in a time of peace. Today, we are actually opening a new cycle that we still do not know of, of course, important data, such as debt decisions, but we know clearly that the country is leaving the stiffs of ratings, pressures and bankruptcies. The country will be able to borrow from the markets to serve its financial needs. The country leaves the hard commission and recovers part of its sovereignty. That's the truth and the reality. It is also true that we are going through a time of difficulties, with open wounds, with uncertainties in the international area. We're not finishing with austerity, but we're slowly undoing it. We do not pledge public property, but the debt monster is still here and pressures us to do everything possible to make good use of the public property that will also be used to repay debt and, of course, to invest. It is true that we have new potential and hopes. We have a very concrete and clear development plan aimed at fair growth. We have excellent human resources, young people and young people who can in the new era take life in their hands, lead the country to an area of peace, democracy, social justice and emancipation. We have the wealth of our country, the natural and cultural environment, the people who are on all sides of the planet. We have, of course, new opportunities and hopes. Ladies and gentlemen, some people still want to block the course, this difficult but hopeful course. They do everything they can not to fail the government and SYRIZA, but our country and our people. Some people bet hypocritically, but unequivocally, to find ground for undermining the historic success of negotiations with our neighbouring country, which opens the way for a decent agreement, the way to cooperation and co-development. They think they can use this case as a lever to overthrow us. They don't realize that their whole attitude, petty and hypocritical, will eventually turn them boomerang. The left parentheses and budgetary suffocation of the first semester did not come out of them. They didn't get the referendum out. They didn't get the ruthless undermined by all means. Their transformations didn't come out in supposedly antimony, progressive, etc. Now they are asking for elections to cancel the closure of the rating and exit of the country from the memoranda. They say the country's not ready. They say that "you do not have the political legitimacy of allegedly committing the country and the public property." They're talking about the next catastrophe that we're bringing in, and they're resenting for the pensions and the tax-free we're going to cut off. And they are the same who led with their country's policies to bankruptcy, economic, political and moral. They are the same ones who kneeled us with monstrous cuts. They are those who said that in 2012 we would go out and drop seven and eight points out along with the International Monetary Fund forecasts. Then we were told that in 2013 and 2014 we would go back out again. However, they made false outlets on the markets, gave social dividends completely targeted before they were secured and not closed the ratings. They are themselves who very much want to return with all their armor, the client state of corruption, their interactivity and their class share in favour of the few and powerful. They are the ones who, either through the preventive line or by extending the memorials, want to destroy once and for all by government power, but also by history, the Left. They won't make it. Inside this panic can't even with elementary temperm to make a serious argument in the polynomial design. Before they said the countermeasures did not exist, there are only measures. Now they say that countermeasures are not equivalent to measures, not even budgets. I will say again, ladies and gentlemen, and I think the Minister of Finance has clearly presented what will happen in the coming years in terms of net performance of measures, countermeasures and the financial area. We will therefore have for 2019, if we take the measures against countermeasures and financial adjustment, 534 million plus, 1044 million plus in 2020, 1745 in 2021 and 3391 million plus in 2022. That is the reality and whoever really wants to bend and see the numbers and the perspective, must give an answer to that. We cannot hear all day, from morning till night, that we set a target for a surplus of 5.2 and have said thousands of times that the target is 3.5% surplus and that the rest will go for tax exemptions, social expenditure, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u51	Beforehand.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u52	Indeed, this - the Minister of Finance is right - we will legislate with the budgets in advance. They say that the pensioners will lose three pensions, one supplementary in the next two years and the employees will lose one wage. Let's assume that's how things will turn out. Question: All pensioners have a personal difference? None of those who assume that they lose income will, for example, receive a rent allowance or an allowance for the first home loan? None of them will have a child who's guaranteed and free of charge to enter a nursery? No one's gonna have a kid or a grandchild who's going to school and have a free school lunch? No one will reduce the tax rate? No one's going to happen to his family, to the wider family, anyone working? None of them will have any impact on the reduction of the tax burden by EUR 700 million in 2019? None of them will have free medical care and family doctors in their neighborhood? What do we do? You're telling us we're making a ghetto of people we're destroying them from morning to night. This argument is not fundamentally correct. Also on the multi-brand plan, to see: Is it not good that the provision on taxation of income acquired by occasional or opportunistic employees is permanent and, therefore, to these taxpayers, if they are not professionals, will they be granted a tax reduction if their actual income does not exceed EUR 6 000 and their imputed income does not exceed EUR 9 500? Is it not good to introduce the co-responsibility of tobacco companies and that these companies will be obliged to pay compensation to the Greek State, in any case that genuinely manufactured tobacco of 50 thousand pieces or more? Their responsibility, in fact, is objective, there is no negotiation on it. Is the tax incentive to work not positive, on the basis of which employers' contributions, for example pension contributions, health contributions and others to create new paid full-time jobs are deducted from gross incomes of natural persons engaged in business? Will this not give new opportunities for full-time recruitment to young people under thirty years of age, for example, to the long-term unemployed? Is it not positive that there are tax incentives for the production of audiovisual works in Greece, such as cinema, television and so on? Is it not a good thing that economic incentives are being introduced to save water and improve energy efficiency, namely the doubling of depreciation factors for investment costs related to water savings and the achievement of a higher level of energy efficiency? Is it not positive to include 2017 incomes in the extrajudicial compromise and to increase the limits, to zero the participation of 10% in generics, to include the single book price? The fact that we've completely cleared the energy scenery, overthrowing Memorandum commitments, like IPTO? And by strengthening the presence of the State, is it not positive to finance the new social invoice with 70% discount on the households in the CRL? Aren't working arrangements not positive? Is it not a good thing to reinstate collective bargaining, arbitration and mediation? Is it not good that in the medium term there is an increase in the minimum wage? Isn't that all positive? And many of these Members from all the political forces will vote for them as individual articles of the bill, because this is an opportunity. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to close with this: we are undoubtedly in a new historic phase, a new period of history, a phase that can record radically different options. It must not record national divisions. I repeat: it must not record national divisions. In this sense, I would like to remind my colleague from my home country who spoke to Mr Tassoula that when in June 1959 on the ETA Government of Constantine Karamanlis Greece signed a series of agreements with the then Federal Yugoslavia, including the Border Communications Agreement, Evangelos Averov, who is a political father of this colleague, strongly defended this agreement. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just give me one more minute, Mr President, I'll be done. Indeed, on the crucial theme of the language he said in reply to a colleague: "Mr. If you did me the honour to attend, you would see that in Macedonia the Greek is spoken and on what points a local idiom is spoken. As it cannot be said that in my own country Romanians are spoken, because gossip is spoken, which is a blending of Latin, Slavic and Turkish, and in Macedonia, where an idiom is spoken, which is irrelevant to any language of Yugoslavia. But let's assume that's not the case. In what sense would the Greek government want to say in the Yugoslav, in a language which the constitution has among the official languages, say that I want you to abolish? It is as if we were to say that her constitution must be abolished. The Liberal Party Members also know that this language was in the Constitution of Yugoslavia and when relations were restored and when the consulate was founded in Skopje, they know that the notes have three languages. What do you think should be the attitude? The logical consequence should be the interruption of diplomatic relations if a language, which has nothing to do with the idiom which is spoken in certain Macedonian villages...'. Sotiris Valenten reminds us of last Sunday's 'Spring Dawn', and they are, for example, not only for this subject, but for the spirit, the way that this great politician saw international relations. Now we have a historic opportunity, a historic opportunity. That is why, if I may, and as far as I may, I call on all the wings of Parliament's democratic arch to think with soberness, with calmness, against these options, not to cultivate the ground in which the forces of national folding, extreme right and fascism can flourish. We have a democratic patriotic debt not to allow it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. Manda. The next speaker is Mr Kumucakos from New Democracy for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u54	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I can only begin with the last and final part of Mr Manda's speech. He mentioned a statement by Evangelos Averov of 1959, made in other circumstances, at another time, which had nothing to do with what happened after 1990.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u55	You weren't born after all!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u56	Do you want to provoke me? I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Manda has not bothered anyone. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u58	It ignores this argument that, after 1990, the phase of Greece's relations with the neighbouring country took place at a completely different stage, because we now had an independent country with a specific policy of its own and everything started to be addressed in the light of the developments at the time. Things moved on. Negotiations last thirty years. It is impressive that while there are different readings in favour of the Greek arguments, the Government resorts to those against the Greek arguments. And I'm explaining. For almost thirty years, which lasts for this negotiation, after the independence of the neighbouring country, all the instructions sent by all the Foreign Ministers of all the governments to all Greek diplomats, whether in bilateral embassies or in international organizations were clear and clear: Whenever a text exists or is mentioned, the adjective "Macedonian/Macedonian" will immediately be objected to and refused acceptance. These were the directives for thirty years. These directives, these positions are not used by the current government leadership and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but they are based on arguments which undermine Greek positions. This is unprecedented. It is not of interest to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that in 1977 in a technical debate within the framework of the UN, two present and undeniable value Greeks, the bilingualist Babinotis and the then Evangelos Kofos - that is to say, the fundamental man of the policy followed by Greece over the last thirty years - say that it was a technical agreement and not a policy - which also appears from a particular paragraph of that - and presents a different opinion. But let's see what happens then. The representatives of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia come in 2002 at the same conference to attempt to strengthen something that was obviously impossible in 1977. Why did they want to strengthen it? Because that recording was weak. What did the Greek government do, the Simiti government? It gives instructions to the Greek representative to refuse. After five years of repeating this conference, the spokesman in 2007 with a Karamanlis government refuses to accept this wording. What about 2012 with a Samara government? The government's representative refuses to accept this wording.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u59	What is the result of these denials?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u60	What even happens in your days, in 2017? A statement is lodged negatively as to the acceptance of this matter and all that refusal twenty years ago you do not see it. The Minister for Foreign Affairs in an unprecedented way adopts the argument that is negative for Greek positions. That's never happened before. This has not happened. And because, as it turns out, the subject of the agreement has been overshadowed by my own speech, I will close with two thoughts. We are ten years after the strong refusal of the government Kostas Karamanlis to fall under suffocating international pressure and to impose a unanimous agreement on NATO - and that was the difficult one -, that is, he convinced that the Greek position was right all the alliance. And this meeting ended with a historic decision: there is no call for a solution. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] This was the great diplomatic paper you inherited, a nuclearly worthwhile diplomatic paper you inherited from our own party. That's what you're negotiating with. And instead of taking advantage of a juncture that you - by your interpretation - have shaped it - a juncture that was positive, namely a receptive government in Skopje, a more moderate than the extreme nationalist that we faced in 2008, instead of taking advantage of that ten years of feeling in Skopje what it would say to be out of NATO and outside the European Union, instead of making use of that pressure on them, they are asking for a solution and, in fact, they are urgently calling for, instead of making full use of all these diplomatic supplies that you received from us and the occasion that happened to you and bringing a genuine agreement in line with national interests, you...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u61	What would it be like?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u62	You want to talk about this in the one minute I've got? You bring about an agreement which falls short of both your diplomatic missions and the very favourable situation. And you know why this deal is missing? Because from the outset you have dealt with a national theme as an instrument to pervert the political system and cause a problem for your political opponent. After all, the President of Parliament said so. He said the Macedonian would be the cause of a redeployment of the political environment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u63	Mr. Kumucaco, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u64	So your concern - and I am closing with this proposal, Mr President - has not from the outset been a successful negotiation of the national issue, but to use it, to work on it to create a problem for your political opponents. We didn't do you a favor, and now you're accountable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u65	Thank you very much. Mrs Karakosta has asked for the floor on a personal matter, Mr Lazarides, and you are then, as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u66	Mr President, please, I ask for your tolerance to respond to something that Mr Mandash has mentioned in my name.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u67	No, please. Mrs Karakosta has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u68	I'll answer for a minute because my name has been mentioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u69	It is not a question, it is not a question of personality to put it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u70	That is why I ask for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u71	Mr. Tassoula, quick, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u72	Mr President, Mr Mandas said that Evangelos Averov had recognised the existence of a Macedonian language in 1959. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Wait, wait, wait! That's interesting! In September 1959, in this House, all the wings voted for a border communication agreement between Greece and Yugoslavia, Tito's Yugoslavia. All the wings! The then Foreign Minister Evangelos Averov, using in his own speech and his explanation the definition contained in the Constitution of the Federal Socialist Republic of Yugoslavia about "Macedonian language", said that this language called "Tito's constitution is not spoken in Greece. The issue at issue in the 1950s was the lack of a Macedonian minority in Greece. Averoff didn't recognize Macedonian language.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u73	It's clear what you're saying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u74	He renounced the existence of a Macedonian minority in Greece, in Greek Macedonia. Everything else is falsifying.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u75	Thank you. I'm sorry, Mrs. Caracosta. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u76	As time is limited, I will only say one phrase. The truth is that when we want to change the political position that we have been fighting for years to cast this government, we can invent various excuses. Our point, of course, is not Skopje today. It is a bill, which, on the one hand, includes the agreement of all the budgetary objectives and structural reforms which resolve the outstandingities to close the fourth assessment at Eurogroup on 21 June. It is a key date for an agreement - a package, that is debt, a fourth assessment, a Memorandum of Surveillance and the country's exit from the memoranda. This draft law, on the other hand, includes the Medium-term Financial Strategy Framework for 2019-2022, which is a development plan ensuring the achievement of the agreed budgetary objectives and provides that from 2019 onwards, a financial area to be used for the permanent reduction of taxes, the reduction of unemployment and the strengthening of the social state is created. We have to talk about this. A transition from the Memorandum to the Memorandum shall take place in the medium term. There are no new charges for citizens. There are only measures of gradual economic relief. This is where the question arises from the opposition. Measures - it says - without money. In fact, Greece must come to shape new conditions - and I shall refer here to them - without credit. In particular, with regard to the relief measures I mentioned earlier, I will mention a number of them, so that we can inspire them. Therefore, doctors’ specialties are increasing in each daily care unit. An electronic health insurance file of a beneficiary who has access to the expenditure relating to him and may be challenged in the event of his or her non-implementation shall be kept to the EEAH. The single price of the book is reintroduced. It extends the extrajudicial settlement to debts in 2017 and expands its scope, as 99% of the free professionals can join. Changes are made to the Katseli Act - Stage on the settlement of debts of overdue citizens with the aim of identifying strategic poor payers. The debtor is therefore obliged to waive the banking secrecy in order to identify those who have large amounts deposited to other banks. It changes the state-guaranteed housing loan subsidy scheme and goes to the banks, as they will now be able to claim the subsidy directly when the debtor ignores that it is entitled to it. The total cash available to all government bodies is transferred to the Single Treasury Account to the Bank of Greece to carry out audits. Compensation will be paid to undertakings producing tobacco products in any case confiscating the fifty thousand or more pieces of tobacco products. This will strengthen the fight against trafficking in tobacco products which has been large in our country. They are subject to the special VAT exemption scheme for small businesses, as well as for those who first start work. There is a tax deduction which leads to tax-free income for casual workers, unemployed persons, householders, students and others. It is a presumption of acquisition of assets the cost of insurance contracts. The tax exemption is imputed to imputable income from a main residence concession of up to 200 square metres. Motivated for audiovisual productions, not only films, in our country. It removes 30% of their eligible costs from taxation. Economic criteria are laid down in enterprises to save water and improve energy efficiency. The medium-term fiscal strategy provides for, among other things, the extension of the school meal programme to all primary schools, the increase in minimum wages, the reintroduction of collective bargaining and the elimination of undeclared work. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I want a little more and I'll be done, Mr. President. A rapid reduction in unemployment is being promoted for unemployed open-ended programmes and targeted programmes for specific categories of citizens. Recruitment - and it is serious - will become one by one and not one by three, which is today. Some forty-five-and-a-half thousand recruitments are planned. These are many positive points which, in a bill with pressurized time, with this government pressed by its lenders and with its strong will to finally leave this programme in order to give us room, we are voting for the positive elements that we have achieved. Of course I would like to refer to Rule 70, which Mrs Diamanto Manolakou has mentioned, which is partly right. I have to say this. We have received a really empty landscape in the field of spatial planning. And I'm explaining what I mean. Without land registers, without forest maps, without land uses located throughout Greece, but land uses that went and came according to which industry, crafts, we want to place anywhere, the lenders came to find a gap. Our obligation is that this provision of Article 70 should come to be interpreted together with spatial plans that would define precisely the uses of land and relieve the residential areas of many businesses that are really adjacent to their homes, their schools, their communal areas.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u77	Ms. Carachosta, please complete. You've reached eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u78	We shall therefore be in favour of correcting this issue and with interpretative circulars, provisions, but also with a change in the spatial planning that imposes these poor conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u79	Thank you very much. Parliamentary spokesman from the Independent Greeks, George Lazarides, has spoken for twelve minutes. Mr. Maniatis, Mr. Pafilis and Mr. Papadopoulos will be followed. Here, Mr Lazarides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr President. Before I begin, in relation to what my colleague mentioned earlier, where he presented to us the absolute disorganisation of the state by the previous governments, I would like to add that, even a few days ago, we voted for a bill concerning the EIA, limited companies, which had existed since 1955. Sixty - three years had not taken care of modernising the law. And a few days ago we passed another bill again on anonymous companies, which was since 1920. A hundred years they had not arranged to modernise the bill and were talking about growth. I have listened carefully to all previous colleagues, as I have listened with caution to those who appear to be saviours here with a ready solution. And go on to the parties that have never ruled the place you say 'all right, put forward some proposals'. But the parties, which have been ruling this country for over for over forty years and are responsible for the country's destruction, how have they not had all these proposals and solutions for so long? How these parties, which are so capable of bringing the place to ruin...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u81	Forty years...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u82	You will hear them, Mr. Comrade, patience. I didn't interrupt anyone. You will hear them, because you are responsible for the destruction of the country. They brought the debt to 120% of GDP in 2010. This debt was brought to times when the money flowed into our homeland. Do you want in agricultural modernisation programmes? Do you want in programs that had to do with the industry? It was a lot of programs. And yet, they managed to bankrupt the country, to overpower their own parties, to make it all the way backwards. But let me not spend any more time on these, because I want to start from elsewhere. This is where Macedonians came from. First, our position, the position of the Independent Greeks is well known. It is known from our founding declaration that we are negative in the term 'Macedonia'. In any case, however, I cannot comment on this. I have already heard the New Democracy colleague who has spoken for thirty years, because this problem has not suddenly arisen. There are thirty years and the governments concerned face it. In these thirty years the present government has ruled for three years. So who should come up here and apologize? They must go up here and apologise to those parties that ran over the past twenty-seven years, because they left a tail behind.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet in the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u84	And I'll be clearer. First of all, what's the position of Officer Opposition? We've been listening to the Civic Opposition for so long. And be careful because I stress the position of Officer Opposition. Because the role of Officerial Response is institutional, and therefore the Civilian Response should have positions and proposals. He can't come here and criticize. Of course, the opposition is also required to make criticisms. But at the same time he must put forward proposals, which he does not. But why doesn't he? That is something that concerns all of us, as it concerns the Greek people. However, I will tell you why he does not. Because there are still too many positions in the New Democracy. She hasn't made it clear, and she has not made it clear what her position is. There is the location of geographical determination, there is the place of time determination and there is also the place of not taking any position at all. For example, the Chief of Police Response, Mr. Mitsotakis, has not yet stated what his position is. He has not told us here what position he would be pleased with. Because, beyond that, I must not forget that in the past we have heard some other views, such as whatever name they are, in ten years' time. You know, the Greek people remember where these "in ten years it will have been forgotten" etc. On the other hand, I listened to the previous colleague from Officerial Representation, who, for 1977, went to underestimate some agreements, etc. - he said "you know, there were some technical and agreements discussions". But political agreements are based on technical agreements. Before an agreement is concluded and entered into the political agreement, technical agreements are prioritised. They are the technical advisers who discuss and when they end up somewhere, they put this framework in which the political agreements will then be made. So, that characterisation was bad. As far as 1959, I would like to restore historical truth. I respectfully treat Evangelos Averov, but we have to say the same thing here as they are. I would like to read to you in the Minutes of the House of 17 September 1959. "Evangelos Averov - Tositsas, Minister for Foreign Affairs: Gentlemen, on the matter of language a lot can be said. Firstly, the Macedonian language, which is spoken in Skopje and has grammar and editorial, is not spoken in Greek Macedonia. I told you the date. You can see it in the Minutes. I have here the government of November 5, 1959. There is a historical reference to restoring the truth. I wouldn't read these. I had it in my hands, but I did not intend to read it, but I do it in the restoration of the truth. Article 7: "Applications for legal action shall be submitted by the respective Ministers of Justice, at the same time as correspondence directly between the People's Republics of Serbia, Croatia, Slovenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia and Montenegro." It's from the 1959 Government. I say this in restoration of the truth. But I say this because if we do not speak with the language of truth on national issues, we will never be able to have a national consensus on these matters so that with one voice all parties can deal with these serious issues. And I'm saying it's because the tons have gone up a lot these days. I have the agreement in front of me, ladies and gentlemen. You will allow me, as time passes. I'm reading the deal now. I will stand by the points where the Qualified Opposition has been the most. Article 1, point 2. It is one of the points where the opposition stood most. It reads: 'the Parties recognise, etc.' - refers under the auspices of the United Nations - 'to which both Parties are committed in accordance with UN Security Council Resolutions 817/1993 and 845/1993 and the 1995 Interim Agreement'. Who were they ruling in 1993-1995? Did SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks rule? I'm on it now. Article 3, point (c)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u85	Those who voted for the people ruled.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u86	They are disturbing, ladies and gentlemen, but we have to listen to this. I read something else to you: 'The official language of the second part will be the Macedonian language, as recognised by the third United Nations Conference on the standardisation of geographical names held in Athens in 1977'. Who have been ruling over all these years? The Independent Greeks and SYRIZA?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u87	You recognize her.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u88	Now he's recognized.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u89	Please, ladies and gentlemen. Why are you commenting? Listen to Mr. Lazarides. What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u90	Mrs. Sweeping, a little quiet will benefit you. Patience.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u91	Mr. Lazarides, please continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u92	That's the reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u93	Ladies and gentlemen, we are not winning anything with this debate now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u94	Do you see how shallow you approach the issue, ladies and gentlemen? I told you from the outset that we cannot accept this. It's from our founding declaration. This is to restore the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u95	Come up to Thessaloniki and tell them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u96	As for you, you said yesterday that we did not go up the Independent Greeks to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u97	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u98	Am I not submitting my views? But they're bothering you and you're blocking me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u99	We're stalling like this. Ladies and gentlemen, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u100	You who said this before, interrupt me and do not let me finish my position.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u101	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u102	I have already heard other colleagues. I said earlier that it is not possible for those who destroyed the country to come now and appear as candidate saviors. It's not possible. You know, in the naval language they say: If a captain sinks a chimney in the bottle, then no one else trusts him in the fur. That's what happened with you. You smuggled the chimney on the hook when, as I said before, it was full of money from all over Europe. And not only that, but you've dived your parties financially, too. One party owes 220-230 million loans and another 200. Since you are so capable of financial management and want to save the country, why don't you save your parties? Minister, I would like your attention because there are rumors. Now, in view of the red loans that will become some sort of settlements and come foreign funds to negotiate some red loans, there is something with the two parties, that some funds will appear to buy them at very low value, too low value - there is such a fame, Minister - and then the two parties will go and negotiate. This is a very serious moral and political issue for these two parties. We all need to be careful about this. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] I'm on my way now. The New Democracy spoke of a deterioration in size, and I refer to the previous colleague. And I say, what deterioration? Received unemployment at 9%. Where did the two parties hand her over? 28%. And with this government today we are talking about 20%, and even with trends of further decline and less than 20%. Are we making the numbers worse? On the other hand, let's see what happened with GDP. You know, GDP in these four five years that were trying to save the country, the two parties, the ones capable, decreased by 25.6% -25.7% of GDP. It is a number, a size of importance, but in order to understand exactly that size, we should compare this with 28% of the reduction of GDP in Syria over the five years of war. I mean, these two parties managed to have a bloodless war in our country. On the other hand, something else I will mention, which has not happened in world history. In 2010 the private property of the Greeks was about 1.3 trillion. In 2014 that handed over the government, the private property of the Greeks was limited to 650 billion. There is no historical precedent in world history. We are talking about the absolute poverty of the population. They closed two hundred and fifty-two thousand businesses and you know, these two hundred and fifty-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-tres that they's that they were, were, were, were, were, were, were, were, were-two-two-two-two-s, were, were, were, were, were, They come and say 'a, the middle class'. But the middle class had these shops, the middle class had these crafts, the middle class had these businesses. You shut them down, you hit them, and you're coming to defend them now? They're talking about the banks. Who closed three banks?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u103	Who?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u104	You!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u105	These two parties. You shut it down. Sure. [[Noise - protests from the New Democracy Wing]] They closed down the Commercial Bank and even drunken it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u106	Please, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Lazarides, we're in 15 minutes. You have the holidays, I understand, but please, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u107	I'll close, Mr. President. You see, Mr President, I'm constantly interrupted. It's not my fault. Three banks closed down. They closed down the Commercial Bank, the support of the business world, along with the National Bank, which had virtually no problem. That is where these two parties owed them. [[Noise - protests from the New Democracy Wing]] They closed down the rural area, again because they owed themselves there, which was the support of the farmer, the support of each farmer and the last corner of Greece. Farmers know, they understand us. Even the Post Bank closed down, which had the best cash flow ratio with loans.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u108	Mr. Lazarides, please. You have to hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u109	I'll be in ten seconds, Mr. President. As far as tolls are concerned, what is being done today is clearly and is not right. But they are your commitments. These are the agreements you signed, namely that the kilometre should be up to 0,06. [[Noise - protests from the New Democracy Wing]] Of course! It's your deal. I'm hanging up with this. Yesterday or yesterday, Mr. Regling made statements, like all the international economic press, that the success story of the Eurozone will be Greece. These are things that never happened while you ruled. As long as you ruled, we were on the sidelines of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u110	Mr. Lazarides, thank you very much. Please do not have dialogues when we have a speaker at Step, because we are wasting valuable time. Your colleagues must speak and the sitting must be closed at 3 p.m. Mr. Maniatou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u111	Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to talk about Memorandum 4, which is the main topic of our debate, but about the Skopje agreement. I will not talk about the EUR 5.2 billion new measures, nor about the 2.5 billion cuts to two or three pensions to Greek pensioners, nor about the EUR 230 million extra charges for insurance contributions to freelance professionals, nor about the removal of one wage, due to the reduction of the tax exemption from Mr Tsakalotos, nor about the one million Greek citizens who will pay above ENPY. HISPIA is the strange tax that is 'not corrected, but only abolished', according to Mr Tsipras. I will not speak either of the reserves that are scanned for either Article 109 of colonialism, which is transferred to the public property for 25 billion euros, or of the 150% increase in the tolls of Ennatia, which the Minister responsible as head of the 'I do not pay' movement told us that the citizens should not pay. I will not talk about Mr Stathakis who said yesterday that the SYRIZA Government imported the social tariff. He has obviously forgotten that from 2011 to 2014, seven hundred thousand Greek families had cheap electricity. I won't talk about all this at all. I will talk about the Skopje agreement, and I would like to make it clear that this agreement has some positive elements and many negative elements. It's a bad deal. It is an agreement, which does not cancel the two main elements that should have a commonly accepted contract, so that it protects national laws and, of course, resolves the great problem that the wider region has for about twenty-five years between Greece and FYROM. What's not going to solve the deal we saw last afternoon? It doesn't resurrect the great perpetratorial vehicle. The albumination is based on three pillars. One pillar is the name of the country. A first step was taken here as northern Macedonia. But it has two more important pillars. It is the name of the language and the language is now called the Macedonian language. And it has a third pillar, which is the pillar of nationality and the citizens of the neighbouring state will be called Macedonians. Asterisks and footnotes in less than six months will not be commented on by anyone in international organisations. As a result, erga omnes do not exist. Our second important comment on why such an agreement does not serve national interests is related to the sending of a neighbouring country's invitation to join NATO. Here we are giving the major to the neighbours, the major to NATO, the major to the United States, that is to say, the state's invitation to join NATO, and we expect that, at some point in the future, what is supposed to be the case for which the neighbouring country is supposed to be committed. We consider these two conditions to be extremely important, the lifting of alphabeticalism and the non-invitation by NATO before the conditions laid down in this agreement are met. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall end with a strange article. Here I would like to put a question and I would like the Prime Minister or the Minister for Foreign Affairs to give us an answer. I don't know how many you read Article 13 of the agreement. Let me read it to you, because I am asking questions. ‘Taking into account the fact that the second Contracting Party’, i.e. Skopje, ‘is a closed State, the Contracting Parties will be guided by the relevant provisions of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea’. In simple terms, do you know what this article says?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u112	'Macedonia of the Aegean'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u113	Article 13 states that in the event of ratification of this Agreement as it stands, the State of Skopje, FYROM, as it is called, because it is an enclosed state, because of the very law of the sea, will require access to the Aegean for fisheries in particular. Because the question begins to arise because I do not know how many of my fellow Members who will be invited to sign this agreement know the details of the law of the sea, the simple question arises: Since Greece decides to declare the AEZ and there are certain rights of the enclosed state, why is there the need to have a separate article in this agreement? What is the particular reason why Greece is obliged to sign and conclude a special article on something that is probably questionable - is included in the law of the sea? So because these issues are extremely serious and I would like to address this issue very seriously, I believe that the National Representation has the right to hear the answers to the specific question raised, to hear them from the relevant Foreign Minister and, of course, from the Prime Minister of the country, so that the colleagues who agree to this convention at least know what this article is about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. Maniotis. Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Pafilis, has the floor. Mr. Paphie, I'll let you know you have six minutes. Your Chief has spoken. There will be little tolerance for Members to talk. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u115	Despite the temptation, I don't want to talk about the deal. Just to make the people clear what is going on, I would propose to you. Because you are all in agreement with the accession of the former Yugoslav Republic to NATO, because you all regard NATO as a factor of peace and security, forgetting the massacre of Yugoslavia and the creation of the problem, make a meeting with Mr Stoltenberg and Mr Piat, who has been accused of being Vice-President of the Government, to find a common solution and not to mock the Greek people by creating false controversy. As far as the bill as a whole is concerned, what the government has made a flag both in this debate and in general, is that we are coming out of the memos. Or rather he says so more that you - by addressing the New Democracy and the PASOK - have put us in, and we - SYRIZA - get the country out of the memos. This is serious fraud and mocking to the Greek people. Why? It's about creating hallucinations. Why? What were the memoirs, really? God's scourge? Oh, no. It was the requirements of the capital to deal with the crisis, that is to say, the people's crisis and, above all, the creation of conditions, that is, an institutional framework for the recovery of capitalist profitability. What did SYRIZA do today? Is he overthrowing this policy, Mr. Chakaloto? Is he pulling the people out of the memoirs? On the contrary. The SYRIZA - ANEL Government has not only overturned or improved this policy, but continued where the previous ones stopped. It has brought in a third memorandum, additional measures that serve exactly this strategy, namely the creation of a ground to regain the profits of capitalists. Did he do anything different? Oh, no. We're dating, you say, from the memoirs. What's that mocking? We come out of the memorials, but the thousand laws are kept. Do they change? Did we hear anything about changing any laws? Nobody. Not even one!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u116	IPTO.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u117	I'll see you, see you around with IPTO. You and IPTO did fine, and you found them, and you got congratulations.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u118	Didn't it change?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u119	Yes, you do very nice things! You keep the infrastructure that has a great deal of cost and trade you give it to private individuals. Are you kidding us now, little gambler? You call that a philosophical policy? That hurts, doesn't it? So I keep going so we don't cause. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] It maintains the thousands of laws and so-called reforms by abolishing the right to strike or hitting the right to strike up to all the rest required by industrialists and large capital. In fact, not only that, but it assures, gives vows of faith and examinations and says it against the New Democracy that it is not going to change anything. It's the other way around! It is presented as a guarantor of all the Memorandum Laws, and that is why it takes congratulations from the "brows", the "grards". So you told them, didn't you, the European Union, the lenders? What have you been telling them all these years? Of them, then, you are being congratulated. They probably have suicidal tendencies or serve their interests well. So when we say that the government objectively serves the interests of the bourgeoisie and imperialist organisations - this is a big chapter, a comment I will make - you protest. When we say that you have a hard class policy, a barbaric policy, and you follow it literally, you say 'no, it's not like that, we have social sensitivities'. So let's see social sensitivities. What do you get from the workers? And here I will not mention "Syria" mathematics, Mr. Chakaloto, but really mathematics. From 1-1-2019 we will have EUR 2.9 billion a year from the pension cut, by four, EUR 12.5 billion. Yes or no? You're writing them. Don't start, Mr. Karathanasopoulos told you. Secondly, there will be a reduction of the tax from EUR 8,600 to EUR 5,600. How much will you get? You will collect EUR 6 billion and you have the nerve - not to say a big talk - and you are talking about redistribution. You found yourself taxing those who get 500 euros a month. Total, 18.5 billion euros in four years, yes or no? Yeah, by the workers. What are you taking from the capitalists to see who you're finally with? Leave the tricks. From the capitalists nothing, zero! What does it give and how much? It gives EUR 1.2 billion over three years of tax relief, i.e. a reduction from 29% to 26% from 2020, yes or no? That's what you're going to save and who you're making tax exemptions. You tax the 5,600 euros and reduce the tax to billions and the unstoppable wealth. Secondly, 1 billion from development incentives. Investment law. Thirdly, 1 billion from active employment programmes. You are subsidising industrialists, employers rather than subsidising workers. Total: 3.2 billion. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me some time, Mr President. You've all given it. Thank you. Is that all? Oh, no. It is all five years of Employers' Taxation Exemption by 150%. Well, the bankers and industrialists! That's a motive. You're giving them away. Where are these from? It's from the workers. In the channels, which you would break, 103 million, from a tax reduction on advertising revenues. Sixth, electricity providers reduce the fee for renewable energy, in 2019 50%, in 2020 70%. Is it falling in Greek households? No, that's where you keep it. It's more sometimes. Here, then, who are you serving. So, in total, for the people to know, who pays the bloody surpluses? Who wins? Make an account of all this. How many countermeasures will you tell me. Fourteen billion - of course, so much - minus 3.5 billion that goes directly to the large capital, reach 10.5 billion, which is less than the 18.5 billion that you get in total. Who pays the countermeasures? And here's the tough class policy at the service of capital. The pensioner pays 500 euros with the tax reduction. Pensions are paid over and under 1,000 euros. That's where you do charity. In other words, take from those who have something to give to those who do not have it. Finally, the most famous superstition. What do we hear from controversy with the New Democracy? "We," he says, "we did not accept what the New Democracy said. We're making the superstition. We are exploiting...'. Masters in the language! You're masturbators! You've been taught by PASOK. "We value public wealth, public property." Yes, we agree. Let us agree that you are making use of it. But how? To creditors 50% and 50% of investment. What about the people? Nothing. So here's where you're taking her and the public property. And you're putting 25 billion guarantees. So stop it, stop it. Does the New Democracy disagree with all these measures? I have not heard any commitment to abolishing them. What we hear is that the state keeps going. Will you abolish all the measures taken and taken?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u120	Mr. Palphie, put your end to it. You can put in wonderful.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u121	Will you undermine the capitalist development path? Of course not. You will continue on the same line. Finally, the New Democracy has suffered. They ate her bread. With this policy of SYRIZA and with its anti-communism intelligent and underground - from at least some - and evil - it goes on to load this policy, which is the same as its own, on the left, to hit the JRC effectively. For rulers have been divorced with the Left for many years. So I'm saying she left you in the band. He passed you through the right and very quickly. And where you said "left parentheses" you go right after the same policy and where you say left and left comes out an American Left. Congratulations! Take Mr. Pyatt to agree with what you're saying, because that's where you'll be next time. The people on the way to overthrow! You're not giving him anything. You're not gonna give it to him. Don't believe SYRIZA's fairy tales. To fight.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u122	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u123	Thank you, too. We will apply for a roll-call vote on the principle and on some articles - not to have any more time - and we will give it to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u124	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take note of the fact that the Committee of Inquiry into the scandal in the field of health in 1997-2014, set up in accordance with Articles 144 et seq. of the Rules of Procedure and for which the plenary of the House has set a deadline for submitting its findings on 20 June 2018, calls for an extension of its operation until 23 October 2018. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u125	The House unanimously agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u126	The Minister has the floor, Mr Tsakalotos, for some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u127	Thank you, Mr President. Before I say anything about legislation, I would like to thank Mr. Paphie for giving me the best compliment I've ever had in my life that I am a master of the language. Thank you very much for that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u128	Well, that was plural. I said 'you are' not 'you are'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u129	I just want to make one comment, politically, I will answer you later. When I criticize paintings and numbers and Mr. Karathanasopoulos speaks and you see my reaction, it's good to look after them because I'm saying something. It's not 2.9. On the board, the first line says 2.9 is the gross. Look what he says underneath, what's the number. I'm telling you, so we don't fight about it alone. It's a mistake to number 2,9 because it's the gross number. Legislative improvements have to do with withdrawing a little piece, which has to do with the banks' guarantees, because it needs more thought. We were shown some problems we hadn't considered and we'll come back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u130	Mr. Papadopoulos of SYRIZA now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u131	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for his data on Greece and its leading role in the Balkans, about the possibilities of collaborative development, peaceful coexistence of the peoples, are stubborn. International assessments of the course and perspective of the Greek economy may disturb Turkey, but I don't suppose it bothers you too. Greece is changing page. "It is now a different country", notes Mario Stentenno, "a country that has all the preconditions for taking over its own fates, the Greek authorities have done a wonderful job". "The efforts of Greece are vindicated," says Angel Guria of the OECD. "You have made the reforms that are necessary to alleviate the debt." Greece, following the expected positive fourth assessment of the third memorandum, following the expected positive response to its unbundled debt service, is still turning the post-civil period page, it is still a protector of the lenders, it is still a debt colony, it can continue to be a highly indebted country - and Italy is - but it is still a protector. It acquires levels of freedom of hierarchies, choices, revenue and expenditure for its productive reconstruction, for its own strategy plan for fair and sustainable development. Of course, the long period of scandalous public money management, explosive deficits, overcompensation and custody of the country by its creditors with theories of internal devaluation obviously leaves its mark at the time of the official end of the Memorandum Programmes for which all representatives of the European institutions are assured. The exit is clear, because there are no new prerequisites, new blackmails, new orders to sailors. There is, of course, increased budgetary supervision. There is the neoliberal Stability Pact. There is a requirement to comply with the prior agreements. The lenders want to get their money back, and this means commitments to all, at least, those political forces that Greece wants to remain in the united Europe. The amazing thing is that the parties responsible for overcompensation, for remulating public money, for huge deficits, for memorial depreciation agreements, the parties that called for us to love, to adopt the memorials, its fanaticals "yes" are now accusing us of signing a fourth memorandum, that the third was unnecessarily, while the first two were needed and screaming now against the consequences of overcompensation, which they caused, for the high primary surpluses that were demanded by the lenders and by the current government, while they had signed worse, to reduce pensions and tax burdens blackmailed by the International Monetary Fund in December 2016, in consultation with Germany, while they had signed zero deficits in insurance funds and pensions, blame us for the guarantees of repayment and repayment of the loan contract. The demands of blackmail creditors were imposed on all governments and to that of Mr Samaras. In Greece they may not have imposed a change of the Minister of Finance, such as in Italy, but imposed the replacement of the government of Papandreou when they called for a referendum on their demands and guided the government of Papademos, imposed the 2 billion billion-dollar gap on the Samara government, demanded nineteen prerequisites for the closure of the fifth assessment of the second memorandum. So that we do not forget, so that we do not provoke tears about endlessness, so that we do not demonize what it is and what is not the superstition, so that we do not resort to new delusional ones, such as the ones we heard from Mr Maniatis yesterday on the use of public property, without taking a dividend, says, Mr Maniatis, creditors. How did you discover that? The possibility for lenders to dismiss what the country is obliged to do against its lending. Of course, I would remind you that Mr. Vorides also had a deliberate loss of memory for the credit contract of the summer of 2015. We would be happy if there were any possibility of a better deal than the one that made our staff with the European Stability Mechanism, because he managed to limit the creditors' requirements to 25 billion from the 50s that they asked of the other governments, with the Hellenic Company of Property Participants other than the CFS. The SIPS in profit allocation from recovery will only pay 50% and the rest will be for investments. We would be happy if there were something better than the presence of three Greeks on the EISA Board of Directors, from the responsibility of Greeks with rich CVs as CEO, from the strategic exploitation plan for the assets of EASA, the EESC, which was abolished by the EESC, by the fact that the real estate of the public is not registered as a mortgage...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u132	Close, Mr. Papadopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u133	I'm hanging up. Greece is really changing page after eight years of handing over responsibility for economic policy to its lenders, with erroneous theories, erroneous recipes, vengeance, appropriate extortion, which burdened the state's situation. We want with you until the upcoming elections to have a debate on programmes, on ideas, on principles, and we have a lot of time ahead of us to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u134	Thank you very much. Mrs Valia Vayonakis from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u135	Ladies and gentlemen, I will not deal with the scepticism, because I believe that we will be given the opportunity, on the basis of both the text and the committee, to speak, but also to the plenary. Until then, I recommend cooling and sobriety. So we are discussing today the last bill of Memorandum era, as the completion of the fourth and final evaluation will allow our country to leave behind the most difficult and numerously damaging period that Greece has experienced since the post-Population era. The negotiations still end on two major issues, but this will also be done in the next few days. The first concerns the concreteness of the measures to regulate the Greek debt, where I would remind you that the framework has already been defined by the Eurogroup's decisions in June last year, an extremely important, of course, openness, the closure of which I believe will send a strong signal to the international investment community. The second relates to the post-programming regime, a scheme followed by the other countries which have been found in programmes, but which in no case constitutes an extension of memoranda and coercion. Of course I cannot overlook the fact that we have a difficult reality in Greek, European and global, that we are not proud of the Memorandum cheques that have been imposed on us, even though we have done everything we can to compensate for their anti-social aspects. Therefore, our goal the next day should be to continue at all levels overthrowing and the last injustice. I need to remind you, however, that in August 2018, the memos are a definitive past for the place and this is an irreversible but not at all self-evident development. It is a development that has arisen after persistent and painful work through a roadmap that our government is serving firmly and unreservedly with one aim: to get out of the memorials and build a future with dignity, taking advantage of the country's comparative advantages, trying to reduce the income gap that in the years of the crisis was gigantic and to create growth for the benefit of the many. Ladies and gentlemen, there are some undeniably positive elements in the Greek economy. We have a positive growth rate after ten years of recession. We have a steady increase in exports and investments. We have an increase in industrial production, processing, work. Unemployment has fallen, but of course it is still high. The good news is that seven out of ten new jobs are full-time and wage costs increase. Of course no one triumphants and nobody says that on August 20 we will eat gold spoons. Moreover, the indicators and, unfortunately, the everyday life will take a long time to see all positive shifts in the Greek family. In view of the facts, however, we should, I think, be discussing today. We should be discussing whether the basis for growth and re-industrialisation is correctly or wrong, whether the provisions on combating unemployment are in the right direction and whether the decision on employers' contributions to create new jobs for full-time employment is deducted from gross revenue, increased by 50% over a whole five-year period. We should be discussing whether or not we have made good moves in social policy, whether or not it is sufficient that the welfare budget has been multiplied or something else should be done, whether it should be given to five hundred thousand households EUR 70 to 210 per month as a rental subsidy or as a loan instalment for first residence. We should be discussing whether it is good or not that the collective labour agreements are returning or whether the NRP correctly has development-oriented guidelines, particularly for small and medium-sized enterprises. For there is no doubt that this bill has difficult and good interventions, such as that the Public Investment Program in 2018 will reach 6,75 billion and between 2019 and 2022 in total, amounts of course necessary for the development of the country, such as the provisions of the Ministry of Finance for the Smuggling of Smugglers, which will make tobacco companies accountable, such as provisions on occasional or occasional unemployed, students, householders, who will see tax reductions when their actual income does not exceed EUR 6,000 or imputable to 9,500 euros, such as provisions that will introduce a lower rate of 5% tax on paid wages, the reduction in half of the advance tax on persons who obtain revenues due to work, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, because I see that time is going on and I do not want to tire you out, I think that Greece has the potential to move forward and that we must all contribute in this direction.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u136	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall be going until 13.15 seconds exactly. Let's move on, then. Mr. Nikolaos Manius has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now talking four days about the bill in a context where there is the question of resolving the Macedonian problem, which is dominating both our thoughts and our positions. I want to start with two comments. It is a good thing that we do not make reference to what this and the suffering said at that time and to whom it was said, because such references without the analysis and approach of the particular historical moment that has been said lead to the wrong conclusions. That is the one point. Secondly, not to say who said congratulations to whom, and so on, because if someone in this Chamber bears in mind how extreme things have been heard, then we will draw irrational conclusions. Also, the JRC's partners must answer once that all that they denounce to us is correct and obviously not overthrow the system. Is the promulgation of another system more subversive? This is a big issue that we must at one time respond seriously. And also, the suggestions for courage not to be done, because we have proved practically and especially the older people at age that courage has always been. It is of great importance that we do not lead to personal issues. Let's see now the famous Macedonian. If we take these historical stories that have been written and heard, we will very easily conclude that the philosophical words of Demosthenes were in favour of the Macedonians. So if we see what the people who were fighting for Macedonia said in 1830 until 2004 and 2005, we will see that in 2004 the captain of the region said, "Thus came, next to Skopje and spoke Macedonian, there came this and spoke the Slavic language and we had a translator who translated it into Greek". We need to land. What now obliges us to solve this? And not now, we should have solved Skopje already. As this country is among contributors, it must find a way out not into the sea, but a political way out. It is a subordinate of Bulgaria and the Albanians. What did the Bulgarians say? Anyone who wants to come in and declare that he's Bulgarian to give him a passport. That is to say, they must become European citizens. What did the Turkish Prime Minister do? He said "solve your problem, but if you don't solve it, we're here". Do we want to put our nervous neighbours on our northern border? If we want to, we should decide to leave the story aside. History teaches us, if we know how to read it, not if we don't know. Because it was history in 1897 the Greek-Turkish war and under what great idea came, history was also in 1922, how the disaster took place. So if history doesn't know how to read it, don't invoke it. Now, as far as the bill is concerned, I have nothing to say to defend it or not. Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that this is the fourth, worst possible memorial, and so on. Yes, sir. And why not make the motion of censure today, stop the process, fall the government that you do not want and then come along? You're going to make the motion of censure tomorrow, from the safe. Always safe. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over, Mr Nikolaos BOUTSIS]] There's a question, not to me, to the Greek people. Since this New Democracy had been brought up as it had been for all years, why does this government want to fall now? Because they are still waiting to go to the forum and go to the courts, as in Spain, the scandalists have done. Who are they? Everybody let's keep their minds working.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u138	Say names!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u139	Please. I'll tell the D.A. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The D.A.'s gonna call the names. So those who fear justice are shouting for the government to leave. If, of course, the parties here, Mr Samaras and Mr Ivanov, would make the big deal. The two extremes on the right came and hugged to drown the people in hatred.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u140	Ladies and gentlemen, from now on the procedure is this: will the Chief of Police Vice-President Mitsotakis speak and then, from the point of view of the parties' leaders, Mrs Gennimatas, Mr Theodorakis will speak and the Minister of Finance Mr Euklidis Tsakalotos will close the meeting. Intermediately, if there is time, some Members will go in further in the order they have. This will be judged by the time we have, because at 15: 00, the vote will take place, as we have committed. I am sorry, there are several colleagues left but they have already spoken about seventy-five and in a comfortable manner, beyond the parliamentary delegations. The President of the New Democracy, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u141	Mr President, I note that the Prime Minister will not take the floor to defend the bill. It seems to me, indeed, that, unless it changes its programming until the end of the debate. This shows how passionately it defends the measures which you, gentlemen, will impose on the Greek people, your Prime Minister, who is absent from today's debate. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government ends its term of office just as it started it: by lying. In the titles the debate today concerns a bill on the Medium-term Financial Strategy 2019-2022 and the measures accompanying it. The truth, however, let us not get tired of technocratic wordings, is that this is the fourth memorandum, the second in order that brings the signatures Alexis Tsipras and Panos Kammenos. It is a memorandum that binds the country for many years, but without provision for financing, but at the same time with a heavy mortgage on the national wealth of our country. What the fourth Memorandum provides for is already known to all Greek citizens. It reduces wages, reduces pensions, reduces tax. At the same time, what has been left of the CSCE and the VAT on the islands has been abolished. It also increases contributions to farmers and free trade. And all this, of course, falls on a society which has already been injured by what has happened in recent years. Ladies and gentlemen, the numbers are not lying. Cyprus in the last three years has developed cumulatively by 9.3% and Greece has only 0.9%. The worst thing, however, is that the government is still lacking against itself. Minister, every last year and better! If you compare this year with last year's medium-term, you will see that GDP in 2021 is 6.6 billion euros less than you predicted last year, while for the whole period 2017-2021 it will be a total of 26.3 billion less. You do not believe in your forecasts either, and that is why you are forced to review them all the time down. I'm filing the relevant table in the Minutes. Please give him to the Minister of Finance [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] All of this while society has paid very much for this government. Where we would be today, if it had not occurred in the first catastrophic half of 2015, everyone knows that anymore. There is only a comparison with Portugal, Ireland, Cyprus, with countries that have come out - unfortunately for us, thankfully for them - definitively from the crisis. They are countries that produce wealth, which can lend safely and at relatively low cost from the markets. At the same time, Greece is dragging away and the distance that separates it from the other European countries is growing. The government drowned the Greeks in taxes. He shattered growth, impoverished the middle class, punished and still punished business success. He attacked immoral, in a way - I can say - classic about the available income of the Greeks and especially the available income of the middle class, in order to create the most famous surplus, for which you celebrate, and to distribute a small part of the excess with criteria entirely selfish. You have created a great mass of desperately drowned debts and have no hope of the future. One in two Greeks owes taxi, funds or banks. Almost two million of our fellow citizens are unable to regulate debts of EUR 500. In this society, therefore, it comes to impose a fourth memorandum on citizens who are already suffocating from high taxes and unreasonable contributions, on an economy without liquidity and on capital controls and on public debt to the market to have been poured out, with healthy entrepreneurship chained up. [[Noise from the Wing of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR]] Gentlemen of KINAL, I understand you're in a relative turmoil. But please, if you can make a little quiet. Mr President, will you make it easier for me?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u142	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u143	Ladies and gentlemen, in order to hide this reality, the rulings continue to make politics the only way they know, lying. So we hear that the so-called end of the memorial is coming thanks to a clean exit that will bring the country out into an environment - how did you tell us? - then - of frugality. I am here, as are all the Members of the New Democracy, and those who have spoken, both our rapporteur and our parliamentary representative, to tell you the truth. The truth you're trying to hide, but it's in the official text of the fourth memorandum. Let us see, then, soon who are the great losers, Mr Minister, of the fourth memorandum. We therefore have to say that the pensioners. In a few months each pensioner will lose up to two pensions and in a clearly worse position there will be five hundred thousand public pensioners who will be beaten three times by combining the abolition of personal differences, the abolition of the CSCE and the reduction of tax. Second, the low-wages. The tax-free - and I will come back to this, Mr Minister, after - for farmers, employees and pensioners, where were they in 2014? It was 9,545 euros. Now it's down to 5.680 euros. That means simply that, for the first time, on your own days, they will pay our fellow citizens' tax which they are invited to make at EUR 500 a month. This is the supposed sensitivity of the Left to the weakest! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Third, free professionals. The 15% discount on income is horizontally abolished, thus reducing the available income for lawyers, doctors, engineers and farmers further. Four big losers are property owners in poorer districts. You, who would take out the ENPIA, even increase it in the poorest neighborhoods. A million households will pay more.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u144	Poor households? Mykonos, your friends?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u145	An apartment in Nice, Mr Tsakalote, would pay EUR 300, and today it pays 400. Is this a small increase for you, Mr. Chakalote?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u146	I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u147	We have the same incidents in a number of degraded areas, but you obviously do not care.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u148	You didn't come out.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u149	Are you guys talking about dismantling HISBIA? Do you have the nerve to interrupt already? Aren't you embarrassed? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Don't interrupt me again! You have your nest very dirty, Mr. Tsakalote.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u150	Please don't interrupt!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u151	And it gets worse: Public property enters a pledge for 25 billion euros via the U.S.A., which reminds us that it was formed again with the signature Tsipras - Kammenos. The propaganda tells you that Article 109 is a simple recast of a previous arrangement. However, the July 2015 Euro Summit and L.4336/15 clearly link this commitment to the recapitalisation of banks. Now we're talking about a new humiliating mortgage that bears your signature. The people who in 2014 called the 3% to 4.5% surpluses for three years now chain the country with surpluses of 3.5% to 5.2% for five years. I would like to remind you what Mr Tsipras said just two years ago on the question of overcrowding at the Economist conference that will go back to talk tomorrow. I would remind him, therefore, that he said two years ago: 'It is absolutely impossible primary surpluses of 3.5% after 2018 to maintain them for several years. Besides, the Prime Minister adds, "if we want to drown the Greek economy and have constant conditions of long-term stagnation. I believe that no one wants this.' That is exactly what you did with your own policy. Mr Tsakalotes, I am presenting the relevant passage from the speech of the Prime Minister in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice.]] [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But these are not the only devastating consequences of the fourth memorandum. Unfortunately, the long-handed hand of the state invades the funds of the agencies and removes all their reserves of security. This means that the liquidity of the municipalities, services of general interest, hospitals and necessarily restrict their operation to the minimum. This is a third-world situation in the name of the infamous "cushion", with which you are going to drown the country. Of course, all this is part of a profoundly immoral and dishonest strategy. For years you have strangled society to create the infamous financial space, the infamous surplus, and then you come and share benefits to social groups that have targeted them and you consider them politically vulnerable and therefore, which are likely to become your electoral clientele. This is the Greece you want: a Greece that is poor in overtaxation, financially stagnated and lacking in liquidity, a society divided with citizens dependent on the regime you are trying to set up. So that is your truth: a Prime Minister who would split the third memorandum and in three years he brought two memorials far heavier and a finance minister who would submit his resignation for taxfree, but who stays in his chair to be the one to reduce it. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Scripta manent, Mr Chakalote. On April 12, 2016 you said: "We were told that we should reduce tax. We have made a very small reduction in duty, as I have told you, for someone of EUR 15,000 affects him EUR 60 a year and we are not making another reduction in tax. I am not prepared to present to the Greek Parliament a bill that has tax-free less than what you will see in the bill." So there are'red' lines. You said that, Mr. Chakaloto. And you have the nerve to still sit in your chair. Shame on you! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I'm filing it in the Minutes. Please, give it to Mr. Chakaloto to remind him of what he said two years ago. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Have the courage to deal with what you said two years ago. Do you not want to tell you about ministers who paid the thirteenth pension and the thirteenth salary, and today they take two pensions and one salary from each Greek? Or for the MPs, who would pay no ENPIs and tolls at all? Or for those who protested in Northern Greece and told the North Hellas "Never toll in Egnatia" and now come to put far higher tolls? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So I see you all ready to vote for it all, to hold on to power, if you are still delaying your inevitable ending for a while. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not just here about the revelations in the fourth memorandum. Society knows, and that is why you do everything you can to avoid elections. But eventually you won't avoid them. I am here and to show that there is another way and that Greece can and should be better served. GDP can be increased, not only as an economic size, because the 'alpha' in GDP is growth, it is dignity, it is credibility. "echlon" is the unity of our people and "white" is patriotism, a new patriotism, which ultimately concerns all aspects of our public life, everyday security in the neighbourhoods, the functioning of institutions and the rule of law, the responsibility each of us has, not only toward himself and his family, but to society. And this is the epitome of new patriotism, as I understand it. But patriotism primarily concerns the national issues, the non-negotiable defence of the country's interests. Ladies and gentlemen, for three years the New Democracy has been taking responsibility for the institutions and with an absolute feeling that what is important is the interests of our country. We proved it at difficult times, without measuring the political cost. When you played Greece in the dice in 2015, we set our backs and saved our country. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] What began three years ago with raw lies and uprooting promises now ends in commitments that will be burdening the country for decades. We were quite entitled to vote for the first time two years ago. If they had been carried out then, we would have avoided the worst. The SYRIZA - ANELs came to power with lies and try to keep power with commitments that will be burdened with the country for many years, commitments that extend beyond the constitutionally defined mandate of today's government. Greece is lagging behind in a dangerous political decline, because there is no prior government, which is without popular acceptance, but without adequate parliamentary legitimacy, to carry out harmful manipulations, not only for the economy, but also for national issues. That is why we are facing an unprecedented juncture today. At the same time as we are discussing the fourth memorandum, Mr Tsipras is preparing to sign an agreement with our northern neighbour and effectively commit the country to a framework which creates a fait accompli and can hardly change the next day. I have every reason to believe that this synchronisation of critical foreign and economic policy issues is not an accident. It is your conscious choice to turn publicity lights away from the painful measures of the fourth memorandum and to plunder and divide Greek society. I cannot imagine that you are exchanging a serious national retreat to national issues with some more 'concept' of our partners on economic issues. But I can assure you that the majority of the Greeks believe that. That after following the creditors' orders on economic issues, you are now coming to regulate what you simply call an openness to foreign policy. Not because that's in the country's interest, but because that's what the international player wants. We want a solution to this issue. We want stability in the Balkans, but this requires a stable and strong Greece. A solution that does not affect our national interests. [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from the New Democracy Ward]] You know, it is time, ladies and gentlemen, to say the great 'yes' or 'no', and I heard Mr. Tsipras have the courage yesterday to knit Kostas Karamanlis's ego for his operations in Bucharest. So let me remind you that where Karamanlis said 'no', you are saying 'yes' today. [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from the New Democracy Ward]] Then, as it is now, international pressures have been exerted, but it matters not what serves foreigners, but what ultimately benefits our country. The Skopje deal is the drop the glass has finished. It imposes on itself that it may not be reversible and it is my duty to do everything I can to prevent this from happening as long as it is time. The Tsipra Zaef deal is a bad deal. The acceptance of Macedonian language and Macedonian ethnicity constitute an unacceptable national retreat. [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from the New Democracy Ward]] But even on that matter, you lied. I read from the Prime Minister's dilemma just two days ago. They agreed to rename their country to the Republic of Severna Macedonija, that is to say in our language in the Republic of Northern Macedonia. Where is Severna Macedonija in the agreement you deposited in the House? You're lying today! [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from the New Democracy Ward]] I'm filing it in the Minutes. For the first time Greece recognizes Macedonian ethnicity and language in our northern neighbours, elements that are the root of aluterism. That's what everyone tells you, even Mr. Koutsubas. Will you call him far-right? Once you accept the existence of a Macedonian nation and language, the geographical designation of the name is not essential. [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from the New Democracy Ward]] You go especially to the Members of Northern Greece to tell the cafes that those who speak Macedonian are in fact excluded from being called North-Macedonians. Let me just say it just so you know it, too. With the agreement you have submitted to Parliament, the state takes geographical determination, its people are not. Can you tell me why, even with your agreement, the inhabitants of northern Macedonia will only be called Macedonians and will they speak Macedonian? This is a development that runs counter to the Greeks' national feeling. It is something that the government and all of you are provokingly ignoring, as you do not care about the fact that a bad agreement at this time is giving ground to marginal elements to exploit to a false copy of nationalism, which is unfortunately happening throughout Europe. Several wounds need to be healed by now. We do not need to open up another, especially in northern Greece, especially at this juncture. My priority and priority of the fact that I have the honour to lead is to contribute with all our powers to safeguard the unity of the Greek people. I say again: we will not divide the Greeks to unite the Skopje. [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from the New Democracy Ward]] The Skopje problem cannot be our problem. [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from the New Democracy Ward]] At the same time, popular reactions are multiplying. At the same time - beware - a declared dimension is recorded within the government itself, since the government partner disagrees with the agreement and in an open and provocative manner. So Mr Tsipras is preparing Sunday for the Prespecies to sign an agreement, which binds the country, without even knowing whether there is the necessary parliamentary majority on this issue, without even having the unanimous support of the Council of Ministers, which did not even meet on this matter. Where did you discuss the deal? In the Chamber of the Ministerial Council or in Koumoundouros with your partners who wanted Macedonia straight? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] All this is unprecedented. I am obliged, it is an act of responsibility, to exhaust all the possibilities that the Constitution provides me to prevent this development. This catapult has to stop now before it's too late. The future of the country cannot be mortgaged by a bad agreement which does not serve national interests. It is irresponsible and dishonest for the government to hand over the country so that you do not hand over power. Mr. Tsipras, despite the fact that I asked him, refused to ask the House for the mandate to sign the agreement. The reason is obvious to keep playing this politically immoral theatre with Mr. Kammenos, who, in his words, does not support the agreement, but does not move it from his chair. Of course, it is not today's sitting again. He's only a minister for the travel and the privileges of power. I must try to prevent this unprecedented institutional derailment, in which you are driving the country. I have an obligation to the Greek people to try to prevent the mortgage of our country's future with an agreement that harms national interests. Under the present circumstances and since the Government does not have any popular authority or political legitimacy to continue its irresponsible course, the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, in accordance with Rule 84 of the Constitution and Rule 142 of the Rules of Procedure, shall submit immediately after the end of today's debate a motion of censure against the Government. [[Upright Members of the New Democracy applaud vividly and protractedly]] And I challenge Mr. Tsipras who hides if he dares... [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Will you represent him? Why? Where is he? He's here, and we don't see him? Is he invisible?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u152	Be quiet, please, so the president can finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u153	And say it was a surprise? We told you so beforehand. But he chooses to hide Mr. Tsipras. So I challenge him. Mr. Flambury, if you wish, answer for the Prime Minister, because I see that you're raising your hand. So I challenge you, if you dare, to turn the motion of censure into a proposal of confidence in your government, as all your predecessors have done, to confirm the positive vote of Parliament towards their Government and finally to see if there are 154 Members who are willing to say yes to the signature you are preparing to put to the Prespecies on Sunday. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So I challenge you, Mr Tsipras, because today we are all involved with history. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u154	Thank you very much, Mr President. The President of the Officerial Responsibility has tabled the intention of Officer Responsibility for submitting the motion of censure in accordance with the articles of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. In order to comply properly and to close the current procedure, to respect all the institutions provided for. As soon as the vote is over, after 3 p.m., the proposal from at least 50 Members will also be tabled so that there will be no disharmony between the two procedures. Ladies and gentlemen, after consulting the government and the Prime Minister and President of SYRIZA, I tell you that the government will not make use of the power of the Constitution to start the debate after two days. So, after these procedures have been followed and after a special agenda has been signed, today at 6 p.m. the debate on the motion of censure will begin. [[Applause]] Please very much to the President of the Democratic Association Mr. Fotini (Photo) Genitals take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u155	Thank you, Mr President. The climate in this Chamber today, but also throughout the country, proves and confirms once again why we have called for elections now, because we have asked for the Greek people to speak. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] It is very heavy the shadow in the Hall of the Greek Parliament and I was very gray about the daily life of every Greek household. The new commitments made by Mr Tsipras along with those of the third memorandum are a heavy legacy for the country and the citizens. In fact, the fourth memorandum is here without money and without any commitment from the partners to alleviate public debt. Mr. Tsipras has passed the nest on the neck of the Greek people. Pure exit? That's the end of that story. Prime Minister, you're actually building the public property. It's a crime you're doing and you'll answer to the Greek people. Remember that Article 109 will be on your side. The Troika-controlled superstition enters a guarantor for payment of up to EUR 25 billion if Greece fails to pay to the ESM. In short, lenders are fully assured by Mr Tsipras and his Government. You're supposed to be, just as banks do with homes, public property as a guarantee. What we have refused so many times before in the troika and in Mr. Shoeble you now give it to your government. You accepted this development against the values and principles of the Left. Yes, gentlemen of the government, it's unfair and you do it. It's a decency act. It's a disgrace to Greece. It offends the Greek people. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] I said before that it is the time that Greece is negotiating its future, unfortunately without leadership in the circumstances, with a government without any plan on the substance, now is the time for the Greek people to decide, who will finally lead the effort to definitively exit, with what guarantees, with what plan, with which proposal. We cannot warn from one moment about the problems, the dangers, the dead-ends that are coming, and the other time we can keep an eye on them, as the New Democracy has done all the previous time, which has been calling for every day's election for two years and at the critical moment, he said: 'Raden in the fall'. In other words, "Continue to destroy the country, Prime Minister, for us to rule next". The logic of the mature fruit. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] We refuse to expect fatalisticly a legacy trap for the country. The country must and can seek a careful and gradual release from the memorandum so that the exit is final. This must be the country's target. Never need memos again. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now being called upon to vote on a bill binding on the main economic policy priorities for the coming years, another Memorandum of Tsipras. You know, of what he would tear up, that would be abolished by a law, by an article. Now the second one comes with his signature. The government has committed itself to unbearable primary surpluses. It continues and expands the exterior charges for Greek households and businesses. The main components? Same. Overtaxation, dismantling of the social state, undermining investments and the development prospects and, of course, comitology. The comitology that is here is tough and will be reinforced and will continue for the rest of the period. Who's affected? What are the real losers of these measures? Are the rich and the powerful, as government officials say in the channels? Of course not. They are the wage earners and pensioners who will be invited to pay another EUR 2 billion each year from the tax reduction. They are a million low-payers, low-cost pensioners and farmers, who will be asked for the first time to pay the tax, losing EUR 650 a year from their income. They are a million retired people who will be invited to pay EUR 2.6 billion each year with the application of the Katrugalos Act. They are pensioners who will lose 700,000 euros yet to postpone the planned increases in their pensions. Of course they are the low-pensioners who are definitively farewell to the ESS. The free professionals are lost, who will be invited to pay another EUR 140,000,000 each year because of the change in the method of calculating their contributions. They are our islanders, who will be invited to pay the increased VAT, and even at a time when migration flows and the government's inability to deal with them are stepping up the problem. They are Greek households who see that ENPHY does not only live and reign, but is also permanently expanded and expanded, and more and more affected by popular classes. Of course, it is the development that is undermined by taxes, cuts, surpluses and governmental medals at the expense of all major investments. The government programme insists on low anaemic growth rates, which, in fact, are falling particularly after 2020, jeopardising the country's progress. But the surpluses are good. And, indeed, it is planned to remove EUR 57 billion from the public and the economy by 2022 and, in fact, with surpluses above the target of 3.5%. How long will the Greeks, when they already owe EUR 130 billion due to taxation and insurance funds, when the private debt as a whole is EUR 300 billion, when the households are unable to meet, even their basic daily needs? I fear that, behind all this, new measures and new cuts are being concealed. What did SYRIZA say when he was in the opposition? That austerity undermines growth. What do his executives say now? It's a precondition for austerity for growth. The chair of power! [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] "Don't worry, however..." says the government, "because the countermeasures come," these notorious countermeasures. Too bad for nothing. Ten gets, one gives back. The cuts are permanent and the tips are temporary and selective. They share poverty. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill under discussion also contains a number of other provisions that highlight the real face of SYRIZA - ANEL policy. By means of the provision for compulsory deposit of the funds of the public institutions in the single Treasury Account and its DPRK administrator, the Government is obviously attempting to meet the public credit requirements until the elections. The only thing that this provision will achieve is further weakening the banks by reducing their deposits, so the new liquidity deficit and the inability of public bodies to fulfil their obligations in good time. Consider a simple example: What if there is a delay in the ESA compensation for farmers? I come to the second point which shows the real picture of this government. Not only did we find the provision to increase the minimum wage anywhere, but on the contrary, the government is reducing the possibility for trade unions to resort to arbitration. We obviously understand that the government considers that the strong side is the workers and the powerless, which requires protection and care on its part, are the employers. Congratulations again, ladies and gentlemen of the government. You are perfectly implementing the policy announced by Mr Mitsotakis at his previous meeting with the BSE. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Finally, you prove incapable even of copying our proposals. We have tabled a proposal for a job subsidy for a year, so that jobs can be created in the private sector and the unemployed can be absorbed. You've changed her proposition lights. The incentive that we have proposed is only one third of our proposal. And in copying you're relayed. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that our answer at first and in the articles of the bill is a great 'no'. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Every day that everyone passes understands the real damage caused by the SYRIZANELs in the country over the years. And there are questions: would all this be done anyway? Whatever government was at the place, would he do the same? Is this all due to previous governments, and the good SYRIZANELs could do nothing else to deal with the problems that were created? This is precisely the propaganda of the government, which is accompanied, of course, by a sufficient dose of Scandalology, polarization, toxic climate and division. The New Democracy, for its part, is at odds with this situation, because through this duplicate that they are trying to create, their own responsibilities are forgotten. If, therefore, Mr Mitsotakis, you do not know or remember what happened in the country from 2004 to 2009 that the New Democracy ruled, you have nothing but to ask Mr. Horsescouf, who is the only official of your area who dared to make self-criticism after so many years. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] But I shall return to today and to whether or not we would have made it that way. No, I answer unequivocally. Without SYRIZA's policy of expulsion - ANEL things would be different. It would not have lost the economy 200 billion euros, we would not have reached the capital controls and the control of the banking system by foreigners if they had not mediated the achievements of Mr Tsipras and Mr Varoufakis in 2015. Not all of these taxes, reductions and cuts would be needed. Many of the things we have been living in recent years would have been avoided if Mr Tsipras instead of the early elections had accepted our proposal in 2015. And, obviously, our proposal was never to enter his government, nor was it ever his proposal to enter his government. Because there's so much lies in public, we can say some truth, because I think we need to. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Our proposal was, therefore, "Simplified this great parliamentary support you have" - five parties supported him in the summer of 2015 - "built a national negotiating team to improve this agreement that you brought, the unbearable one, with the back on the wall". He, however, did not prioritise what will happen at the place, but how he will solve his internal-party problems. And that's what he did. We would not have lost this three-year period of about 10% of the expected GDP growth, that is, 20 billion more from income, from the Greek economy. And yes, we would have already secured a definitive exit from the crisis and the memos. You failed, gentlemen of the government, in the economy. But you continue to make commitments. And now you are making commitments to national issues too. The agreement presented by the government is a step, but under no circumstances complete. It has positive points that are in line with the framework we have set ourselves as a Movement of Change, but also over time, in order to resolve the problem of Skopje. The implementation of this agreement is clear that it does not depend on our side, but exclusively on the neighbouring country's side. Apart from the great uncertainty about whether it can be completed, there are negative points and problems that can remove the prospect of a viable and nationally beneficial solution. And I say in particular: This agreement could only be accepted if the revision of the constitution of Skopje includes the adaptation of nationality and language, in accordance with the new name, and, of course, only if the invitation letter to join NATO is sent after the completion of all the procedures undertaken by Skopje to do so, so that they do not become finalised for our country. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] We have noted for a long time the harmful movements of SYRIZA - ANEL and the consequences of the involvement of the issue in the internal political game. With their bilingualism and manipulation they fully assume responsibility for the political and divisive climate that has been created at the moment in the Greek people. It is your choice to divide the Greeks on such a great national issue! [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] And I now hear the New Democracy applaud with passion for its Chief for these issues, for which she has a historical responsibility for creating the problem. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] And now, in the critical hours, with the great backwardness of the New Democracy's positions in recent years and the constant transformations and mutations, it has not helped to create a national line and has allowed Mr. Tsipras to negotiate himself in secret. We have stopped, through this Step, the agreement with the name of the Republic of Iliden, and we will continue to work systematically to find an integrated and sustainable solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u156	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, twenty-two students and students and four educational attendants of the Nafpaktos School of Nafpaktos Elias. The House welcomes you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u157	Mr President, not the Nafpak of Elias.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u158	Rupakiu. Excuse me! Did you see what confusion I had, Mrs. Bakoyannis? I can't read from the confusion! I was surprised! We therefore welcome the students from the Primary School of Rupakion Elias. Guys, excuse us! Be well! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Stavros Theodorakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u159	In these days when I saw the Cyrils, the extremist titles on the sites and on the newspapers, with corresponding political statements, I was thinking whether we could move beyond the titles, beyond the slogans, if we can move beyond the simplistic, manhattan shapes of good and evil, of white - black, of yes and no. And I'm afraid we can't. They ask us: are you in favour of resolving the Macedonian? You're with Mr. Tsipras. Are you voting against the prerequisites? You're with Mr. Mitsotakis. You support Mr. Mitsotakis and the New Democracy. But politics - at least politics as we mean it - will not be enclosed in camps and is not guided by flags of convenience. And of course, as far as I am concerned, it is not guided by the instincts of political survival, because I have decided, in political terms, that I will not become a political cockroache. To say this more accurately, I will not sacrifice any of my beliefs just to stay in this Chamber. It is not my concern, therefore, that the so-called political cost, which has been discussed very insectly in the last few days in the corridors of the Parliament, and especially at this critical moment in our country, 'I turn my back'. Because, ladies and gentlemen, all the problems, the old and the new ones, are created or not solved by those who have constantly in their minds the party and the political costs in general. The chain is as follows: Party costs, both on the one hand, populism and, on the other hand, conservative costs. All those who prosper, perhaps, and with little thought at some point on the sirens of political costs, should know that they eventually have the conservatism and populism that was devouring the country. So let's go to the arguments. The river from the first day of its establishment is in favour of the Macedonian solution. I will not say the old known and discussed, that Macedonia is a great geographical area that does not belong to all of Greece, that all the countries of the world now, all our allies are almost Macedonia and we pretend that we do not understand. I will say that especially today is a good deal of agreement with our neighbours, not to give them a package to the Turks. To give them our hand, to help them become members of the European Union in ten - twelve years - because it will take so long - and make Thessaloniki a business capital in the Balkans. The Tsipras deal...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u160	You should go to Thessaloniki and say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u161	You're welcome, Mrs. Marcus.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u162	I circulate a lot more often if you dare and speak. But the responsibility is not yours. They're the ones who took you. If you dare and speak, then, I tell you that I am circulating not in the living room of Thessaloniki, but in the streets of Thessaloniki. [[Applause]] Your tall heels don't reach the streets of Thessaloniki! It's known. You've never been photographed in the streets of Thessaloniki, but only in the living room. Rejoice with your new allies and enjoy it!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u163	...(not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u164	Please, Mrs. Marcus!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u165	Take the... and go to Thessaloniki to listen to people's views about what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u166	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u167	Please! Why don't you stop? Please! No screams, no holidays.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u168	Instead of being ashamed and hiding behind the columns, you have the daring and you speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u169	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u170	To... to erase, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u171	I didn't hear it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u172	Did you ask for a loan from New Democracy?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u173	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u174	Well, let's keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u175	It's not right here to talk about sexism. You're SYRIZA's witnesses.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u176	Delete. Mr. Georgiade, please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u177	Take it off! Take it off...!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u178	I didn't hear that. The... is deleted from the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u179	Mr. Georgiade, whenever you want, we can have a talk about sexism. I can do with you any conversation you want, even about sexism.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u180	You're welcome. That's not what we're talking about. The rest of the controversy is political.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u181	So I was thinking of what we are talking about, what we are concerned about. And I said that we should give our hand, help our neighbours become members of the European Union - whenever, because of their own decisions - and make Thessaloniki, which is not afraid of Thessaloniki, which dares, a business capital in the Balkans. The Tsipras Zaef agreement is therefore a necessary first step. It has weaknesses and we will be given the opportunity in the next few days to discuss them. But it's the step we have to take. The excruciating reactions of nationalists in Skopje testify that we are on the right track. The positive statements, which I imagine you have all recorded, to our country by political actors at our northern border, which are currently fighting this apparent agreement today, show that we are on a first road that can lead us to coexistence as we want, without alutisms, without hostility. If Zafe succeeds and convinces our neighbours, the citizens, to settle on the side of the deal, the frustrations and hostility dictated by the nationalists, will end. But I will not go any further on this, because I imagine that in the next few days we will have a lot to say, many texts to read and think about our mistakes in order to see how we can go ahead with this story. Let us now refer to the prerequisites. I fear that what you will hear from now on, Prime Minister and gentlemen of SYRIZA - ANEL, you will not like it. I begin with a proposal that I saw a little while ago in the social networks that said that, as you say, with the memorials and you will have time, it is time to issue a brief interpretative dictionary, with your signature, for all the things we have been living on, for the memorandum that has become a support programme, for the troika that has become institutions, for the maiden Merkel that has become an open-minded Chancellor, for the gauders who have become technical staircases, for the loan sharks that have become partners, for the reductions that have become remodelling, for the cut that has become automatic financial regulation of increased guarantees and for the ministries that have become 'HILTON'. You'll tell me that all this is old, that all this is history and that you somehow took your lesson. Oh, no. My view is that all of this will not become a story if you do not admit your error. I fear, in fact, that it is not a mistake, but it has been and has been a plan to deceive voters and people. And today that the country needs to be prepared to organise an investment, a productive take-off, the gentlemen of SYRIZA - ANEL, you are wasting your time, among others, on ruffles and ruffles. As our research reveals, in every month that the public bodies are growing. In 2015, we had a thousand two hundred and ninety-five public enterprises in every form - I am talking about legal persons - and today we have a thousand and eighty-five public institutions. Many bet that by approaching election day, the final number of civil servants will touch the nightmare limits of one million in 2009. The party state, therefore, instead of weakening, changing labels and expanding. Yesterday, George Amyras presented information on the outrageous pay of your own Golden boys of the supermarket. You heard them. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board received 34,000 euros for seventeen meetings, i.e. 2,000 euros for each meeting, while the members of the Board of Directors received EUR 1 000 for each meeting. We also revealed the contracts with various consultants. One is rewarded with 3,000 euros a day, the other with 1,500 euros a day, the third with 1,400 euros a day. And it's not the exception to the rule. I'm afraid it's an excellent rule for those who serve you. We also know that the troika has sent a charming and effectively suspended the selection procedure of the seven seven special and sectoral secretaries, because it was clear that moleculosis would favour your party friends and instructed the French experts - look out! - to create new rules and new notices. Moreover, of the twelve new Directors-General of the Ministries, only four, as you know, have been chosen on objective criteria. All the others were selected from cannabis and interviews. To sum up, irrationalism, ideologies, amateurism nests in the inner parts of the shape that governs us. It could not be otherwise, because there are no authorities to unite you or even some programme. But, SYRIZA and ANEL are mainly united by the need for power. On August 21, however, fairy tales end. We have to go out in the woods alone. And that concerns everyone, right, left, centered. The distrust of markets towards Greece has already occurred. Ten-year bonds are at 4.5%. And it is not Italy's fault - not to say it - because at the same time in Portugal ten years are permanently at 2%. Distrust is not for the Greeks. Distrust is against a political system and above all against a pelagic government. You're cutting pensions. Promise your pensions. You are voting for an assessment. You're removing the evaluation. You're retreating dignity. You sabotage dignity. Legislative reforms. You're undermining reforms. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the President is ringing.]] Give me two more minutes, Mr President, because we had a delay.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u182	Sure. Regardless of this, you have as much time as you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u183	I would like to point out that the party administration, over-exploitation, weak banks, the front of the insurance company, bureaucracy in licensing, slow-moving justice, the digital divide between us and the European Union continue to be the country's seven weights. If no major decisions are made, Greece will not become the productive, competitive country we want, a country that every citizen will want to live, does not want to leave and others will want to visit and invest in it. There is always one last thing we need to say when we talk about the future of the country and the big decisions. No country is saved if at the end of the day it has not been able to change its education and education system. The low performance of our students and our universities in international evaluation indicators should worry us. The continuing deterioration of higher education, the lack of modern technical education, the brain drain abroad, the skills gap between the educational system and the labour market pose a serious risk, as experts say, to get caught in the category of low-skilled, low- productivity countries and ultimately low wages. Ladies and gentlemen, the economic shock caused by crises can be a challenge for societies. It is enough for politicians and all others who guide or influence the actions and thoughts of society and citizens to show the solutions. As long as a number of politicians are found in society, but also people in society, go against the populist assurances that we have been destroyed. I hope, therefore, that after all this you will understand, gentlemen of the government, and do not ask yourself why we are also voting against this bill. It is a new memorandum, without funding, but with many new burdens on everyone, but above all - and that is what we are particularly concerned with - for those who have left to produce this country. By killing those who produce, however, the country will quickly extend its hand again, begging for help and credit. And I fear that we will not find many members of the European Union at that time. So you will collect from us a 'no' in this bill. We are consistent in our attitude that your economic policy does not help to erupt the country forward. But we will also be here in the next few days to discuss the very important issues relating to national, patriotic issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u184	Thank you very much, Mr Theodorakis. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate will be closed with Mr Tsakalotos and the Prime Minister will then make an intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u185	Mr President, I would like to take the floor for a piece of legislation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u186	Previously and while Mr. Chakalotos comes, Mr. Spirtzis will make one last legislative improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u187	Thank you, Mr President. In yesterday's amendment instead of the word ‘in the provision of the Ministerial Decision may specify the operating framework’ is replaced by ‘the rules of operation may be laid down’. I'm tabling it for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u188	Please share. Instead of ‘function’, ‘operational rules’. He'll share everyone, please. Minister of Finance, please have the floor. Can I get you 15 minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u189	A little more.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u190	I'll put 20 minutes in and get in touch.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u191	It is a lot of issues, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u192	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u193	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my speech with some comments on the JRC's positions, especially after the honour of telling me congratulations on the management of the Greek language, Mr Pafilis. The JRC's argument is that we are actually doing socialism in one class. In other words, we are not dealing with capital and what we are doing is recycle poverty. The issue is, if we do that, how much we do it and if it is part of a strategy, because the strategic issues ahead of us think it is the most important ones at the moment. For the law Stathakis - Katseli we fought for families who have 30,000 euros income and houses worth 230,000 euros. That's about the middle class. We helped the middle class, it's not one of the most middlemen in the poor. In the allowances that will be in rent or in the loan, the subsidy to a person starts from 8,000 euros and is EUR 24,000 for a family with income. That is, however, the 8,000 euros I want you to compare them to the CRL that is for 2,500 euros, so three times above is the 8,000 euros of the 2,500 euros. Does that mean we're only helping the poorest people and getting out of the middlemen? That doesn't mean. It means that we have care for both the poor and the middle people. But let me take your argument a little more seriously. Is it completely wrong to have solidarity within a social bloc? That's what I want to ask you. If you have a point that we are not getting what we could from the rich and that remains within the social bloc that we want to help, is that completely bad, that solidarity exists? How do you imagine a social block is being created to change things? How do we go from point A to point B, without creating this social block and taking care of both the poor and the poorer and the middle classes? I don't have another picture. Your problem, in my view, is that you have a bipolar analysis: or something is fair or something is not fair at all, whether it is capitalist or not it is capitalist. But how do you get from something unfair to something fairer, which is totally capitalist, to something less? You make alliances and you make programs that are aimed at this social block. Mrs Papayannakis told us that in her view the backbone of our development plan is the same as the PASOK and the New Democracy. Really? Do you think that the New Democracy plan is in the forefront of growth rather than the other provisions on social policy, the return of collective bargaining and the increase in minimum wages? [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Can you believe this, which the Minister for Labour has now signed on the expansion, which you said is not done and it's only on paper? When you say that employment policies or even investment are in favour of capital, do you not have any interest in the mixture of investments? Is it not within a strategy to leave the big projects and help small and medium-sized enterprises? I don't understand how you keep in mind building a social bloc if this social bloc can't see anything better. You would be right, although only if neoliberalism was dominant and hegemony. But you're wrong, because he's dominant, he's dominating, but he's not hegemony. And what does it mean to be hegemony? It can also incorporate part of the workers and middle classes. If he was a hegemony, we wouldn't see a Trump, a Sanders, a Brexit, or all that stuff. That's why the Left deserves to have an opinion and participation in the government, precisely because it's the opportunity to build an anti-birth, not to sit and wait. Waiting for what? The absolute catastrophe and suddenly the workers will understand that they must go to socialism if they have not seen what socialism will be like, what does it mean to have a development programme that gives collectives, such as the social economy? That's what you need to think about. Let's go to the bill now. ‘Fourth Memorandum without funding’. First of all, there is funding. We'll see if it's a fourth memorandum, because we're building a buffer, building a stock that's gonna be enough billions in case at some point we can't get out on the markets. But we don't get that funding because it's a horse. The strategy of getting out of the memorandum and being able to self-finance and have higher degrees of freedom is based on it. It's a cavaja. We don't use that money. Thirdly, Mr Theodorakis told us that 4.5% is because it has nothing to do with Italy. Mr. Theodorakis, that's not true. But when the markets know what we'll get for the debt? Does it not make sense with Italy and with uncertainty what is going to happen in a week, on 21 June, that the markets are sceptical? Let's see what we get for the debt, let's see what extensions there will be, what old loan acquisitions there will be, and then what debt restructuring and then talk about it. To discuss, in other words, how to get out on the markets and whether we can. Because all markets believe that if there is a solution, which all institutions say is optimistic, then we will be able to enter the markets, precisely because it will be the debt that is sustainable. I'm not a paradoxist, you know that I've tried at every conversation to go forward. But when I hear from Mrs Gennamas and Mr Mitsotakis that we wouldn't be here if it weren't for SYRIZA's semester, what would anyone say? So, where would Greece be if, in the 40 years before 2009, you hadn't built a party state? Where would Greece now be if before 2009 for forty years didn't your banks have to borrow only your friends? [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Where would Greece be if you had created a development plan? Shouldn't we talk about this for the 50 years? Did the six months make a difference? Fifty years, do we forget about it? You're talking about pensions and how we're the disaster. So, between 2010 and 2014, is it true or is it not that you have cut them 11 times? Is it true or is it not that you cut them up to 50%? Is it true or is it not true that it was 45 billion? But wait, this isn't the most important point either. Do you know what the most important thing is? That you cut all this and the funds were in deficit. That's a miracle! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] A real miracle! That you made these cuts and gave us a fund that was in deficit. Let's go now, Mr. Voridis isn't here on a few specific issues. The first is, as Mrs Gennimata said, that we are committed to the property. The New Democracy and the PASOK were a little more careful than your Chief, because most people didn't talk about a mortgage, they talked about a guarantee. I'm leaving that. Mr. Vorides says I'm not right. I am not right that what is now happening comes from the 2015 Convention. Why does Mr. Vorides say that? In 2015, it was foreseen that ESM might ask for guarantees. The obligation was not then, but it starts now. That was his argument. Because I'm not very good at law school, I asked them to let me know if that was the case. I wanted to share with you what this 2015 contract says: The Member State and the CFS commit that at the request of the ESM they are making additions to this contract which the ESCM considers to be provided to the ESM - it says the third - a guarantee for the Member State to repay the financial contribution from any part of the fund - the later PSF, i.e. the excess - may be required by the ESCM at its discretion. That's what the contract said. So what's the difference? Inside the contract it says that ESM can ask for the bail, and that's what he did. He was at his discretion. So nothing's changed since you signed in 2015. I'm reading another quote. Listen to this quote, Mr. Bourra. (b) undertakes whenever the Member State does not pay any amount and the fund will immediately pay as soon as it is requested as it was the principal, (c) agrees that if any of the obligations for which it has guaranteed has become inapplicable, invalid or unlawful, it will compensate as if it were the independent and principal directly. So, for what you've been accusing us for four days, he's been in the contract. In 2012, the HFSF provided exactly the same guarantees. And you tell us, Mrs. Bakoyannis, that it's a shame. As shameful now it was then.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u194	It's a disgrace. Ninety years we didn't vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u195	Now we're going to a second topic for HIS. Mr. Mitsotakis tells us, and he has an example, that HNPH will grow in Nice. Apparently his dad and his mom didn't tell him not to read newspapers, because only in the newspapers is this evidence. I am able to tell you that there will be no increase in any region of Nice in any way. It would be good if your Chief could wait and see what really happens. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Mr. Mitsotakis says a million people will have increases in HIS. What he didn't tell you is that only a hundred and eight thousand people will have an increase of over 100 euros. And only two hundred and eight thousand people will have over 50 euros. We have heard from various Members and read in various newspapers... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Wait for other areas. So we have heard of increases in fire, overshooted cleansing and overshooting in the people's neighborhoods. I told you that you'd be surprised, because if we look at HIS evidence, the following applies. In Athens, in the 4th, 5th and 6th districts in neighborhoods such as Sepolis, Cologne, Plato Academy, Kipseli, America Square, Patisia we have no increase. We only have reductions and those that do not fall remain stable. In other municipalities in Thessaloniki we have no increase in any zone, but only reductions. In other municipalities such as Stavroupolis, Polichni, Cordelio we have no increase, but only reductions. Are we going to have increases? Yes, we will. As I told you, there will be very small increases of 20 euros or less in some people's neighbourhoods. A little higher will be the increases in areas that have been evidently upgraded in recent years, as indeed in Kallithea, in the area around the “Niaarchos” Foundation. As you can see, this area has been upgraded. A lot bigger increases will be in areas such as Mykonos, Santorini and the 1st apartment of Athens. I consider this normal, because these areas had the same ratio as the people's neighbourhoods in Athens and this was not right somewhere. I want to talk about the medium-term before going to some of the last political interventions. So-called 5.2%, which will be the primary surplus in 2022, we discussed it with Mr Venizelos yesterday. I think I convinced him that it wouldn't be 5.2% of the primary surplus. You'll say it again. Mrs. Fofi Gennimata said that again. I think we've discussed this exhaustively. I would like to say, however, something about Mr Fortsakis, who said about my reply to Mr Venizelos that they are 'alchems of Mr Tsakalotou'. Look: Mr. Fortsakis was a dean at the university that I am a teacher. I think it is really bad for our society for a former dean to say to a university professor who is now a Member of Parliament that he is doing an alchemy. I wouldn't mind if he was telling me about whether or not debt is sustainable, because that is something we're going to discuss and smart people may have a different view. I wouldn't mind telling him what growth in '20s, '21s, '22s, '23s, because that depends on a lot of things, and I may be more optimistic than others. But I mind hearing the dialogue between us, Mr Venizelos, when I try to explain why 5.2% does not apply and then read what has been prepared before, as if he has not heard anything and repeats 5.2%. This is not good for our children who go to university, it's not good for the Greek Parliament. These do not upgrade the debate, because in some things we have to agree on the figures, so that this country can finally go ahead. So what's there? There is no 5.2%, as Mrs Gennimata said, there is no point in saying that countermeasures are less than measures. Not only that, but the countermeasures and the financial area we are building have more than 3.5 billion more than the measures. And not only that, Mrs. Gennamas, because you repeat the mistake. These measures are permanent, they are in advance, they will be in every budget for next year, they will be permanent. No dividends at the end of the year. I hope that this debate will be over so that we can discuss other issues. You will remember that in my previous speech in plenary I had a little troubled PASOK with a story from the book of Vassilis Vassilikos called "Glaukos Thrassakis" about a lamp in a folklore that no one looks at because it doesn't cross the road. Because PASOK thinks I'm targeting it, three hundred pages after that story in the same book, there's another story, which I think has more to do with New Democracy and I'd like to share it with you. This story is about a lady who goes to expensive shops and cares for her at the store. Why are they taking care of her? Because he has bags from other expensive shops. So they see this lady who has the bags from the expensive shops saying that "this woman will pay a lot, so we need to take care of her, take care of her." We learn from this story, however, in Vassilis’ excellent book Vassilikos that this lady in these bags has no clothes from the other expensive shops. Either they're empty or they have rags. In other words, let me say it under the terms of linguistics, this is where we have a meaningless meaning. I mean, we have the signal that here is something expensive inside without the substance. That's what we got. Now you of the New Democracy have your own bags, going abroad and Greece. One of these three bags is liberalism, the second of Europeanism and the third is anti-popularism. In fact, you were talking about Mr Venizelos a year ago when there was a block of these powers, pro-European, liberal and anti-popular. The difference with the history of the King is that your bags are now transparent. People see what's inside. You can't make fun of yourself. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Because we see that, instead of liberalism, there is homophobia, which you cannot support any liberal decree on homosexuals and people with other sexual priorities. We see that while in Europe we are admired by how we managed immigrants, you say that you will take us to a special court on how we used immigrants. You cannot understand what air Europe has taken, which is a pro-European Europe with Sanchez, which we all had to applaud in this House for what it did, which took migrants. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] So liberalism can't be empty the bag. He has obligations. With regard to Europeanism and the fact that you are Europeans. Do you really think that Mr. Mitsotakis has won with his move to reproach the government? Will Europe's leaders say 'bravo, will a Europeanist, a man who comes here to solve problems'? Is that what you think his name will be? Everyone will say to him: 'End of all, twenty-eight years later, a man of counterpopulation instead of supporting the government who is trying to solve it...'? Is that what you're waiting for? Can I talk to you a little more about Europeanism? Where's your Europeanism? The European People's Party does not agree with McCron on his agenda. You, where are you Europeans, what is your position? Tell me about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u196	What do you know?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u197	I have caused you, Mr Tasoula, many times to tell me what you say about the banking union, what you say about the larger budget, to help the countries of the south. Lots of times! You have no opinion on this or are afraid to express it. But me and the others don't know what your expression is. And now we're going to anti-popularism. Stavros Theodorakis said that well. Let me say it with my own words. Anyone in Thessaloniki who says it will be the capital of the Balkans and does not want friendly relations with the northern country is an inconsistent populist. Because there is no possibility for the development of northern Greece, for all the counties of northern Greece, unless there are good relations with the northern country. You know that inside of you. The businessmen in Northern Greece know that too. They know it up to their bones for twenty-eight years that, if there were this solution, there would be many businesses that would not have been closed down, there would be many companies that would not have red loans, there would be many children who would not be unemployed. Because we are both Europeans and anti-liberals and liberals want a co-development with these countries so that this economy can change its way.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u198	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u199	Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard laughs, but I want an answer. Without friendly relations with the northern country, will Thessaloniki really be the capital of the Balkans in energy, transport, trade? Will it really be? You can answer that tomorrow or the day after tomorrow when the debate is taking place. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no argument we have heard in the last eighteen months and it has not collapsed. I remind you very quickly. I need a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u200	You have two minutes, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u201	It's collapsed that there's going to be a cutter. It has collapsed 'you will not reach the targets'. It has collapsed 'you will not go out on the markets'. We've already been out two and a half. It has collapsed 'you will not get anything for the debt'. The fourth Memorandum has collapsed. Nowhere is there a fourth Memorandum. No one says it except for you. I don't think in your heart you don't even believe it. I'll say it maybe for the last time, but I'm afraid it won't be the last. It is time to discuss seriously the future of this country. This strategy you've done to make Mr. Georgiadis and Mr. Voridis happy to tell me about everything - does not come out. You'll rally the nucleus of the New Democracy and this is a very low ceiling. You should have looked a lot higher than that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u202	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, you have the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u203	Ladies and gentlemen, I have asked for the floor because I feel that today this sitting and this vote have a historic character. Because this is the last sitting and the last vote after eight years that we have been voting in this Chamber for a law which is not the result of the choices, if you wish, on your own initiative of the government, of whatever government, but the result of the negotiation with the institutions, which have been in very close contact for eight years, literally leading the moves of all the Greek governments with the memoranda resulting from the bankruptcy of the country. So this meeting has a historic value. This is the last time, we are voting on the latest measures of the last evaluation, the last support programme of the country, and I believe that this in itself is a fact of historical importance that is hopeful to all of us. We have honoured our commitments, the credibility of the country has been restored to European partners. Greece finalises its support programmes in August. We have faced all this - I admit - great challenges. We met in front of difficult decisions, we made tough decisions. We faced, if you like, and historically issues, which have troubled Greece for many years. We have moved on to difficult reforms, many of them necessary reforms and others that included the sperm of injustice. But I believe that at the end of the day both the historian of the future and the people who will judge us all - and we are all judged - for our choices, will decide that we have done well. Allow me to say a few words not of appreciation, but - if you would like - a few words of comparison about where we were in January 2015 and where we are today, at the last turn before the end of this long period that each of us and the last Greek citizen will want to forget soon. We have received a country with a licence of funds, on the verge of bankruptcy after a five-year period, but in support programmes - nonetheless, except for budgetary objectives - and we have achieved great difficulties and hardships and difficult decisions over three consecutive years not only to catch the programme's budget targets, but also to have over-performance with these objectives. We have received an economy in a continuous recession, despite the fact that it was for five consecutive years in support programmes, two in a row. This year for the first time since 2008, significant growth was recorded in 2017 and 2018. In the first quarter of 2018 we had a growth rate of 2.3%, almost twice the size of the euro area as a whole. We received a country, deliberately, with completely empty funds, which currently has liquidity reserves and access to the markets. We have received a state that spent European funds, European funds, to serve 'friends' and cowardly interests of the then government regime, and today we are congratulating everyone in the European Union and, above all, Jean-Claude Juncker, from this point of view, because we have managed the country to be the first to absorb European funds, both in the context of the Cohesion Fund and in the context of the programmes for the Junker programme. We received a country in which, in the conscience of the middle Greek, the word "reformation" was identical to the word "cut-off". And today we are at the point where major structural reforms have taken place, which had never made progress in this area, with brave decisions and we are in the first positions of the OECD in the list of countries with the most important reform work. We have received a country that has experienced international isolation and today restores its international, leading role both in the Balkans and in the fragile Southeast European region. We are, ladies and gentlemen, just before a critical meeting of the Council of Finance Ministers of the Eurozone, the Eurogroup. All parties agree that Greece has fully respected the agreed and all parties recognise that Greece is no longer the lasting problem and that it has become part of the solution in Europe and not part of the problem. They admit that we have placed order on our finances, that for the first time we have a development plan in the medium term with the beginning, mid-term, end and goals to exploit the competitive advantages of the Greek economy and that all sides work to ensure a solution within the framework of the Eurogroup's decisions last year on debt write-down, debt relief, a solution which will make Greece's access to money markets after August 2018, which is definitely coming out of the programs, stable and lasting. Both I and the financial staff are convinced that this solution will be found, mainly because it is a common will for everyone to be found. At this point I would like to express my thanks publicly for the extremely hard and painful work that both the Minister of Finance and the Deputy Minister, Euclid Tsakalotos, George Juliarakis, and the Deputy Minister of State, Dimitris Liakos, have done. It's the hardest job maybe. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Many times they have been in major conflicts, conflicts, so that we can find the best solutions that will lead us to the successful completion of the programme with the least possible loss or, otherwise, with the greatest possible protection for the interests of those social categories and forces that we have been here to protect. Greece therefore reaches the end of a long, difficult and painful route. The end of the crisis, Greece's net exit from the memoranda and Greece's success is today recognised throughout Europe as not only a success, but it is a great European success and, indeed, in an unstable international environment, where Greece contributes so that Europe is an area of stability. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that this House over all these three years has been faced with major challenges many times, the Members of the government's majority have been in great challenges, have met, have done their duty, and I believe that today's ending, that today we are coming out of the crisis, in August, is largely due to your own efforts, your own participation, your support, your own support, your own vote, a painful and difficult effort that I want to recognise to everyone and every one of you personally. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I won't be long. After all, in the next two days, we will have the opportunity to talk a lot about the substance. But I just want to say a few words. I have heard Mr Mitsotakis' theatrically planned speech on the predetermined statement of censure. Mr. Mitsotakis has chosen today to become a sad liar of the "real" leader of the New Democracy - who is Mr. Samaras - and Mr. Samaras, former Prime Minister, who built his entire political path and his entire political career by selling false overpatriotism on a matter that has been a wound to our foreign policy for twenty years, on the name of our northern neighbours, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. And that, although he was the first to officially as Foreign Minister, then replacing Constantine Mitsotakis, on 2 December 1991 at the Council accepted in an official text of the then EEC that the neighbour should be recorded under the term 'Macedonia'. It was him who accepted and was, of course, the first to give birth to this problem, when much later - I am not saying it, because you are shouting at testimonials about interviews by the late Constantine Mitsotakis, you see that - on 16 December 1991 - at the critical meeting of the Foreign Ministers at the time of the EEC, when we discussed the independence of the former socialist democracies of the former Yugoslavia, Croatia and Slovenia, it did not raise any question in order to make a decision that Greece was not in agreement at that time, and the Germans and other countries were pressing on what this country would call itself. Then Constantine Mitsotakis described him as "immunerable". So this man, who has a great responsibility for the birth of this problem that agitates our foreign policy, is the one who later had the courage to raise the flag of overpatriotism and then to drop the government of Constantine Mitsotakis. And today he is the one who, presenting as a superpatriot, comes and portrays the guardian of the national values of the late Constantine Karamanlis and the late Andreas Papandreou, when in 1994 having founded the Opening Policy Party rampantly attacked both, then Prime Minister Andreas Papandreou and President of the Republic, Constantine Karamanlis, on the issue of Skopje, asking to leave from active political action. Because Greece, she said, cannot have a leadership tired and must run forward. And it is, of course, the same thing that he had forgotten, when he later became Prime Minister, because his government - and rightly so - through its representative, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Venizelos, at the United Nations Assembly, presented the official national position and the Samara Government, which was obviously a complex name under the term 'Macedonia' with a geographical definition of erga omnes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u204	Will you say anything about Kammenos?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u205	Please! Patience. Don't interfere.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u206	Mrs. Vuldesis, be patient. Two days here we'll have a chance to speak with names and addresses. I'll talk to you all. You're not getting away with it these two days. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] So today, ladies and gentlemen, because it is time to shoot and sometimes history repeats itself as a prank, Mr Samaras puts in hostage another Mitsotakis, Mr Mitsotakis, and it leads him to a position and attitude, which I believe is inconsistent with his previous positions, but that is his topic. Most of all, however, it leads him to a behaviour of institutional retreat, and that is the worst. Because engaging the institution of the President of the Republic in choices limiting what the Constitution of the country lays down is an institutional acrobatic that no one has the right to attempt. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Mr Mitsotakis, therefore, the motion of censure you are tabling today in my Government is welcome. I welcome her. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And if it didn't exist, we should invent it. It's a very important gift you give me at this critical moment. It is of first order, I would say, an opportunity, so that these two days we can speak with names and addresss who gave what and when, for who won and gave to this great story that has been arousing us for twenty-six years, but also a little more, because concessions and mistakes have been made since the 1970s, to be in this position today. So we'll see you all with names and addresses for who won and who loses, who wins and who loses, who brings back the history of ancient Greek Macedonia and its symbols and who once delivered the name "Macedonia" for internal use. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I'll see you around. You're not getting away with this! Because trade in patriotism and patriotism on the left-wing side will not be yours here, Mr Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u207	Kammenos...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u208	Mrs. Vulture, please! Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u209	I shall close, Mr President, with just one phrase.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u210	Kammenos north or south Monaco? I'm asking!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u211	What are you talking about? Don't interrupt. Please. What's wrong with Mr. Kammenos? Quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u212	I shall close with only one phrase, because I believe that the next two days from now will already have the opportunity to speak in detail with time. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter page 223a]] [[To enter page 224a]] [[To enter page 225a]] [[To enter page 227a]] Mr Mitsotakis said a phrase down from the Step. We're going to be confronted, he says, with history and our responsibilities. We shall, therefore, be reproached, Mr Mitsotakis, both with our history and with our responsibilities. Only you this weekend will be measured with your family political history. And I am very afraid that in this personal trial you are at risk of being impressively insecure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u213	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles, amendments and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance is finalised: 'Provisions for the completion of the Financial Objectives and Structural Reform Agreement - the medium-term framework of the Financial Strategy 2019-2022 and other provisions'. We are entering the vote on the principle, on the articles, amendments and on the whole, and they will be voted on separately. Ladies and gentlemen, a request has been made for a roll-call vote of Members of the New Republic on Articles 109 and 119, the text of which is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u214	I will also read out the list of signatories for the roll-call vote to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mr. Stavros Christos. Here you go. Mr. Tsiaras Konstantinos. Here you go. Mr. Hatzidakis Kostis. Here you go. Mr. Charakopoulos Maximus. Here you go. Mr. Georgios George. Here you go. Mr. Kyriazidis Dimitrios. Here you go. Mr. Andrian John. Here you go. Mr. Koukodimos Konstantinos. Here you go. Mr. Buras Athanasios. Here you go. Mr. Voridis Mavroudis. Here you go. Mr. Kedicoglou Simos. Here you go. Mr. Koutsubas Andreas. Here you go. Mrs. Karamanlis Anna. Here. Mrs. Marcus Catherine. Here. Mr. Yakoumatos Grassos. Here you go. Mr. Kefaliannis Ioannis. Here you go. Mrs. Vultish Sophia. Here. Mr. Dendias Nikolaos - George. Here you go. Mr. Antoniadis John. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for the roll-call vote of Members of the New Democracy. A request has also been made for a roll-call vote by Members of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR in principle and on Articles 60, 80, 109 and 119 of the draft law, the text of which reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u215	I will also read out the list of signatories for the roll-call vote to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mrs. Fontaine. Here. Mr. Arvanitides Georgios. Here you go. Mr. Venizelos Evangelos. Here you go. Mr. Ahmet Ilhan. Here you go. Mr. Gregorakos Leonidas. Here you go. Mr. Theocharopoulos Athanasios. Here you go. Mr. Karras Georgios - Dimitrios. Here you go. Mr. Kegeroglu Vasiliou. Here you go. Mrs. Kefalidou Hara. Here. Mr. Koutsoukos Yiannis. Here you go. Mr. Kremastinos Dimitrios. Here you go. Mr. Constantinople Odysseus. Here you go. Mr. Constantopoulos Dimitrios. Here you go. Mr. Loverdos Andreas. Here you go. Mr. Maniotis John. Here you go. Mr. Barriots Constantine. Here you go. Mr. Papatheodoros Theodore. Here you go. Mr. Scandalidis Konstantinos. Here you go. Mrs. Christophilopoulou. Here. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure to vote for a roll-call vote on the PASOK - DIMAR. In addition, a request has been made for the roll-call vote of members of the People's League - Golden Dawn in principle and on Articles 23, 69, 109 and 119 of the draft law and on Amendment No 1621 and special number 251, the text of which reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u216	I will also read out the list of signatories for the roll-call vote to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mr. Michaeliakos Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Aivatidis John. Here you go. Mrs. Vlachos Salvation. Here. Mr. Germenis George. Here you go. Mr. Gregos Antonios. Here you go. Mrs. Zaroulia Helen. Here. Mr. Ilioopoulos Panagiotis. Here you go. Mr. Caracos Evangelos. Here you go. Mr. Cassidy Elias. Here you go. Mr. Kouzilos Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. John Rabbit. Here you go. Mr. Barbarousis Constantine. Here you go. Mr. Panayotaros Elias. Here you go. Mr. Poppa Christos. Here you go. Mr. Shahinides John. Here you go. Mr. Hajisavasavas Christos. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure to request a roll-call vote of members of the People's Association - Golden Dawn. A request has also been made for a roll-call vote by Members of the Communist Party of Greece in principle and on Articles 70, 109 and 119 of the draft law, the text of which reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u217	I will also read out the list of signatories for the roll-call vote to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mr. Koutsoubas Dimitrios. Here you go. Mrs. Papapaiga Alexandra. Here. Mr. Bardale Athanasios. Here you go. Mr. Giokas John. Here you go. Mr. Delis John. Here you go. Mrs. Canelle Liana. Here. Mr. Karathanasopoulos Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Katsotis Christos. Here you go. Mr. Lambroulis George. Here you go. Mrs. Manolaku Diamond. Here. Mr. Moraitis Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Paphis Athanasios. Here you go. Mr. Steerios Constantine. Here you go. Mr. Synthrates Emmanuel. Here you go. Mr. Tassos Stavros. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for a roll-call vote of Members of the Communist Party of Greece. We shall compile the four roll-call votes on the principle and on Articles 23, 60, 69, 70, 80, 109 and 119 and on Amendment 1621/251 of the draft law, for which a roll-call vote has been requested in one. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u218	The House unanimously agreed. We are therefore adjourned for ten (10') minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u219	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. An electronic roll-call vote will take place at the outset and on Articles 23, 60, 69, 70, 80, 109 and 119, as well as on Amendment No 1621/251 of the draft law, and following the announcement of the result, we will proceed to the vote on the remaining articles of the bill. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u220	Ladies and gentlemen, while the vote is taking place, I would like to make a statement to this House. I would like to inform you that letters or faxes have been sent to the Bureau by colleagues, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure of the House, to which they give their vote. These votes shall be communicated and taken into account in the count, which shall be followed. The letters, which were sent to the Bureau by colleagues, under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, are recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u221	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that a letter by Mr Constantine Javara, who knows that he will be absent from the vote and that if he were present, he would vote 'no'. This letter, which expresses the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, but is not taken into account in the counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u222	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u223	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House of thirty-two students and students and four educational attendants from the 16th Municipal School of Chania. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] You have come to a stage in the process in which the debate was just over. A first vote was taken on the articles to which the roll-call vote had taken place through the electronic system and will now be followed by the representatives of the parties, with the guidance of President Kourakis, the vote on the remaining articles on what each party says. Unfortunately, you are a little late in the debate that took place earlier on on the debate on this subject. This afternoon we will have a debate on a motion of censure tabled by the New Democracy against the current government and lasting two days. This is the stage of the process we are in. We welcome you from the heart. You'd better watch a more vibrant process. It couldn't be done differently. Thanks, guys. Mr Kourakis, when the Members of Parliament are gathered, who had made an omission in the vote in the public opinion and perception, and since the representatives of the parties are present, I would ask you to speak orally - to be clear and to be recorded in the Minutes - to call their names so that they can vote in order to complete the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u224	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reiterate that there has been a difficulty in the system. It was not known that other articles, apart from the first screen, were followed by other articles. Therefore, some voted only on what was appearing on the top of the screen and now each one of them will be asked to state orally - they are detained in practice - what it intended to vote on the other articles that followed: [[The names of these Members shall be read in order to cast their votes.]] Mrs. Anagnostopoulos Athanasia. Mr. Treasury John. Mr. Theonas John. Mr. Karagiannis Ioannis. Mr. Castaris Starios. Mrs. Kozobol Panagiota. Mr. Red Vassiliou. Mr. Kourakis Anastasios. Mr. Kostopanagiotou Elias. Mr. Balaouras Rissos. Mr. Balomenakis Antony. Mr. Blonde Andreas. Mr. Papadopoulos Athanasios. Mr. Papaliou George. Mr. Stathakis George. Mr. Syrian Antony. Mr. Triantafylides Alexander. Mrs. Fotio Theanoux. Mr. Simorellis Christos. Mr. Katsaniotis Andreas. Mr. Balafas John. Mr. Karamanlis Konstantinos. Mr. Salmas Marios. Mrs. Vagonakis Evangelia. Mr. Parastatides Theodoros. Mrs. Lebanese Zoe. Mr. Kouzilos Nikolaos. Mr. Skrekas Konstantinos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u225	Ladies and gentlemen, since this procedure has also been completed, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the electronic roll-call vote. A total of 298 Members voted at first. In favour of the principle of the draft law, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 154 MPs. Against the start of the bill, i.e. 'OH', they voted 144 MPs. 'PARON' voted no one. Consequently, the Finance Ministry's draft law: ‘Provisions for the completion of the Financial Objectives and Structural Reform Agreement - Medium-term Financial Strategy for 2019-2022 and other provisions’ were accepted in principle by a majority. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 23. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 155 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', 128 Members voted. 'PARON' 15 MPs voted. Article 23 was therefore accepted by a majority. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 60. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 155 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', they voted 143 MPs. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 60 has therefore been accepted by a majority. Article 69 has adopted a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 155 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', they voted 143 MPs. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 69 was therefore accepted by a majority. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 70. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 152 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'OECD', they voted 146 Members. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 70 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Article 80 has adopted a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 154 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 144 Members. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 80 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Article 109 has adopted a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 154 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 144 Members. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 109 was therefore accepted by a majority. Article 119 has adopted a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 154 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 144 Members. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 119 was therefore accepted by a majority. Amendment No 1621/251, as amended by the Minister, voted in total 298 Members. In addition to the amendment 'NAI', 154 Members voted. On the amendment, i.e. 'NO', they voted 144 Members. 'PARON' voted no one. Therefore, Amendment No 1621/251, as amended by the Minister, was accepted by a majority. Ladies and gentlemen, Members' positions, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the Minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u226	Ladies and gentlemen, we are now voting on the remaining articles and on the whole draft law. The vote will again be taken electronically by the rapporteurs and special speakers of the bill. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u227	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u228	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u229	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Provisions for the completion of the Agreement on Financial Objectives and Structural Reforms - the medium-term framework of the Financial Strategy 2019-2022 and other provisions’ were accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of the articles and the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u230	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u231	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that the Chief of Staff and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the Members of the Group of Parliament have tabled a motion of censure against the government, in accordance with the provisions of Rule 84(2) of the Constitution and Article 142 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. It is noted that the motion of censure is signed by the required minimum number of Members as provided for in Rule 142 of the Rules of Procedure, i.e. at least fifty Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u232	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the debate on the motion of censure will begin today at 6 p.m. and will continue tomorrow and for as long as necessary. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S2-commons.u233	With the consent of the House at 17.10 p.m. the sitting is closed for Thursday 14 June 2018 at 18.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: discussion on the motion of censure against the government, submitted by the Chief of Staff and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis and seventy-fifth Members of the Parliamentary Group, in accordance with Rules 84 of the Constitution and 142 of the Rules of Procedure of the House.
