ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-18-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Friday 19 October 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 66/16-10-2018 by the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: ‘Aids to upgrade the operation of the Academy of Merchant Navy in Kalymnos’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 59/12-10-2018 by the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARMAR Mr Michael Jeleighs to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "The situation of the Greek Sugar Industry (EBZ)". 3. The Question No 53/11-10-2018 by MP Pireaus of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: ‘Strengthening the Port House with a view to establishing an EOZ and an EOG mining of hydrocarbons and natural gas’. 4. The Question No 70/16-10-2018 by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "For the disasters of the cyclone "Zorba" caused in the Peloponnese". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 67/16-10-2018 by MP Corinth of New Democracy Mr Christou Dimas to the Minister of Economy and Development, entitled ‘Absorbing the resources of the NSRF 2014-2020’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 73/16-10-2018 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARK Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: "Ireland is entitled to join the universal application of the transport equivalent from 1-01-2019." 3. The 71/16-10-2018 topical question by Piraeus of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Diamantos Manolakos to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "For the catastrophic floods caused in northern Evia". 4. The Question No 72/16-10-2018 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Let a solution be given immediately to the question of the cleanliness and hygiene of schools." 5. The Question No 60/16-10-2018 by Independent MEP II of Athens Mr.Theocharis Theocharis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The procedures for the compulsory education in public and municipal structures are problematic". 6. The 20/3-10-2018 topical question by MP Pireos of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on "Turkish challenging continues in the Aegean". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. PASOK - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject of "Government misinformation that the guarantors of the highly indebted households are protected". 8. The Question No 46/9-10-2018 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "To implement immediately measures to support students who were housed in the fires that were burned and to build new outbreaks". 9. The question asked by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Constantinople to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "The extension of a second phase of the telecommunications distribution network Megalopolis Arcadia". 10. The 26/5-10-2018 topical question by Independent MP II Piraeus Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the "Amendment frozen by the Presidential Decree on Mufts". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Question No 1326/6-9-2018 by MP B' Athens of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Incredible analgesia of PPC against its consumers, accompanied by the unbelievable suffering of PPC's shops". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The third question will be discussed under number 58/11-10-2018, the first question of the Athens Parliamentary II of the Independent Greeks Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Additional need for a solution to the homeless". Mr. Papachristopoulos, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-18-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. I would ask you to extend some time, because it's an explosive and major issue, and I think it's worth it. I would like to say, therefore, that in a society, Minister - and you know it better than me - where the rich become less and richer and the poorer - and I will say for once again that eight people on the planet have assets as much as the poorest half of the world's population, that is, three and a half billion - we are now talking about perversion of reality and not unfairness. Medium, then - especially since the 2008 crisis, which two social groups, the middle and the working class, paid the ten trillion that this crisis cost at the same time as a few were getting rich - the homeless thing comes to the surface. I know your sensitivity. However, I would like to quote some of the elements that exist, because they do not exist for most of them. So to say, about a hundred million people around the world have no roof. Let me say that in the European Union of twenty-eight million is estimated to be around six million today, and perhaps the number is higher, because it is impossible to record these people with today's data. Let me also say, Minister, that in our country the number is not recorded. Maybe you have more evidence than me. On the basis of the information I have received from the Municipality of Athenians, twenty thousand of the capital's residents are fed for their survival in social infrastructures, without that being the only ones. To say again, because there's a misunderstanding, that 90% of the homeless are Greek and 10% are foreign. We must take this into account. I would also like to remind you that it is not just our phenomenon. Don't get us wrong. It is an explosive phenomenon in Great Britain, in Ireland, and, o of the miracle, in the most prosperous country in the European Union, Germany - listen to the number! - There are eight hundred sixty thousand homeless. A 40% of them are economic immigrants and refugees. And that's in Germany of prosperity! It is therefore not just our phenomenon.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-18-S1-commons.u3	Good. Your question, please, Mr. Papachristopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-18-S1-commons.u4	It is self-evident, Mr President, to ask. It's self-evident! Some people from us go in the evening tired, lie down, take off our clothes and take a bath.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-18-S1-commons.u5	If she's self-evident, we should listen to her.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-18-S1-commons.u6	Here's why it's a social matter of great importance. Maybe it's the next atomic bomb on the planet, Mr. President. Madam Minister, I know your sensations. So what are we thinking about doing for these people? I meet them every day under bridges, from roofs to the Mars Field and go by and say. Again, the numbers are not up-to-date. It's impossible for these people to get together. What does the state intend to do organized for these people? I hold on to the second part of my position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-18-S1-commons.u7	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-18-S1-commons.u8	Mr Papachristopoulos, the timely question you have tabled is indeed documented and timely. Every such time great headlines highlight the issue ahead of winter. Thank you, therefore, for giving me the opportunity to formally tell the House what is happening. The problem is multifactorous, you know. As you said, it is a phenomenon which affects all states, even those who prosper. In Greece, it took the form of an avalanche because of the crisis, but already since 2017, and now after our great research in 2018, I can tell you responsiblely that the phenomenon is in a significant decline. I say this responsibly because research was carried out in seven municipalities for the first time - I have all the information - in a scientific way by a university and in cooperation with all the bodies that have either homeless structures, whether they are following the phenomenon or have masses or anything else. So everyone was involved for the first time. Secondly, it was done with a scientific tool from HICP, i.e. an electronic streetwork recording in a very specific way. This has never been done before, Mr Papachristopoulos, because everything we have heard all these years has been estimates by NGOs or institutes. At a time such research was never carried out. We did it for the first time. The figures are given. They're the evidence of the investigation. However, we have another net in addition to the investigation. We have the 'net' of the CRL. We managed to give the CRL to all the homeless. The homeless man goes to the municipality, I.D.s and we give him the CRL. You need to know this is unique and so I have the CRL number. Also, I know how many responded to the investigation we made in the streetwork that they took the CRL. So we now have a lot of evidence when we interact with the investigation. We will soon have the results that will be communicated to you and also the national promotion. So we will know that in these seven municipalities of one million and six hundred thousand, that is about 15% of the country's population, so much was the projection of the homeless on the road, so many were in structures, so many are in the programmes for housing, reintegration and work, because we are putting six hundred and forty-four people at work right now. [[The end of the speaking time of Mrs. Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I will tell you now, as a result of all this, what we are doing, what we are institutionalising. We are now working on the national strategy for the homeless, which we will present within a month in the House, so that there is now a very specific tool for the homeless with the representations of the homeless and everything. We're talking about a national strategy. She will have the following chapters. The first is the codification of all existing legislation. We've done it. What further proposals are being made in the legislation? We have a big team of law that works on it. Secondly, the creation of an interministerial body that will draw up policy every year under the CYPRUS. The CYPRUS, as you know, is the Governing Council for Social Policy under the Vice-President. The Ministries involved in this body will therefore be the Ministries of Labour, Interior, Health, Migration Policy, Development and Economics. Third: Creating a permanent digital system for recording the constellation. As it was what we did pilots, now we're going to build a permanent digital mechanism. What's he doing? He watches every day, connects all the structures, all the information, not one not knowing what the other is doing and not knowing at the end where the homeless is. So it's a digital tool we're tracking him with every day. In addition, this digital tool, which will be in HICP, will have a record of indicators, that is to say, "Indicators this quarter went there. What's my target? What do I do on the basis of this objective?’. Otherwise, things are not done by saying a lifetime only talk and doing nothing. Fourth, create a register of volunteers per municipality of the country. Because we saw that volunteers in our investigation were excellent. They did a great job. So we need to build a permanent volunteer record to know exactly what's going on with us. Fifthly, I told you about the reduction targets. The state must set targets for reduction, namely: 'Here I am, so I record', 'What do I put in the next three years', 'Where do I get in five years'. There are no such targets. Finally, we will develop a comprehensive policy for the homeless and the prevention of homelessness. I'll come back to them. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-18-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, too. Mr Papachristopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-18-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. I have no hesitation, Minister, to say that you surprise me positively. I'm telling you that sincerely. Because when Commissioner Barnier himself states that we have done almost nothing, that we have done very little for the homeless, I am really surprised at what I hear. I have no reason to question them. That is the reason for my question. Because, as you know, the homeless have neither trade unions nor elections. And I say that to know what we're doing. I, at least, have a question here concerning my constituents I will never do. I don't have that role in the House. I would like you to answer, however, whether you are aware of the special fund proposed by a number of people worldwide and what is happening in Finland, a country that has really been very close to homeless. That's something I want to hear. I would also like you to tell me some proposals that have been made - and I have them before me - to specialise the project. For example, what about public buildings, such as that in Socrates, the 'LA MIRAGE'? What about European resources that finance technical construction projects? Can we use these? Do you have it in your head? Of course, we all agree that the medical care these people, the CRL, the Social Solidarity Benefit - because people do not understand what CRLs are - is a revolutionary application that has come out of the obscurity of many untreated Greeks, which you record. And I say that to know what a social state means. I would like to end by saying this: it is a big deal of what we are discussing. I'll do the poet myself. I think of Ugo's conversation with the "Athens": "It's nothing to die. It's terrible not to live." This is a conversation that Yiannis Ayannis told Gaviria in a dialogue he had with the young "tunnel". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-18-S1-commons.u11	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-18-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Papachristopoulos, you always have a way of sensualizing and encouraging us. Anyway, let's go to the facts. In November we issue - and perhaps this month, because they are ready - two joint ministerial decisions, with the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Finance, of course, on the mechanism that I said to you, namely on how this monitoring and policies are to take place, and another on the interconnection of all actors throughout Greece, so that we can all speak the same language and know what we are doing to us. I told you about the CRL, which, as you say, is a pioneering programme throughout Europe, and it is not just the minimum guaranteed income that Mr Mitsotakis is engaged in - who reinstated it from the drawer - because it has been catching just poverty over the last six months and not on the income side and the tax declaration last year. That's very important. All your incomes are being crossed at the time. Six databases we've interconnected, which you know. This is the great innovation of the CRL. We put the homeless too. So I'll tell you what we're doing right now. Let me inform you that the homeless have been organized in a secondary club. So for the first time the government is getting a interlocutor, so there is a dialogue everywhere. The community centers are the heart of the digital state, so the homeless go to community centers. They have access to all benefits and to anything else at all times. That was the great reform that we did. The New Democracy did not vote for it. Alas! Don't lose the clientele relations by municipality. And don't lose the ruffles by municipality. So community centres are the heart of the digital state. You go there with your AMKA and she tells you everything. What are you gonna get, where you're going, where you're gonna put your father, where you're going yourself, etc. We're improving the homeless structures. You told me about the money we'd get from the MIPs. We make twenty new homeless structures, ten sleeping rooms and ten day centres with money from regional programs. The homeless bus, you know it. We also have supported apartments throughout Greece, which we finance. Today we have seven thousand three hundred thirty-six benefiting in the CRL who declare homeless. Here are the Roma populations who, when they live in impoverished camps under post-translocation, are saying homeless. It's these few settlements, the seventy, I told you they need to be relocated. Our program "House and Work" is an extremely important program, because it not only finds the homeless home to stay, but finds it compulsory for him to work. Reintegration has many stages. You're a doctor and you know that a lot of these people need medical support. They'll be backed up medically. Then they'll get into a house. At the same time, they have to get to work. Here, too, we also have social enterprises, KALOS, Social and Solidarity Economy, the great exhibition in Sophocleous from 7 to 11 November in the stock markets. Because it's worth the CALO and he's on the stock market. Homeless people can do social business along with homeless people and find jobs. Because reintegration is the most important thing there is. Finally, I come to the housing allowance. Mr. Papachristopoulos, the Prime Minister announced it. You will have the pleasure of voting in November, just like the entire House. It's last in a row, but not last. It's a big reinforcement to keep the families at home, not to get out of the way. I could say a lot. We are currently preparing a circular to all municipalities. It's about the preparedness, which is done every year and you know it. We are coordinated by the Ministry by all municipalities depending on weather phenomena, with rooms heated, so that we can be ready for all problems that will be created. Thank you again, Mr President, for the time you have given me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-18-S1-commons.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, thirty-nine students and students and four teachers attending the 1st Piraeus Municipal School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] At this point, I also have the honour to announce to the House that Members of the Democratic Incorporation PASOK - DIMAR Vassilis Kegeroglou, Georgios - Dimitrios Karras, Michael Jeffelis, Theodoros Papatheodorou, George Arvanitides and Dimitrios Konstantopoulos submitted on 17-10-2018 a proposal for a law: “Confidence of professional rights of graduate engineers and other provisions”. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Congressman Koumoutsakos, MP Mr Kerameos and MP Mr Charakopoulos are requesting permission from a few days' absence abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-18-S1-commons.u14	The House therefore approved the requested authorisations. We now move on to the fourth with number 51/9-10-2018, a topical question from the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Athens Parliament Mr. Spyridonos Lykoudis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: 'True tails to the publishing houses of the means of transport'. Mr. Lykoudi, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-18-S1-commons.u15	Minister, I believe deeply in the parliamentary control procedure. For years now, in this House, I have been trying to exercise as much parliamentary control as I can, by choosing, as far as I can, my questions are of essential content and to be challenging for substantial answers. I can assure you that this is perhaps the first time I have been myself, personally, so much in the contents of the question I am asking. I travel to Athens, I use the eight out of my ten subway movements, and I live the insanity in the lines of the publishing, that is, this incredible irrationality and suffering of the Athenian citizens in relation to the issue of their service with tickets. I guess you know that. So you can't live it or you don't know the problem. I am not going to make any kind of introduction, because I want substantial answers on the issues, so that we may be able to help resolve the issues. Also, my question has nothing to do with or willing opposition at this time and especially with regard to this issue. So I'm going straight to the questions: Is there any specific planning by the Ministry in order to implement the measure of the electronic ticket massively, but along with the confrontation of the problem with the long tails? How many automatic ticketing machines are envisaged to operate under the public contract with the company that provides them and how much are they operating? Why does not there be in all active machines the possibility of using a bank card? When will the upgrade of old ticketing machines be completed and why has it been delayed? I have recently followed all your statements, Minister, with great attention, because I was interested in seeing how you deal with this. Why has this delay been delayed and when, in any case, this delay procedure is ending? What is the Ministry's forecast for the abolition of the paper reduced computer terminal and for those who cannot obtain a personalised card? You know what I mean. I read your communication that you are now making it easier with the electronic application etc. Tell me, the one who occasionally uses the subway or any means of transportation and is a retired, is in Patras, comes in once a week to see his doctor in Athens and doesn't want to have a personalized twenty-way card or one month's, for him how do we solve the problem? And he needs a reduced ticket. And finally, how will the problem of reduced staff be solved so that all stations have the necessary staff to better serve citizens? Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-18-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr. Lykoudi. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-18-S1-commons.u17	Mr President, Mr Lykoudi, first of all thank you for the question. There was no need to introduce, because everyone knows when a question has been tabled by you. In other words, you have not shown, even at the points you want to make opposition, that your criticism is bad. The electronic ticket system, unfortunately - and we understand all the reasons - came from a tender, which was structured in such a way that the electronic ticket never applies. I'll tell you on the subject of your question. In other competitive processes, the upgrade of the old machinery was planned - this was done under contract since the 2009 competition - and others were the machines - and obviously the broker - for the electronic ticket system. So you understand that there were other forecasts, two competing companies to build the ticket machines in the same system. After much effort both from the OSCE and the "ATTY METRO", we can say that today they are installed and the old machines are upgraded. Today is the last week to understand. It is therefore also possible to install and upgrade their software in order to serve citizens. Let me give you an update on what has happened all this time: Four hundred and twenty thousand anonymous cards have been made available, because apart from personalized cards there are anonymous cards. Ninety - sixty thousand personalised cards have also been approved. The problem has been identified only in people who do not have digital education, an intimacy if you want to with new technologies, in relation to how we issue a card and notice the phenomenon, which you know, and because of the lack of machinery in the past year, and because of the lack of familiarity, they don't make personalized cards for half a ticket. However, some issues can be tackled in part with machinery. Our goal is that there should be no guise in the funds in the traditional way that we knew or observed the queues for half the tickets, but that there should be personalised cards for all the social policy tickets that have been scheduled for the following simple reason. In this way we avoid unpleasant events that we have experienced in the past, and we also have savings in human resources, which we do not have - if you like - the possibility of a surplus in a guise, when there is no reason for them to exist. So what we encourage the citizens is to make a personalised card. It's too easy now. You don't have to go with one's certificates and wait in a tail to get a personalized card. There is no point in getting a personalised card and costing it EUR 20 or EUR 10 or EUR 5. He fills her as much as he wants from either the internet or the machines he's put in. What we have done, for our part, is after the installation of old-fashioned machinery - the intra-machines that we have been afflicted too much to upgrade, but above all, citizens have troubled - to carry new machinery, to have a more rational distribution at the most mobile stations. Because the second point is that citizens do not go to regional stations, but prefer the central stations of the Constitution, the Evangelism, the Vineyards to issue these tickets. The other thing that we have and will change the pricing policy is that the one-way ticket, one ticket, although it loads - or half a ticket - the citizens because they are not familiar, do not charge it with more tickets so that we can also make savings on these tickets. So our policy is that these tickets should have another pricing policy and that for our country's citizens there should be cards - personalised or unpersonalised - so that services can also be made easier, but above all citizens. Machinery is now sufficient after upgrading the old ones. Where we had three new type machines per station, it is scheduled to be transferred to the main station from one machine, so that we do not notice the phenomenon we have experienced. We have told OSCE to proceed with the supply of new machinery in order to meet the needs of both the three new metro stations at the beginning of the year and, if you like, stops in the Attica region, not the metro but the buses, because the network of sales via the kiosks does not meet the needs of the passenger public and buses. So per settlement we need to have at least one automatic machine so that citizens using buses can charge their cards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-18-S1-commons.u18	Mr. Lykoudis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-18-S1-commons.u19	Minister, in my dentistry, I will say nothing more than repeating a few things through what you said, above all, to repeat them in your dentistry. Because what matters is as many people as they listen to us or they will listen to us with the conversation then uploaded on the Internet, understand a few things. First of all, let me make an observation. It is not only the civil addiction to be served in the central machinery of the center of Athens. I can assure you that there is a line in Kallithea, a line in Placentia and elsewhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-18-S1-commons.u20	At the big stations.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-18-S1-commons.u21	All right at the big stations. Let's get out of the center's logic, because it's not just the center. I went to Placentia and I stayed in line for half an hour. So let's get to grips with something. Is the electronic version of the personalised card for pensioners, students, etc. done entirely in an electronic way? So the evidence submitted electronically, even the photo, doesn't have to be given to any guises? They're going online and the card's coming home without going? I don't do the scumbag. I never did. You know me and I know you. When I entered this room, I assumed that the request was electronically filed, but the data I have to take along with a photo or take the picture in the guise and go to the guise. So, again an hour's waiting. If that doesn't exist now, I want you to tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-18-S1-commons.u22	It used to be. Now it doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-18-S1-commons.u23	There isn't. So everything will be done electronically. Secondly, I would like you to repeat, Minister, if you can and will, that the history of upgrading the old machinery is terminating, that is to say, the network will be filled with machinery more than it is now. Thirdly, from what the President of OSCE, Mr. Revithys, said, twenty-one publishing of thirty in Attica, operates. Is that true or not? Is that over? Is that more of the publications? I would like to ask one last question: is it true what I read, I heard and asked you in my first place, that it will continue not to accept bank cards? Is it also true that they do not accept large notes but only 10 euros? Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-18-S1-commons.u24	Good. Repeat learning mother.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-18-S1-commons.u25	Mr President, I have been consistent in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-18-S1-commons.u26	You are an example to be imitated, Mr. Lykoudi.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-18-S1-commons.u27	Because I am afflicted with the Bureau and I, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-18-S1-commons.u28	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-18-S1-commons.u29	Mr Lykoudis is also asking questions that help to inform the public, which the media should not do as they should. All these problems, Mr Lykoudis, have been solved for months. For months now, i.e. you can submit all the information requested for the issuing of a personalised card electronically. You don't have to stand there for a second. The card comes to the house, the address you have declared. The card is charged electronically as well. You don't have to stand on tail or on a machine if you don't want to. New type machines take a card. Upgrading old-type machines does not accept a card. That's why I'm telling you that some people had designed a system to never apply. The old machines that were upgraded are now installed at ten stations, as defined - it is finished - but they are not accepting a card, so cat was designed. That is why we have asked for 10 machines. Also - because you said - they had designed not to accept these machines as large notes so that they do not have a large tank of coins and notes to give change. It's a wonder, but, unfortunately, that's what we found. And it's not easy, you know, when a competition runs for such systems, go after the body implementing this system, and say "I make a supply of other machinery or a contest that is compatible with the previous ones". It's a process and a painful one. It goes through too many approval procedures - and also from the Court of Auditors - in order to get machines of the same type, to install them and to have no problems with implementation. I would like to say, therefore, that at the moment there are ninety automatic machines and five publishing points on the 1 metro line. Line 1 is the old Kifisias - Piraeus. They've been too limited because of the needs, from what the S.S.S.S.S. administration informs us, the people who are in the publishing room. That is why, if you like, both the stations and hours of the publishing, the guises. And there is no reason to lose human resources there while the electronic ticket is being applied. There are a hundred forty - eight automatic machines, now, and thirteen parts of the version on Lines 2 and 3 of the metro. There are twenty-seven automatic machines and four extradition points on the tram. There are twenty-five automatic machines and thirty-eight publishing points for buses. The seventy-one old-fashioned machines, as I told you, were upgraded and finally installed. And there are five hundred points - sales and reloading in Attica. All these points are trying to make them even more, to have a more rational distribution of new machinery now that they have been upgraded and the old ones, to obtain new machinery. But everyone needs effort and information so that personalised cards can be issued in order to facilitate both the system and the life of the citizens. Let us also say, Mr President, that part of the tram line from the Constitution to the Kosomoulis station, which operates under Fix, will be dismantled tomorrow for quite a long time. I say this, so that it can also be known to our fellow citizens who are watching the Parliament's channel. The tram sections that pass above the bed of Ilissus come out of service, so that the necessary studies and the maintenance work of the closed structure we have in Ilissos will not have any unpleasant event. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-18-S1-commons.u30	The third, with number 1/1-10-2018, topical question for the second cycle of the MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Antonios Gregos to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "About the Museum of Macedonia and other institutions, associations and unions of Macedonia and Article 6 of the Greek-Skopje Agreement", will not be discussed. The second question under number 56/11-10-2018, the first question of the Piraios I of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Nikolaos Kouzilos to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject of "Skopje Lake becomes Thessaloniki on the basis of the Prespecies Agreement", will not be discussed due to the absence of Mr Katrugalos abroad. The second question, under number 57/11-10-2018, is the second time in the Athens of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Eleni Zaroulia, to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "The pogrom against the Greeks in Chimara" will not be discussed due to the absence of Mr Katrugalos abroad. The first under number 65/16-10-2018, a topical question for the second cycle of Parliamentary I Athens, New Democracy, Olga Kefaloyannis, to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on the subject: "The issue of granting historical buildings and archaeological sites to the "Greek Company of Participants and Property S.A." (SPD S.A.)), will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister of Culture and Sport, Mr Myrsini Zorba. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, forty students and students and two attendants of teachers from the 2nd Primary School of Alimos, the country of Thucydides! The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The first question under number 64/16-10-2018 of the New Democracy MP, George Vlachos, will be discussed at the time with the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: “Taking the problems out of the fire of 23 July 2018”. Mr. Vlacho has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-18-S1-commons.u31	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, since it was not possible to inform the committee responsible, which I asked you about one and a half months ago, I asked for this question, because I wanted the most official step, the Stepma of the House, the people of the region affected by the fires of 23 July and the Greek people, to be informed at what stage is the restoration of the damage in the area there. The question, however, has two parts. The first part is: What has been done to alleviate and prevent further risks to citizens living in the region? For example, we want you to tell us how it goes - and if it goes ahead - the collection of asbestos and other environmentally harmful materials. We would also like you to tell us, if they have been removed - and to what extent - the burnt cars and, of course, we would like to know, to what extent the flooding projects, which are absolutely essential to people's lives, have gone ahead. We're forgetting what happened to the fire. It's been a long time since Monday. It's winter coming. I'm on my way to the area, and I see that this logging that started, it's probably stopped. I see no studs have been made. I see that the flooding has not progressed. I see no initiative at all. On the iconic plots the first landslide began. So, here there's a further danger to the people who live there as side losses from this fire. The second part is how the inhabitants of the region will reorganise their lives, i.e. by restoring their homes or being green - which will take the initiative to repair them - or be yellow. And above all, we are interested in this category. In these two directions, therefore, the question is moving. And I really want to hear what phase you're in, to let our fellow citizens know. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-18-S1-commons.u32	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-18-S1-commons.u33	Mr Vlao, first of all, let us say that neither the logging nor anything else has stopped. Work continues in the area normally. And even though, in the letter of the law, these are not the responsibilities of the Ministry of Infrastructure, I will reply to you, because, at the request of the Prime Minister, together with the Minister of State, Mr. Flamourari, we have undertaken to coordinate the actions of the various actors in the region. With regard to relief measures - what the government had predicted and announced - five thousand two hundred sixty-two self-consciousnesses have been committed in affected buildings and a thousand seventy-two re-controls have been carried out in houses that were classified as dangerous and'red', as laid down in the law. That means - I will tell you in a few words - that most of the work has been carried out, not to say the whole thing, in relation to the extraordinary allowances to be paid and planned. A multitude of ministerial decisions has been adopted. The main decision to proceed with the process you are saying is the joint ministerial decision to demarcate the affected area for housing assistance and rehabilitation. Because we are in the region and we are listening, we are talking about people who have been affected and because there are special cases which could not be covered by the original forecasts and have to be covered, the joint ministerial decision has been amended in relation to the restoration of the damage, but also in relation to the rental subsidy and the cohabitation, because the region has specific problems and, if you like, social phenomena that have not been recorded so far by the services. Two hundred and thirty-seven applications have been submitted for the grant and grant of rent - I tell you for information to know them - except for the people who are hosting the structures of the region and the municipalities. Evidently, actions for the felling of urban areas by the Ministry of Infrastructure and actions for the collection of asbestos have been planned and implemented. In particular, the necessary procedures have been carried out for asbestos. Four companies operating in the area have been assigned priority to the buildings that are demolished for the collection of asbestos. In the rest, which are repairable, asbestos will be collected during the construction phase, that's the rationale to do. While we have also made a political decision on the collection of asbestos, even in the 'green' buildings, to clean up the area from the asbestos. The competitive process was initiated in order to bring the logging cooperatives to their attention and to award them contracts. The process has stopped, and a donation has been granted. We have chosen entrepreneurs or companies that do not want to give money to the account to support firefighters to give concrete work of a specific budget. Therefore, the donation of the Kopelou Group was accepted with the assistance of the Ministry to monitor the felling of the area concerned. They have installed and act out of six cooperatives and I think another three - four in West Attica. But they are established, that is, if we go today you will see specific areas assigned to different cooperatives to implement very directly and complete the felling in urban areas. In areas which are not urban and which are the responsibility of the Decentralised Region, I say this in order to avoid confusion in relation to the region, from what I have been informed in time that studies on logging and logging have been completed and that there are competitive procedures in progress, such as the timetable, so that these work can be entrusted to the logging cooperatives or to those who come in. I also know that they had a involvement with a company that appealed, objected, something similar, but I don't know the details. It's not the Decentralised Region in the Ministry of Infrastructure too, so that I can have any further information. Let's tell you that they've been demolished again with donation acceptance, twenty-eight buildings in East Attica by the company "AKATOR", four in West Attica by the company "TERNA" and the demolitions of twelve buildings by J.P.A.A.V. are also donated. Thus a euro has not been granted by the Greek State. Three thousand applications have been approved, where the EUR 5,000 emergency aid and the EUR 1,200 telecommunications allowance from the Ministry of Digital Policy has been granted. A total of EUR 14,610,000 has been allocated to natural persons and EUR 542,300 to seven seven businesses.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-18-S1-commons.u34	How many people did you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-18-S1-commons.u35	Three thousand. Two thousand nine hundred and eighty nine, actually. Thousands of six hundred and thirty applications have been rejected which were not beneficiaries and seven hundred thirty-six applications have been notified and have been notified - the vast majority - to supplement either their tax declaration or other matters, such as, most importantly, where two beneficiaries own property. Now, what else do we do? It's your area, and you care, you're elected, and you've been serving it for so many years. We are preparing all the framework that the area should have for issuing permits for repair or reconstruction of the affected buildings. There, my dear Mr Vlavo, is not an easy equation, an easy job. It is not an easy job, because in the area any distortion can be encountered in the spatial, urban and forest legislation that exists. And we do it in combination, if you like, with the effort to finalise the region's anti-military protection. First of all, I would like to say that we have completed the work of cleaning the ramp downstream, so we will reasonably not have any problem if we have some rainfall effects. But we had the constant problems that are planned by the Ministry. The studies and procedures have been completed and we are at the stage of the adoption of environmental conditions in order to auction the projects. I am talking about the Great Rema Rafina and the streams in the Municipality of Marathon, Nea Macri and Marathon. The periphery has also completed the study of Rema Papa. However, there are signs of what has been done in the region and the restoration of buildings, but also of flood protection, they must now be dealt with. So, in the area, we didn't have forest maps. If I remember correctly, the Ministry responsible puts up the forest maps today or tomorrow. There are areas such as, for example, the Eye that is not woodland and has no problem, but there are adjacent areas in the Eye that need to be dealt with with with the settlements...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-18-S1-commons.u36	Minister, you have a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-18-S1-commons.u37	It's okay, I'm not gonna do a second, just give answers. It must therefore be dealt with in a rational way for settlements so that we can do what we all want. In other words, a urban plan to be implemented in the area, which will have the adequate road network, which will have sufficient roads to ensure that the area that has lived does not relive. We have to go to a logic of having access to the beach that didn't exist. We must go to the logic that we all want to have both the free and public areas that each region should have and not the particular and many other areas which have been built up unreservedly in our country. We also need to address the problem of building within the streams. There are really many problems, both in the effort of both the region and the Ministry, to provide a solution, if you like, of closed pipelines so that there are no unavoidable situations for demarcations that are usually created. This is not always possible, however, because the region has rich archaeological findings and therefore it is not always easy to implement everywhere. I can tell you three hours what we've done in the area. I believe that in the next fortnight the cooperation we have done with the Ministry of the Environment and Energy will be completed in order to make the necessary regulatory acts so that the region - and the'red' buildings as a whole - can be included in the logic of reconstruction.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-18-S1-commons.u38	Mr. Vlavo, do you have anything to add?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-18-S1-commons.u39	Coming back, Minister, in the anti-military warfare. I stress the fact that this is a very crucial issue for the next period. You told me that the logging went on, it stopped, now it's going back. I'm not in a position, and I can't have a picture of the whole area. I see macroscopicly what is happening and what I see - and you have to agree - is that cutting a tree in itself does not say anything if you do not use it, making the so-called corrosion to keep the water. This has not been done, as nothing has happened, I am told, with the four streams within the Vuja and the stream at the border with Rafina, the papa stream that you mentioned, which you said is in the study phase. What study are we talking about? Do you understand what the mountain will come down with the first rains? This year is lacking in vegetation. What is it that will hold all these materials? That's why I talked to you. You also told me - and I know - that a company has taken over the stream in the west and north of Buja. There's now some kind of appeal. There's a delay. But all this does not change the risk of the region. I told you about the greens, I told you about the turbulence. I do not see any initiatives taken in this area. Now you're telling me we've been waiting for CIA. We have the VET - I saw it - with some designations. That's where there's gonna be an objection. You will be told by the citizens of the region, of course. We need to give an explanation. So where this project is, there is a risk that injustices and wrong characterisations have been made. For this project, which has been made public, will there be objections on the part of the citizens, as will the forest maps posted tomorrow? That's the information I've got. Because here we are talking about the Eye in general - I have seen it - that it is yellow and that it is not a problem. But no one can put his hand on fire that this scaffolding, this design that has been made, this polychromatism fairly captures the area. We must protect the citizens who lose their right through the possibility of appealing, in other words objections, to what has been recorded. Also, so far - you know, of course - we've been waiting for this famous FYROM to start reconstruction, repairs. So I come to the yellow houses. The price you give there is 300 and 250 euros. EUR 300 is for the Agency. Because I see from the public that most of the houses marked as "yellow" do not have such a problem with the Agency, but with all the rest, you understand that 250 euros are a trivial amount, I would say, for their repair. Or, as a whole, the amount should be allowed to be used for damage recovery or the EUR 250 should be increased. Here you need to find a solution, because a house repair of EUR 250 is not possible. I would also like you to tell us if you have any picture and some prediction of what will happen with the erosion of the coast. You know there's a erosion problem in the area. This is predicted by experts that they will get worse in the next period and you understand that the risks at this point may be more. In any case - to close, Mr President - there is a need for a speeding-up and more interest, I would say, overall by the government. In order not to be in trouble by saying that one is a matter for the Ministry, the other is a matter for the other Ministry, the other involves the region, the decentralized one, there must be coordination. Coordination that didn't exist at the time of the fire. Let there be at least now the restoration of the lives of our fellow citizens in the wider region. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-18-S1-commons.u40	Given the importance of this issue, we have given plenty of time. The question was about as a question. Two words, Minister, to close.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-18-S1-commons.u41	It's okay. The coordination you're requesting, my dear colleague, has been done. And it has been the first time, which is why I am answering you, not for the responsibilities of the Ministry of Infrastructure, but for the responsibilities of almost all the ministries involved. I'll answer you as Haritsis, as Minister of the Interior. Decentralized has competence to make logging outside the urban areas and to make logging. Is that where we're late? We're not late. Studies have normally been carried out on studs from decentralized, forest services, and competitions have emerged. No service can do anything and obviously not keep the law. When we have appeals or objections, we have a delay, and I imagine it will get over it very quickly, because it has been followed by procedures as far as I know. He also asked the Ministry of Infrastructure for an opinion on how they apply this law, the predictable emergency. So I think that's where we have no problem. It is another piece of anti-military protection due to fires and another part of the anti-military protection planned. So let's go to the second one. In the second they have matured the works at the Great Rema Rafina, the Rema Papa, the six streams in Nea Makri, the five streams in the Marathon, as well as the promelettes for the erosion of the coast at the National Technical University of Athens. He's the ex-Rector, Mr. Mouzouris, and he's completing it. But there, "coats of wood" to flood the buildings that exist did not need the fire. In Rema Papa the houses that exist are inside the stream. There are places in the area where the stream and water pass under the houses or through the courtyards of the houses. So what the region and the Ministry tried to do - otherwise - is not to tear down houses in this area, as we talk about dozens of houses. And you understand that it's not our responsibility when the stream passes through each other's house.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-18-S1-commons.u42	I didn't talk about that, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-18-S1-commons.u43	You're welcome. Put a perfect one, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-18-S1-commons.u44	We're trying to find a solution that will be closed down. But we are trying to find, in at least two cases, a solution with archaeology to overcome it and not go to other solutions. For what you said, we have already signed an amendment to the Staff Regulations for the EUR 300 and the EUR 250 because so far we have only had an invoice for earthquakes and disasters in earthquake buildings. In the fire we have completely different features in the repair. So it's reasonable what you said and it's already done. That is to say, the CIA has already been amended and is to be published.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-18-S1-commons.u45	Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-18-S1-commons.u46	Mr. Vlavo, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-18-S1-commons.u47	For a moment, Mr President, it is important for Mr Vlavo.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-18-S1-commons.u48	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-18-S1-commons.u49	No, we're fine here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-18-S1-commons.u50	I say we finish before the afternoon.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-18-S1-commons.u51	We have done a lot of work, Mr President, for that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-18-S1-commons.u52	I barely recognized the importance of this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-18-S1-commons.u53	We have also done a very systematic work on the roads to be opened. Therefore, in the issue of new permits to come out for the repairs or repairs of houses, distances have been provided to enable us to open up these main roads in the region. That is, if you like, and one of the reasons - and I say it in introductory words - a 'little delay' in the way and the time when new construction licences must be issued. We want the buildings to be re-established, but to be done in such a way that it will not prevent the development of a spatial planning plan that will return to the region to develop tourists.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-18-S1-commons.u54	Thank you. The debate on the topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-18-S1-commons.u55	With the consent of the House at 10.49' the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday 19 October 2018 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, discussion of current questions.
