ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK A sole debate and a vote at the outset, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Migration Policy: ‘Adaptation of Greek legislation to the provisions of Directive 2013/33/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on the requirements for the reception of applicants for international protection (recast, L180/96/29.6.2013) and other provisions - Amendment of Law 4251/2014 (A 1980) adapting Greek legislation to Directive 2014/66/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals in intra-corporate transfer - Amendment of asylum procedures and other provisions’. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 14 May 2018 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting in principle, articles and amendments. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u2	So this House has agreed, so we shall start immediately.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u4	Mr. Varvichiotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u5	Mr President, there has been a very extensive and serious discussion in the committee. But, coming into plenary, we have again found three inappropriate amendments from unrelated ministries, which I would ask the Minister not to accept. The Department of Defense, which is tabling an amendment...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u6	Let me inform you, Mr Varvitsiotis, that Mr Kuveli's amendment has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u7	I'm glad. Because he had a bill ten days ago in plenary.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u8	This amendment has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u9	They are bad legislation, and I would ask that we really stay focused on immigration and not discuss unnecessary amendments, which, after all, have no urgency.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u10	So let's get started. Mr George Pallis, rapporteur of SYRIZA, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The refugee issue is not a Greek issue. It is influenced in a variety of ways and cannot be dealt with exclusively by us, only by legislative and other interventions, despite what is being done. It's a global issue. I'll make a report.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u12	Mr. Pallie, I'm sorry. I would like to make a small point. It's my fault. The electronic records have been opened. Those who wish, until Mr Varvitsiotis completes his own position, will open the electronic system for anyone who wants to register to participate in the debate. I'm sorry, Mr. Pallie. I'm keeping your time. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u13	So I was saying, Mr President, that this is a global issue which is affected in a variety of ways. Yesterday we had an attack on civilians in Gaza. We are saddened by the dead and the too many injured and dismayed for such attacks. Even this is something that can affect the refugee, since, if we look at our wider neighbourhood, we will very easily see how things are affected by the actions of various states. Ladies and gentlemen, the refugee issue comes first on the political agenda, not only in our country. We, with this bill, propose measures in the field of international protection and immigration. Two directives of the European Union are transposed into the Greek legal system. Institutions and procedures are always amended in the light of the universal values and general principles of the international legal order. I fully understand the fact that everyone is expecting this bill to bring drastic measures, which will have immediate effect on the normalisation of the situation, which has evolved rapidly in recent months. But how could a bill stop the refugee flows in our neighborhood? How could a bill stop war, political persecution, poverty and poverty? How could a bill convince Member States of the European Union to share weight and show the necessary solidarity? Because that is the reality that is choking us today, ladies and gentlemen. I recognise that the government is trying to resolve an equation with many strangers and very little stable. So I leave to government officials with confidence in managing the unknown factors either to the east or to the west of our country. But I take responsibility as a Member of Parliament for what is going on within our borders. Over the last few weeks we have achieved a constructive dialogue, through which many improvements and changes have been made in relation to the original bill. A number of suggestions by colleagues have been adopted. Others rejected. In short, the committee did a substantial job, targeted and sobered. So I'm starting with the basics. I believe that all democratic parties agree that no regulation should conflict with the international legal order. In this context, the principles of solidarity, respect for human rights, non-refoulement and the major interests of the child and the unity of the family are a bosom that characterises us. Through this perspective, we see every article, every counterproposal, every view, no matter how many states choose to demonstrate their sovereignty by violating European and international law. Greece will not spread to that, ladies and gentlemen. We are clear in our desire to remain faithful to fundamental humanitarian principles. We do not sink boats, we do not lock people in reception centres, we do not deprive asylum seekers of the right to asylum, we do not feed children in the squares. Instead of these practices, the draft law invests in strengthening the protection of vulnerable persons with disabilities, such as minors, unaccompanied minors, women and families, victims of torture or other acts of violence, and improving the speeding up of asylum procedures. The first part of the bill contains a number of provisions and guarantees for asylum seekers concerning information, care for family unity, education, employment, vocational training, medical care, material reception conditions. It sets out, in other words, the basic principles for the reception and therefore the effective integration of asylum seekers in our country. Many of the guidelines given by the 2013 Directive have already been launched or launched by the Ministry and the relevant ministries. Law No.4375 enshrines the right of asylum seekers to access the labour market. Since 2016, the full training programme for applicants has been launched. It continuously improves and expands. AMKA is also already granted for uninterrupted access to medical care and free access to the National Health System. The distribution of an information material form has already begun with illustrated brochures for unaccompanied minors, a sector that we need to work on, because problems are too much. The third and fourth part of the bill devoted most of our debates to the committee, and the committee responsible - my colleagues had extensive interventions - because of the conflict, which in fact arises between the speeding up of asylum procedures and the safeguarding of the rights of applicants. Ladies and gentlemen, the decision-making in politics also inevitably involves a struggle. A struggle involving practical, political and moral dilemmas. We have the Geneva Treaty and the protocols on the status of refugees, we have the Treaties and the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, we have Dublin III, we have the joint declaration of the European Union - Turkey and the action plan for its implementation. Is Greece committed by all of this? The answer is: yes. Can Greece retreat, trespass contracts and agreements? The answer is again: yes. We are a sovereign state. We have and we exercise primary authority. The possibility of undertaking international commitments is a consequence of the sovereignty of a State. If we don't want to, we don't keep anything. See the United States of America - we had yesterday's example - entering, coming out and abstaining from international conventions, as it suits them. Could we? But is that what we would like, after all? Is it what is best for Greece to say tomorrow, for example, that we are departing from the joint declaration of the European Union - Turkey, - so simply - to say that because of the exceptional circumstances we will not follow the plan agreed with the European Union? In an unstable international environment, with economic, political and military inequalities, legal equality between states is the only counterweight that we have. Support for international legality is a one-way road for Greece. Therefore, we do not go back to Turkey, we do not return asylum seekers until the process of examining their request has been completed. We are observing the geographical restriction, which has been clearly imposed by the Action Plan for the implementation of the Joint Declaration, until further notice. We are speeding up the procedures for examining asylum claims so that refugees, vulnerable groups and non-beneficiaries of international protection can be disembodied. We are concerned about the integration of refugees into the Greek society. Through the second half of the bill, the Ministry of Migration Policy proposes concrete actions. The quality of the procedure to the first degree is maintained, because this protects us from subsequent long-term appeal procedures. The existing staff are growing, creating new organic positions and facilitating transfers from other public services. Measures such as compulsory employment, the simplification of procedures for appointments, productivity controls and the reopening of the former appeal committees strengthen the productivity and effectiveness of the asylum agencies. The procedure for subsequent applications shall be rigorous. Alternative ways of serving decisions on asylum applications shall be provided for where the applicant himself cannot be found in order to serve him in person. The proceedings shall be accelerated, as far as possible, without prejudice to the time-limits for appeals for applicants. In particular, it is particularly important that recorded damages, which have suffered property in Lesvos and Chios, due to acts of refugees or immigrants, are compensated by the Ministry of Migration Policy credits. The relevant municipalities will be financed with the corresponding amounts so that they will then pay them to the beneficiaries. In the meantime, the Ministry has stated its intention to establish a permanent compensation mechanism. It's something we want and we're all asking. With regard to immigration procedures, the harmonisation of the Migration Code with the new framework established following the adoption and ratification of the Agreement results in the simplification of the procedure for issuing a residence permit for exceptional reasons, while the remaining applications, which will be examined as envisaged, are applied in parallel to the simplified procedure, where possible. It is a consistent demand for migrant communities, which are satisfied, for the insurance rights of adult migrants studying in Greece. It restores an injustice in order to enjoy the same rights as national students in terms of their insurance. Our concern is the equality of all the people who live within our country, and that is the second part we have not discussed so much and we need to discuss it. Obviously, we must also see this dimension of immigration policy and not the refugee issue. At the same time, with the second part of the bill, Directive 2014/66 is transposed into Greek law. In this case, we refer to the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals under intra-corporate transfer. The entry into the Union of managers, specialised officials and university-education trainees from third countries is facilitated. We are talking about transfers from companies outside the European Union to entities belonging to them and located in Greece or other Member States. By transferring skills and knowledge of technology and know-how, there is an increase in the scope for growth in our country and in the Greek economy, an economy based on knowledge and innovation. In this sense, the Migration Code is also amended by Law 4251/2014. Labour, insurance and pension rights are established, the right to family reunification is determined, a residence permit is established, with the right to work and a higher period of residence within the European Union. Strict measures shall also be adopted for both the transferred and the host entity in the event of non-compliance with this Law and with Greek tax, insurance and labour law. In any case, it is a temporary immigration regime. Our country reserves the right to determine admission volumes, while the functioning of the regime is under the principle of preference for the citizens of the Union. Ladies and gentlemen, the directives we have now transposed into the Greek legal order concern the common asylum policy and the common immigration policy of the European Union. As a Member State, which welcomes much of the migration flows Greece must also help in this direction with its attitude, but also with its practices. At the same time as other partners choose the path of isolation and introverticity, closed borders and exclusion, we have to prove that solidarity, cooperation, humanism, but, above all, legitimacy is a one-way road. So this draft law, which I am proposing today in plenary, will not give all the solutions, but I think it is an answer which, from now on, must be our direction. I would also like to comment on an amendment tabled. Mr Varvitsiotis was put on a point of order, and quite rightly he said that we were able in this bill to have a very good debate on the substance of the bill and asked that other unnecessary amendments be accepted. Mr Colleagues, it has been tabled by colleagues from the New Democracy, by my fellow Member and other islanders, a specific amendment to the reduced VAT rates. As we have said before, it is dangerous that an issue relating to tax policy should be linked to the refugee issue. I hope that your position relates to this amendment, but it is also an answer to how in a bill that we manage to respect the terms of the right legislation, you come, with an unrelated amendment, to do what you have been blaming us for so long, and that this debate should be done separately. We are coming to the islands for a development conference and the refugee and VAT issue is being raised. We are taking the bill and we are talking about the refugee issue, which is a serious issue, like the immigration issue, and you are bringing us the VAT amendment. When other things come that concern the islands, the ball will go back to the stands! This is a question, therefore, and I hope and wish what you said in your initial position will also apply to your amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr. Palley. The rapporteur from New Democracy, Mr Miltiadis Varvitsiotis, has been speaking for 15 minutes. I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the electronic system is open until Mr Varvitsiotis's position is completed, so that you can register as speakers. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today an issue that has been brought back to the headlines in the newspapers, which deals with local societies and makes our country the subject of criticism and concern for the whole world. It is an issue, which certainly cannot be solved with any legislation, but it is certain that a completely different policy can be pursued to tackle it. We would not make this position, Minister, today, if you in the committee did not say that you were the successor to the policies that have been carried out over the past few years, that you fully embrace the political choices made by the government in 2015 with Mrs Christodoulopoulos, the choices made for entanglement on the islands in Mr Mouszala and, of course, today with the continuation of a policy that does not want to address the problem in the face. Today comes a bill, which should have come a long time ago. It has an accelerating attitude to asylum procedures. Today, as we have arrived, this bill does not address the problems of thousands of people trapped in the islands, it does not address the problems of increased flows in the first quarter of 2018. That's the reality. Last summer, when Mr. Muzalas said that he would testify to the House, he might have done something, somehow improve things. Today we need much more drastic responses to living problems. But we have an overall agreement with your policy, an overall disagreement, which is not based on a different interpretation of the treaties, because this 'caramella' that the New Democracy does not respect international conditions, we have heard it many times. We believe them, support them, many of them have been signed, ratified, by the majority of the New Democracy and served them. In the circumstances, however, no one says and no one forces any country to abolish border controls or relax the surveillance of its maritime or land borders. No Treaty, no European or international! And the policy that has been pursued in recent years is a policy of relaxing border surveillance and this disengagement of surveillance is seen by the fact that you have not made use of a single euro of the European funds available to you for the 2014-2020 multiannual programme to increase the possibilities of port and police for border conservation. If you do not use any of this money, you are giving a clear political message: 'We do not care about it'. And that's a krone of your policy. The second, which we have seen all these years, is that those who come to the country eventually live in it. There are no procedures for returning to Turkey or to third countries. The result of the refunds is low on the basis of the joint declaration on Europe - Turkey: We had a thousand six hundred returns, when in the last two years, since March 2016, when this agreement came into operation - not to say "power" and Mr Athanasios revolts - over fifty thousand people have come. The program of voluntary returns of the IOM is being mobilized. We have ten thousand returns in the last two years, when only in 2014, with corresponding flows at that time, we had about 12 thousand returns. And it does not qualify or over-finance. We have a policy that captures thousands of people on the islands. You say one Minister after another - there is one announcement after another - 'We will get away from the islands of thousands of people'. How are you gonna do that? Will you do so by violating the agreement or by closing the eyes to the fact that they will ultimately remain in the country, why are they not subject to the arrangements of the joint declaration? Will you do it with closed centers? Will you transfer them to other closed centres, where there will be international control, or will you leave them in the mainland free, and will you transfer the problem from the islands to the rest of the country? But also within the country, the two years, which we did not have increased flows, and we did not have pressure, what did you do about the procedures for integrating and improving the conditions of people living here and entitled to asylum? You've moved on? There are still too many, founded now, people basically in northern Greece in some hospitality centres, but in which there is no hope. Of course, we also see the crime that has to do with immigrants increasing, not because it is bad news - I do not want to put any of these labels on - but because the uncertainty that they feel, because of the situation they are facing here, of their incarceration, of their founding. We also see that uncontrolled traffic has caused most of the problems. I welcome the fact that after twenty days of speaking to you, you have made this operation - a broom - in Patras. But we had to mourn victims, use weapons, finally make a decision, and I understand that half of SYRIZA is reacting. Until a few days ago we were assured by the local MPs of SYRIZA that there is no way that this operation - "sweep" in Patras, because it is against your principles. Do you not understand that the basic principle that a government should serve is to consolidate the sense of security for Greek citizens and all residents? The immigrants themselves were intercepted, armed or blackmailed, as they did with the truck driver, who reported that they threatened him with a gun to board the truck. They had shattered peace and security in an entire region. But that's not all. Every day, reports around the planet about the victims of sexual exploitation of unaccompanied minors in the center of Athens. And, indeed, there is no attempt to cleanse Omonia, to clear Mars' field, so that these unfortunate humans are not exploited and to respect their human status. But I will tell you that your policy has brought us into a specific international isolation. The country has been threatened twice for the past three years. And if it were not for Dimitris Avramopoulos to keep Greece under the Schengen Treaty, we may have already been expelled. However, international meetings are held which deal with the management of the Mediterranean flows, in which Greece does not even participate, nor is it even invited, and the Visegrad countries' coalition has now been given much greater political intervention, without the corresponding real treatment on the part of the host countries. This special isolation and the difficult position in which the country has come seems even more to be considering the daily threats, which we accept from the Turkish side, that "We will open the canal and flood you with immigrants and refugees". The fact that we have given Turkey the right to work on this issue and we are shaking what will happen to tourism, what will happen to safety in the country, what will happen with the issue of the management of these people, shows that you left the two years of low-priced flows with unfinished funding, and that you have finally left the country undisturbed, against the threats of Turkish leadership. And I come to the question of making use of funding. While you have over-exploited the emergency funds, unfortunately you have not taken advantage of the programmes at all. The emergency funds have been allocated to addressing urgent needs, mainly through international organisations and non-governmental organisations, while the use of multiannual programmes, which are no longer controlled by the Ministry of Migration Policy, which was established in the crisis, still unable to work seriously, about a year and a half after it was set up, has been transferred to the Ministry of Economy and Development. And not only have they been transferred, but in the end, they have not succeeded in the Ministry of Economy and Development doing anything but a serious call for programmes. The program for unaccompanied minors stays free of funding in 2018! No organization, no NGOs have received funding for 2018 either those who host in the mainland or those who host the islands, for the few places you have managed to create. And I come to the issue of transparency and the effectiveness of this management. Do you think the account is good? I will tell you just one thing: The company that manages the sewage in Moria has taken over 5.5m euros for the evacuations it does, while only 400,000 euros cost the connection from Moria to the main pipeline. So long, three and a half years, you haven't been able to connect the pipeline yet and you're spending the money like this, throwing the money into the air? Of course, these procedures remain militarised. While you set up a Ministry, there remains the fantasies and strains of the Armed Forces in the critical national regions and especially the island complex of the Northeast Aegean to deal with the portions of food to be shared, to deal with all technical infrastructure, because you have not succeeded in either involving local government, nor at last find a way to operate both hot spots and the rest of the hosting centres throughout the country. There is still no operating regulations issued at any hosting centre! No one! When do you expect to do this? Know who comes in, when he gets in, where they stay, how they split up, how it works. Get dogs algae and gratifying don't give! Of course, there is no transparency in how different NGOs appear in the country. Everyone does his thing, there's no government supervision. We let anyone come to do whatever he wants to do, whether we agree or disagree with what he does. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe in another immigration policy which faces the heart of the problem. And the heart of the problem is the real separation between the refugee and the immigrant. And for this to happen, it takes quick procedures within two months to clear cases both to one and to the second degree. We suggested that you be brave for the second grade change. You're not brave in this bill. The increase in committees will not solve the problem. It needs a change in the way of control in the second degree, confidence in the Greek Asylum Service, which has so far brought marvelous results. And can I tell you something? It is so good that the way in which the first degree is awarded to one is that 98% of the decisions of the primary committees are ratified by the secondary committees. We need to see what happens with this. Secondly, closed pre-experienced centres. Anyone who is not entitled to asylum cannot be released. He should get into a process of exiting the country. We must, of course, strengthen this and infrastructures must be much better than in open centres. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You will allow me two minutes, Mr President. We cannot say that we are sensitive to human beings and we accept the image that Moria is presently conveying, with camps within fields, without any infrastructure, without any humanity. We cannot be sensitive and see that the camp in Diabetes was flooded the day before yesterday, and people are staying at the scenes. So go ahead and we'll be with you when you do this. We should also go to a sense of transparency and accountability. There can be no party around the refugee funds and there is no accountable accountability for who does what, where each euro of the Greek taxpayer or the European taxpayer goes. Finally, we believe in a firm policy of protecting the country's borders. We believe in strengthening structures, strengthening electronic surveillance. We believe that we should take advantage of the opportunity given to us with the European Coast Guard and FRONTEX and work together in this direction, not only in the direction of Europeans participating in the asylum procedures, but in fact, in undertaking a very serious part and cost of this process of safeguarding European borders. Ladies and gentlemen, we in this bill will say 'no', because we do not want to vote for the immigration policy that has been conducted over the last three and a half years. We will say 'no' because we are responding to the need for islanders asking for the immediate release of thousands of people from their islands. We will say 'no', because we will bring to Parliament the vote of thousands of refugees and immigrants, who are not today treated with respect for their human rights. And we will say 'no' because we believe that our European responsibility is that Greece should not be a parable to the European border guard system, but that it should be the country that respects the international obligations of their security and, of course, impose on other countries its behaviour and respect for solidarity. Because those who today refuse to participate in Europe's solidarity conditions say, 'We have no confidence in countries that do nothing to safeguard their borders, to force us who will come to our country'. So let us give a serious European response to those who today challenge the Greeks' ability to protect their national space and, of course, to protect the European area above all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr. Varvitsiotis. Ladies and gentlemen, let me inform you that the list is closed at the end of Mr Varvitsiotis' position. There have already been twenty-five speakers. On the basis of some rough calculations that we have made at the moment and without the political leaders being placed - we do not know their intention, we will then know - that about 20 a.m. the meeting will be completed. That is, of course, if the time is respected, because so far they have not been observed. I'm sure we'll see how we proceed then. Just take it into consideration. The Hill has the Special Buyer of the Democratic Association Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, throughout the discussions in committee, the major contradictions between the debate on the two European directives and the provisions introduced by the Government today on the implementation of immigration and refugee policy have indeed emerged. It has been a dialogue over all these days, which has given us the opportunity to highlight the modern problems that the country faces with regard to refugee and ineffectiveness - the government. Since you have taken one morning's initiative, Minister, I would like to tell you that with the current police force evacuating the two camps in Patras, even late, you have come to our position. You have adopted our own policy. I must also tell you that you have followed the only appropriate method, which we have proposed from the outset in the discussions, both in the committee and in the other meetings that we have had. Finally, what has proved to be that the pressure exerted by the residents, by the associations, by those of us who systematically supported this process, has resulted in a police operation which has evacuated, without the use of disproportionate force, the camps and has led more than four hundred fifty to eighty refugees in other hospitality structures outside Achaea. In other words, it is what we are saying for the first time: 'It was fair and acted, Minister. It is a good thing that you have done so." Only Members who said even a week ago that such methods cannot be used should be informed. In fact, however, we should - to be precise - pay tribute to the Greek Police, because with very methodical work it has managed to evacuate the camps. Let us also tell the institutions, the municipality - who was inexistent all this time - that we must not let such a camp take place again, because it was an outbreak of problems by the port, an outbreak of lawlessness and crime, at the same time as the brutal violation of human rights for the living of refugees and migrants in these informal camps in Patras. Apart from that, however, I am entering into the essential debate on the draft law that we have in plenary today. On the one hand, we have two directives, which are relevant to the reception of asylum seekers for international protection, and which coincide with a number of tense situations which now exist in the implementation of the Government's refugee policy. What do we got? We have a surge in the number of detained refugees in the islands of the northern Aegean. We have suffocating and inhuman living conditions in hot spots. It is not just us, it is not just you - the Prime Minister did not want to see these conditions - but all the international organizations see it. We have an increase in the flow from Evros and an explosive situation in local communities. Finally, we have a failure of your refugee policy. So, in order to clarify our position on the bill and see on what basis we can debate, we are voting in favour of incorporating European directives. These are directives, which are now far away, than what we would call 'the real situation in Greece'. They are behind the current situation. We do not, however, support the government's refugee policy. So, at the outset of the bill, we are voting 'at present' for purely formal reasons concerning the incorporation of European directives. We are telling you that if these directives were not available, we would have voted against this bill. Two words about the directives: The deadline for adapting Greek legislation, with the revised host directive, has already expired since 2015. The conditions to be applied are quite different. However, as in any incorporation of a directive, we have to agree that what matters is not the vote, the transposition of the directive, but its implementation. The directive concerns the reception of asylum seekers, with data from the time they were voted on. In 2013 there was a special border procedure, but no one could predict, not the increased 2014 flows and then the very increased 2015s, but the implementation of the Turkey-European Union Joint Declaration. The living conditions, the enjoyment of the rights provided for in this Directive for asylum seekers, cannot exist in the Aegean islands. They are incomprehensible from reality. It is impossible, therefore, to compare what we are voting on with the current situation in refugee. The incorporation of the directive, however, has a useful effect. It means, in essence, claiming and implementing policies, Minister, for the decongestion of the islands, if any government would like to implement this directive effectively. You, in our view, do the opposite. You are turning the islands and the entire territory into an area where refugees are enclaved, the number of which is constantly growing. However, let's go to the rules a little, because I have chosen for my prototype a number of articles that, I think, are indicative of the adjustments that you need to make in order to vote for this draft law. Article 7(2) concerns the geographical limitation of the applicant's residence for certain reasons, such as the public policy and the need for rapid processing of effective monitoring of the request for asylum. We believe that this geographical restriction refers to a personalised crisis, as it refers to restrictions on the free movement of each applicant. For our part, therefore, we think that it should be put forward - and the operators have rightly stressed this - a time limit for the restriction so that the use of this measure does not automatically become automatic without any specific result. Also, this provision - it is very simple - in paragraph 2 must be supplemented by a provision which excludes - let us not go to geographical exclusion, if the word scares - certain geographical areas from the free movement of refugees and enables the free movement of asylum seekers to be excluded from the country's borders, which are exit gates, so that we do not have the creation of situations such as those which we saw near the port of Patras. This addition is necessary in view of the problems that had previously been created and revived recently. Article 10: We consider that the non-reservation of minors should be the rule, and only in very exceptional cases of serious criminal behaviour, to be subject to deprivation or restriction of freedom. We therefore consider it unacceptable - as the Citizens' Ombudsman notes - that any form of deprivation of the freedom of children, which is linked exclusively to the legal status of their own parents or parents, as foreign citizens, as citizens of third countries. This is because it is a violation of rights, it violates the principle of the best interest of the child, as it is recorded and stated in Article 37 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. However, the problem of vulnerable and minors, particularly reception and identification centres and hosting centres, is the inadequacy and, in some cases, the absence of social, medical and mental support structures, so that these vulnerable groups are at serious risk of abandonment and further victimisation. These issues, with the victims of minors, are not solved by the directive, but they are issues of a structured social and immigration policy which the government does not have, but also by the fact that it does not try to shape. On Article 13, on the inclusion of all minors in the educational system. I also told you in committee that it is an example of surrealist legislation. For those who know, even little, the reality of camps, this is a practical impossibility for minors to attend the educational system within a quarter. However, this is a different wording from the Code of Immigration, which refers to the same conditions of access to education for minors from third countries with minors from Greece and not, ladies and gentlemen, under conditions of analogy, as stated in the directive. That should change. On the question of the right of refugees to education I think that if you prove the wording that is now in the directive, we are going back years, compared to the present, but also compared to the reality. Remember even when, for children without papers or parents without papers, we had institutionalized free access to the educational system. We cannot talk today, so many years later, under such conditions. It needs to be the same conditions and each government to work for equal access for all children to the educational system. Article 18 must define the structures laid down by Law No.4375/2016 in paragraph 4 as structures under the responsibility of the Reception and Identification Service. It is therefore important to determine who the request for asylum is sent to. What are the standards chosen for hosting places and from whom are they selected and how exactly is supervision carried out in these areas, by which competent authority? What we have to see is that, if we leave this provision so, it will be a serious omission and it must be corrected. It's easy to fix. In Article 23 it is necessary, in our view, to extend medical advice not only to victims of torture, but also to other serious acts of violence, but also to vulnerable groups and mentally ill. But, if you wish, most of the questions in terms of the government's policy are the amendment of the asylum procedures of L.4375/2016. I will not go too far on the fictitious performance of the decisions on the commander of the Reception and Identification Centre or on a dedicated website. The performance of the CYT commander is not effective, because if they leave it in the center, the performance will be done to him. If it is not, it will not happen anywhere, and so it does not matter, it makes no sense to do so. Furthermore, it is paradoxical that, instead of giving full and exclusive competence and competence to the Appeals Committees, the provision for the removal of judges from the Boards of Appeal from the Independent Committees of the Appeals Authority is contrary to the nature of the functioning of the Boards of Appeal, as committees with vindicatorial functions, due to their composition during 2/3 by administrative judges. Why do you want to change it rather than give them greater function, greater autonomy, so that they can examine the appeals faster? In addition, we consider the provision 'positive' and legally blocked the provision, which abolished the assent of a three-member selection committee for the Director of the Appeals Authority - representatives of the Citizens' Co-rapporteur or AEPI, Professors of HI - in favour of the discretion of the Minister responsible. Article 28(2). The abolition of an advisory body with representatives of two constitutionally guaranteed independent authorities seems - and we believe that this is the case - to reduce the independence of the Appeals Authority and I think you should see this again. In other chapters, let us look at some of the provisions which I think are important to the way you think about immigration policy. Article 31(1) adds those who have concluded a cohabitation agreement to the definition of members of the family of Greek citizens and are entitled to a residence permit such as those who have concluded a marriage. We agree. Paragraph 2 shall be added to those who have concluded a cohabitation agreement in the definition of the members of an investor family and who are entitled to set up in our country. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] Your tolerance, Mr President, for one and a half minutes. Thank you. In paragraph 3, those who have concluded a cohabitation agreement in the definition of the members of a strategic investor family and are entitled to set up in the country shall be added. Now, let's go to paragraph 4. While it appears that the proposed changes make it easier to access licences for exceptional reasons, the reality is different. We must agree that immigrants, who fulfil certain conditions, can and must be granted a residence permit. The current legislation provides for three categories: those who have entered the country legally, those who hold a residence permit in the past, and for some reason they have lost the right to those who do not belong to the above categories, but have proved by documents of certain chronology that they have been in the country for over seven years. In all three cases, licence applicants have to prove that they have developed bio-engineering ties with the country, that is, they have somehow been socialised. The proposed provision abolishes the first two categories and remains the third, which also applies to those who permanently entered the country and those who hold a licence in the past. Obviously, the news is not good for those who have to wait four years longer than is foreseen today. For those who have previously held a licence in the past, the current issue provides for better treatment, since it is not legalisation, but for a return to legality, and I think that you should conclude. Now everyone is treated equally with those who have never been licensed and is an equal downwards. For the first time, it is also laid down that citizens of third countries can make use of the relevant provisions on a one-off basis. Once. Very recently SYRIZA asked for a second chance for immigrants. And now what SYRIZA is asking for is the last chance for immigrants. Once. Will it change? If you bring it. You could've brought it back from the beginning. In practice, it makes sense that the right to request for exceptional reasons does not lead to the continuous legitimisation of the same person who does not actually respect the obligations of the State. But it is obviously unfair for everyone to be put under the same balancing base. I think it should be removed and, if I understand it correctly, that is what you intend to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u18	Mr. Papatheodorou, if you'd like, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u19	I shall conclude, Mr President. We therefore have reservations about how to speed up procedures with this provision. In order to prove the continued seven-year stay, immigrants still have to prove by means of documents they will produce. In my dentistry, I will mention two more essential points that we have on the amendments. But I have to tell you this. The current situation in the management of the refugee issue is deadlocked. Under no circumstances can you proceed with emblematic policies. The question of the rapid and fair award of asylum - Mr Carras will also bring back his amendment - needs today to pass through shortening time and fair procedures. This can be done, this needs more staff in the Asylum Service and it also needs more rapid procedures so that asylum can be delivered and refugees can be released from caging. Otherwise, local communities and refugees will live the same vibrant daily life and I think that the government is responsible for the management. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr. Papatheodorou. Mr Panagiotis Iliopoulos has the floor on behalf of the Golden Dawn for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. It has been an hour since we started and I have not heard anyone from here smuggling a conversation about the massacre that has begun since yesterday by the terrorist state, Israel. Not even half a word! We hear if someone else breaks their nail, we hear here about convictions, there's a mess around the world. But today, who literally slaughter children, infants, disabled people, women, all those who keep stones or nothing - because the infants keep nothing and slaughter them - we have heard nothing. Rather, the New Democracy has been lured here beyond the quills of Georgiadis and the Minister of Public Order of the Treasury and all the others here, beyond the rot, the masonexia and found no word. I have here to show and testify in the Minutes a picture of Adonidos Georgiadis holding a plaquet in a Jewish cemetery and he says "Why?" I expect Mr Georgiadis to take out a similar plaque here, saying 'Why are eight babies slaughtered and dozens of other people killed, for no reason?' [[At this point, the Member, Mr Panagiotis Iliopoulou, presents for the minutes the above photograph, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I have another picture that says: 'Csipras without chair with Palestinian handkerchief'. And underneath it says: 'Tsipras with chair with the President of Israel'. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Panagiotis Iliopoulou, presents for the minutes the above photograph, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Today, if Mr. Tsipras comes to talk, tell us, Mr. Minister: is he with the handkerchief or with the gum on the head? You tell us this today about the massacres you humanists. There's more here from the Golden Dawn site. Get in and see pictures of you hiding them. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Panagiotis Iliopoulou, presents for the minutes the above photographs, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Do you see the babies here? They are slaughtered, Minister, but no word! One hour later, I'm saying you can't, someone will say. You're all humanists, damn it, over here, say a word about these kids! You have nothing to say. All New Democracy has to say, Barbecue, is that this bill, he says, would vote if you brought it in a year ago. What does this bill say? To speed up the asylum. Let's bring it, Minister, a year before the New Democracy could vote, let's get it over with. Why do you do these things to them? He says, unfortunate people. He kept talking about the human rights of these unfortunate people. No, unfortunate people are the Greeks who live here in their homeland and have you for government and those here for opposition! These are the unfortunate people, mentioned 15 times as the Varvichiot of the New Democracy. He says: Why do you not cleanse the Area of Mars and Omonia? He's a dude, too! Who? Once he cleared the field of Mars and Omonia, when this ugliness, Samaras, along with Dendia, went to Omonia. When did Omonia clean up? I see you're gone. Where can you hear the truths out here? You have made Greece, except economic protectorate, and a warehouse for illegal immigrants. Because, of course, it is, and a lot of money. We must not forget that. NGOs are playing too much of a role in what you call immigration and we are illegal immigration. You have given land and water to NGOs. We see here in the bill very nice things, very progressively. There is talk, for example, of members of the refugee family, including, among other things, - listen to what is nice! - minor single children, whether or not they were born in marriage or outside their parents' marriage or are adopted. The other now comes with the boat, has broken the passports, and of course we cannot know where these children come from or where they come from. Of course, there's no provision for DNA testing. These children may be considered a family with him, but he, Minister, may be a master and these children may be extradited to hot spots. Don't tell me you've never heard of this before, Minister. For God's sake, Minister! Don't tell me you haven't heard of child prostitution in hot spots. These kids over here that you're saying you don't know where they belong, these kids publish out there. Illegal immigration has no value for human life, human dignity, the soul of children. I don't know how else I can tell you, and I'm sticking you with no veins of humanity! Accidentally, of course, these problems we are hearing now, which you are supposed to solve in Patras, in a week the same will be in Patras and Mytilini. All by accident are two municipalities where they blossom, to say it elegantly, the Left. In these municipalities, of course, there has been a celebration with illegal immigrants. Men of crime are all hot spots, all over Greece. Drug trafficking, child prostitution and lately they discovered all the media and they also played arms trade. They're armed, they say, and the democrats start and they're scared that they're armed. Seriously, now you hear that they're armed and that all these years we've created a fifth bay that, if anyone turns it off, will turn against the Greeks? You've never heard of this before. You go to hot spots all the time, but you don't see either guns or drugs or prostitution. You don't see anything. Members of the family, of course, the husband or the offmarriage, says, his mate, with whom he has a duly proven relationship. It comes to my mind how such a relationship can be proved, but I will not say it, because I will downgrade the already degraded Parliament. In what way, then, will the minor accompanied by an adult relative, who in practice takes care of him, convince you that he is indeed his relative and not his promoter? How will you find out whether the four women who bring with them are a Muslim family? Will this form of cohabitation be allowed in complete contrast with the Constitution and the Civil Code? In this context, in Article 2, we also see the notion of the representative of an unaccompanied minor, who is not one of the NGOs who can legally manage at will, without any competence, certification or state control, the fate, body and personality of a minor illegal immigrant. Did you government humanists learn nothing about the offer of these NGOs to Africa, who were arrested for traficking, organ trafficking and emigration to minors? This is not the case, of course, on Greek territory. For God's sake! Article 6, referring to the official documents of the alien, states that a travel document may be issued when serious humanitarian reasons arise. Well, what kind of windows have you put here to give asylum to everyone? Because all those people with the benefits you give them don't want to leave. They don't want to go anywhere. This is where they want to stay. You see them. They like, they take the benefits, two and three allowances each, light, water, telephone free of charge. Now with this system, which is being subsidised by the Soros Non-Government Organizations - 'Praksis', 'Estia', I don't remember what it's called - you put them in the Greeks' homes and you rent them with very good rentals. The Greeks give it to them. That's how they're cut off by those who rent them for you. So you've scattered them all over the Greek territory. Well, home for free. Which Greek has a home for free? Light, water, phone for free. No Greek. Benefits to go with their cards to shop whatever they want. Things that are unthinkable for the average Greek who must work 12 hours a day on bass and earn the 400 euros, which the illegal immigrant has ready his first month in his card and all his expenses paid. Of course, for humanitarian reasons. Very nice. There'll be this window to be given to all asylum. Free, of course, hospitals for all. Have you been to a hospital to see what kind of tsamboukas the illegal immigrants go in and take the order of the Greeks? Have you seen infectious diseases that have disappeared for so many years and have returned to our homeland? You don't even know that. Of course, the New Democracy also had a point that said that for those who are supposed to have been tortured it would require a paper from a public hospital. And some leftists came out here and say 'no, be a doctor from NGOs with the know-how'. And the speaker of the New Democracy, who is being cut and allegedly voted against and says 'yes, we must, because these doctors have the know-how'. The NGO doctor should give this paper to extend the residence of this illegal immigrant. At another point you're supposed to pay indemnity. Of course, what you exclude from the allowances in the three points you would give them means that you will never give any compensation to any Greek. The New Democracy certainly has too many reasons to want this whole party to take place because its president's sister has "ActionAid", which manages a piece, very elegantly, of illegal immigration. So of course her interests are financial. With illegal immigrants, those you have brought here, you say 'equal rights to work'. From where and until the smuggler in our homeland has equal rights to the Greek worker who is fighting here, who has to raise his children, who are his roots, where are his family, the dirt he's walking? And have the same health rights, education? Where and how will those who have invaded our homeland have the same rights? And you say it here, and you're not ashamed of yourself. Unemployment would, of course, have been much less if all of them had left here. The insurance funds wouldn't fall apart. The working rights that you and the left still are cutting would not have arrived where the Greeks have arrived today, been hungry and run for a scorching to any employer will take advantage of them. The scenario for 2050 of all statistical services in Greece and across Europe read to see what it says. It says that in 2050 Greece will have a population of about eight to nine million. Two thirds of them will have been born in Greece. But note what it means to have been born in Greece. It means he's putting in those who are born here today. But in 2017, for example, which is the last official record, a hundred twenty thousand people died, 99.9% were Greek. The ones you bring in here are not at any age superstition. He is eighteen and forty years old and most men, or even women who come, randomly, are in pregnancy to give birth here, so that they can get the benefits that you so nice and handsomely give him. So they died a hundred and twenty thousand people. Of these 99.9% were Greeks and ninety thousand were born, most were, unfortunately, foreign. So imagine if it goes that way - which will be worse, according to statistics - in 2050 Greece will not be as we know it today. Its population will have been almost completely replaced by illegal immigrants. This, of course, and the globalization plans, which are now at their final stage, and you serve them in the best possible way, serves you. There would be no one better than Tsipras to implement what has been applied in recent years in our country. You've been through things unthinkable that we'd think about and scare, we'd get our hair up, and today we think it's normal. In fact, from what I was reading in a newsletter that comes to us today, there are some left-wing over more rights to illegal immigrants. Instead of being out there a million Greeks, waking up a million Greeks and saying, "Oh, guys, what else are you going to pass? Where else will you reach this poor homeland?" will there be a thirty afflictors who will protest for even more rights to illegal immigrants. This is the situation in Greek society, unfortunately. So make - more timely than ever - a referendum. You're very democrats. Make a referendum to see the opinion of the Greek people. It is an issue that is currently plagued by Greek society and as much as it is going to get worse. Make a referendum, democratically, to see the Greeks' opinion. Perhaps the Greeks do not agree with your policy. This, Minister, has sometimes passed through your mind, that is to say, "It is 10 million Greeks. They may not agree with our policy.' Make a referendum. It's so democratic. In order not to continue, because I am unfortunately going to go too far on these issues - I am very concerned about both as Greek and as family and as faithful religious, with all that you have done in our religion - I will say the position of Golden Dawn, which is: Immediate expulsion of all illegal immigrants. Go on, consider some cases where these people come from a war zone. The rest don't come from war zones. Direct re-importation to their homelands. We are humanists who want them in their homes, not you who want them here to move in a foreign country and grab them. I'll use a phrase used by a well-known Greek music composer who's been watching him lately. He said: "We are against everyone." And so we are against all of you, all of you who have destroyed our country. Our homeland will be reborn, Hellenism will rise, because we as Golden Dawn want the simplest thing: in Greece are worthy and the Greeks first.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr. Heliopoulou. Mrs Manolakos has the floor on behalf of the KIC for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u23	The biggest problem in refugee and immigration today is double caging in the islands, in disgusting living and hygiene conditions, non-existent health services, with explosions of desperation by the incarcerated, with consequences for the lives of the inhabitants of the surrounding areas, blossoming slave circuits and with a significant number of drowned and even children. The call for direct transport of people from the islands to the mainland and for immediate health support to the islands has mainly referred to the Moria camp of seven thousand, when the tonnage is just two and a half thousand people, in conditions of living with limited medical assistance, which pose a great risk to the health and life of the people caught on the island. The conditions are dangerous and completely unhealthy, especially for children, as reported by the pediatrician and medical coordinator of ‘Doctors Without Borders’. This is the situation in almost all the islands. These are the results of violations of basic rights of refugees, uprooted, but also the consequences of the implementation of the joint declaration by the European Union - Turkey, which we have denounced from the outset and have unfortunately been verified. Because it is a dangerous, unacceptable and inhumane treaty and the result of a hammer of the European Union's wolf alliance with Turkey's ruling order. You continue with passion for its implementation and through this bill, and you even show black white. Aren't you doing the same with 'fair growth'? Only for businessmen's profits! So you do not solve the problems of the incarcerated in Greece nor will they stop coming refugees and immigrants and at the same time violate the rights of grounded refugees from the fire of the imperialist war. There is increasing turf traders and circuits, as well as the number of dead refugees and migrants. At the same time, the provocativeness of the Turkish Government towards the Cypriot but also the sovereign rights of the country in the Aegean Sea was strengthened. It is so when the Turkish Government is proclaiming itself to a believable interlocutor, who even takes some billions and threatens by claiming half the Aegean! Although she is beyond insolvent, her army has already entered third countries, Cyprus, Syria in Afrin and Iraq. The bill, therefore, does not solve double caging, but perpetuates it in additional, reactionary terms as well as in Article 7. But geographical identification, i.e. double caging, means restricting personal freedom. You are trespassing on basic rights and strengthening them by a regulatory decision of the asylum service director. However, we consider it inhuman and barbaric terms, if anyone does not obey the geographical restriction, to be deprived of any provision of material reception conditions. You must be more sensitive. No one can be deprived of housing and food. You condemn him like a dog in the vineyard. And at no time did the President of the Association of Administrative Judges say that on such matters as human value, we should not discuss discontinuance of benefits. I should also like to point out that the position of the mayors of the islands against Article 7 is unanimous, as is the cause of the explosive problems they have. We reiterate our position on the decapitation of refugees and immigrants from the islands, their transfer to mainland Greece in hosting centres, where asylum claims will be lodged in order to go to any country they want. But we will ask the following question: do you think the refugee will stop, when we have a new phase of imperialist aggression in the Middle East, with dozens of missile attacks by Israeli murderous warships following the US decision to withdraw from the international agreement on the Iranian nuclear programme? But also the verbs threatened by the Euro-Atlantic'reconciliation', as the contradictions about the redistribution of markets and spheres of influence are growing, prove the new, dangerous exacerbation of imperialist competitions in the Middle East and the increase in refugee victims. The country with the responsibility of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government is also involved in this anti-competition bucket of anti-people competitions, which is even more confusing the political militia and economic relations with the terrorist, Israel, who murders massively even innocent women and infants, as it did yesterday with the dead and thousands of Palestinians injured. The government has not condemned it and it is a shame. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs simply mentioned it, as did the European Union, talking about restraint, equating the victim with the perpetrator. It is so, since in the name of geostrategic upgrading it involves our country and our people in great and dangerous situations. As far as the reception of applicants for international protection is concerned, there are some positive points, but we fear that they will remain on paper, such as the obligation to provide material reception conditions for minors, regardless of the request for asylum. It's positive, like others. But reality is black and grim. We are talking about the most sensitive part of refugees and immigrants, namely minors and especially unaccompanied people. Unaccompanied minors are counted by the government to three thousand and out of them only a thousand percent, 1/3, are in guesthouses. The majority, in fact, are in NGOs' hostels, while the public structures are almost nonexistent. What will the government do with them? You refer to the bill for family protection. That's good. But what will the government do about family reunification when Germany, which is the main country in which a member of its family of refugees, has put an inhuman and unacceptable cap? The training of refugees' children is chaos. Refugees in mainland Greece - because in the islands there is no right to elementary education - but they go to early schools or to intercultural, with few infrastructural and staff. The education structures of refugees who are mainly staying in camps, in afternoon classes, unfortunately began too late, with the recruitment of assistant teachers at the last minute, without interpreters, without logistics. Let me say that there are positive articles and we will vote for them, but we will press you to implement them. However, it is unacceptable that Article 10, where children or pregnant women are being imprisoned, is a violation of rights, is an inhumane and degrading treatment. The Citizens' Counsel also points out that it violates Article 37 of the Child's Rights Convention. Article 19 is also hard, with the exception of paragraph 5, because it restricts or interrupts feedingstuffs to applicants. The reasons should be examined in more detail. And here I ask the following question: When there is no staff to be served in accordance with the rights of refugees, then their rights are not violated? Imperialist wars cannot be condemned to deprive food and shelter, that is to say, basic human rights. As far as the amendments to asylum procedures are concerned, special working groups are to be set up, which means over-exploitation and extermination of the existing staff of the Asylum Office and without any guarantee of efficiency at such levels of employment, rather than adequate coverage of the existing gaps. We are talking about standing needs, with well-trained and experienced staff and care for their working rights. A further number of trained officials must be recruited and additional asylum committees set up so that asylum procedures can be accelerated, but this is not to the detriment of the rights of workers and asylum seekers. As regards the final decision, it is a reactive provision which restricts even more the rights of applicants for international protection, since the application to the administrative courts no longer protects them from expulsion. This directly undermines the right to appeal to administrative courts and opens the path of impulse deportation in a very short time. You said you would bring in an amendment. We haven't seen her yet. But it is also challenging that the European Asylum Office and all the asylum procedures are actively involved, and that has so far been limited to derogating border procedures. You will allow the staff of the European Agency to carry out any administrative action to deal with the asylum application. In other words, foreign staff will replace public asylum service staff. You are also further reducing the deadlines for examining asylum applications for the accelerated procedure. It's been ninety days and you're going 30 days. As far as the applicants' medical examinations are concerned, you're telling them to take place at the CPT. But with what infrastructure? With what already tragic, unexistent, health services? I mean, he's literally staying on the paper. However, you also have fast track procedures in cases of a large number of arrivals and asylum applications in ports, airports or CSTs. If the decision is not served or the card is terminated before the decision is taken, you are already reducing the very short period of appeal. Of the sixty days, he goes to fifteen days. Finally, the proposed arrangements are making the current bad situation worse. What is the objective of the arrangements? They are the fast track asylum procedures, because the applicant for international protection can very easily lose the right to asylum and enter deportation centres, in violation of any concept of law or even mass deportation, because mass deportations were not only with the previous governments but also with today. The Immigration Code makes justified changes, such as adaptation to the Cohabitation Pact. However, the regular legitimacy of a part of the economic migrants who live and work for years in our country continues in the process of 'extreme' words which have become 'tired', instead of a process which is simple and unnecessarily paradoxical - we are also waiting for them to be amended - by promoting the approval of a long-term residence permit. There is a need for a brave staffing of local and decentralised administration services, in general all the services responsible for receiving requests and examining residence permits, because the tails are large. Furthermore, the residence permit due to ‘exceptional reasons’ cannot be renewed for the same reason as it was originally granted. It's once, as features mentioned, which is very unfair and you need to get it back. We also consider that there is an issue of unequal treatment of the members of the family of economic migrants in terms of medical care, which has become worse with Law 4529/2018, as is rightly pointed out in the remarks made by the National Committee on Human Rights. Finally, they are well compensated for damages to property by some refugees or immigrants. We agree that there should be a special fund and direct compensation, but you must do so. The Communist Party of Greece does not want anyone of the toil to be rooted out of his place. We want the peoples standing up to live with well-being in their country and to fight to get rid of their potential, so we demand - and we urge - immediate relief and solidarity measures for the outdated, immediate provision of travel documents to refugees and immigrants and to travel to the countries they want, to live in appropriate public temporary accommodation areas with adequate food and medical care. And for immigrants, who live and work for years in our country, we ask for full and equal rights with their Greek colleagues. But as long as there are focal points of imperialist wars and capitalist domination that impoverishes peoples, the problem will gloat. That is why a solution is the fight against the barbaric capitalist advantageous system that gives rise to wars, poverty and refugee. We are voting against, and we shall be voting against the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou. Mr. Konstantinos Katsikis, special speaker from the Independent Greeks, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's draft law is working cumulatively in the direction of structural reforms promoted by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. This project in this case is supported by the incorporation of two Community directives into our national law. This incorporation is not a mere legislative adaptation, it is also an attempt to resolve issues through the humanitarian approach, because we all have to understand that a piece of legislation is only right when it has a human sign. And today's got one. It is because it offers people destroyed and hunted the possibility of restarting their lives, because no one leaves their homeland in such a massive way if they live in it at least to be tolerated. She is abandoned when she realizes that the greatest good that has been given to her, the good of life. The debates before the committee, as well as the hearing of the bodies, were the desire and intention of all, institutional and society, the common good being the criterion of resolving the problems that have arisen. And that is through the amendments that are made to the conditions of entry and residence in our country of third-country nationals. Specification of these conditions, which are necessary and necessary for the reception in the Greek area of applicants for international protection, makes the procedure clear and objective. The provision of the settlement of the issue of the legitimate replacement of the Director of the Asylum Service and the Appeals Authority, as well as of the Commander of the Reception and Identification Service, reduces bureaucracy and ensures continuity of administrative action. Prioritisation of the care of minors shall be governed by the arrangements laid down in Article 22, which ensures the protection of both unaccompanied and separated minors, in accordance with their best interests at all times. The prompt briefing of the nearest public prosecutor, when an entry into the Greek territory of an unaccompanied minor is established, triggers an umbrella of protection and ensures that it is referred to appropriate hosting structures according to the age, gender and maturity of each child. By placing unaccompanied minors on foster families, I would hope not to be gay, the urgent need for alternative ways of housing these children, the number of which has been five times doubled over the last year. In order to ensure the proper exercise of their rights, but at the same time to comply with their obligations, it is necessary to provide for their representation. However, the designated representative shall be selected on strict criteria and may not be designated as a person whose interests are conflicting or likely to conflict with the interests of the unaccompanied minor. The possibility for foreign minors to access the Greek educational system with a proportionate application of the conditions applicable to Greek citizens, as well as the provision of training aid measures to facilitate their integration into the public education system, societalises them and shields them with resistance that will prevent them from being involved in illegitimate actions. The provision of access for adults to vocational training programmes provides them with qualifications which facilitate their legal entry into the labour market. The radical arrangements in Article 7 have been drawn up on the basis of absolute respect for the freedom of the individual and, consequently, the possibility of freedom of movement on Greek territory. A restriction of such freedom of movement may be carried out by a decision of the Director of the Asylum Service only where this is necessary for faster processing and necessary to monitor their requests more effectively. The provision of material conditions of reception and special care to those who have been subject to the measure of limitation and deprivation of the benefit of free movement demonstrates that this measure is not a punishment, contrary to the interests of the applicants for international protection, because it will substantially shorten the time to process their applications and lead them to the desired effect. The provision of material conditions, even in the form of financial aid, will ensure that applicants have sufficient standard of living with respect for their personal dignity. The self-management of the material media provided to them in the hospitality centres, private dwellings, apartments or hotels leased for this reason allows them to live as independently as possible, ensuring them greater individual and family functionality. The uniform treatment of those who are applying for the same benefits requires the establishment of conditions and conditions for the granting of these benefits, which, in our view, are well placed to ensure fair, fair and equitable treatment of all. It is also right to restrict or suspend the material reception conditions to any of the applicants in breach of the terms and conditions on the basis of which the relevant benefits have been granted to them. The accumulation of thousands of pending applications has imposed a rationalisation of asylum procedures and a reduction of the time-limit for accelerated proceedings in no more than thirty days when applicants come from a safe country. Part II and Articles 25 to 27 form a single scheme for attracting persons throughout the European Union, moving between companies in intra-corporate transfer, where parts of groups are located in Greece or other Member States of the Union. The possibility of staying with the right to work is laid down. It is envisaged that family reunification, without waiting period, and the right to mobility within the European Union, for job-seekers in the same group. The main objective of this draft law is the equal treatment of officials and employees with workers seconded by undertakings established in a Member State of the European Union to undertakings from another Member State as part of an international service. In the light of equal treatment, such conditions of employment shall be ensured with regard to other workers and work rights shall be established corresponding to national rights. The provisions of the directive do not affect or affect the competence of the Member State to regulate the admission of third-country nationals to its territory and to determine the admission of such intended work. The incorporation of the directive is expected to have a beneficial effect - I would say - large companies implementing investment projects in Greece, achieving flexibility in the exploitation of human resources. The Independent Greeks, aware of the importance of these arrangements, whose institutionalisation solves a number of problems that have arisen from the unprecedented migration flows managed by the Greek state and the duration of the continuing humanitarian crisis, are voting in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u26	Thank you to Mr Katsiki and to the economy in time. Please, if you can, keep all the time, so that we can finish the session by 20.00, which we have calculated. The Minister for Culture and Sport has the floor, Mr Lydia Conniordos, to develop an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the House today has tabled an amendment to Rule 54(2). 2a of Law No 4481/2017, which amended Article 18 of Law No 2121/1993 on the right of reproduction and the resulting obligation on importers or manufacturers to pay breeders and other beneficiaries a reasonable remuneration for the damage to which they themselves are subject by the copying of their works for private purposes. The truth is that we were not given the opportunity to hold a full public consultation on this issue, as we would like, in the preparation of Law 4481/2017, and that is because this law has too many burning issues that had to be dealt with. But in practice we found that this provision was not fair and balanced and did not take into account requests from both sides: on the one hand, the authors and beneficiaries of intellectual property rights and related rights, and on the other, the companies importing and manufacturing machinery and storage means for private copying. That is why we have focused on this matter retrospectively. It is a very difficult and timely issue not only for Greece, but also for the whole of the European Union. It is - we would say - a Gordian bond. Greece, however, is one of those countries that pay less for private reproduction in collective management organisations. I am referring to absolutely figures - receipts and not necessarily to legal provisions. In relation to computers, I would remind you that they are provided for in European Union countries legislation, such as Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Portugal, etc. We have no change at this point, but what was foreseen in July 2017 also applies. In relation to the receipts of the agencies from private reproduction, I shall mention some figures in some countries similar to Greece, such as Austria. The total reasonable remuneration paid in 2015 to Collective Management Organisations amounted to approximately EUR 10 million. In Belgium amounted to EUR 25 million, in Portugal to EUR 3.5 million, while in Greece, for the same year, the amount of reasonable remuneration paid by the persons responsible for all technical means, appliances and equipment and storage facilities was about EUR 1.5 million. These amounts for revenues from Collective Management Bodies are based on published reports from global organisations such as ‘CISAC’ and ‘WIPO’, and on the financial data from Collective Management Bodies in Greece and are undeniable. In general we have come to the following: we have made it clear in the law that fair remuneration is not subject to all the means, but only to those that are appropriate for the reproduction of sound and image. Technical means which are not suitable for private use, as well as those which are manifestly not intended for private use, are not subject to fair remuneration. This was a consistent request from the APRC, consistent with Union case-law and creates security on the market. At the same time, we exempted from the fair fee all the storage media of 4GB and below. There could be a lot of dialogue here on whether 4GB is a fair or not. However, I would like to point out that fair remuneration is percentage, which means that small storage facilities pay less and larger ones. So there's a proportionality. The basic principle underlying the law is that if it is not clear about an instrument if it is intended for private use or not, that instrument pays and the final buyer may claim the repayment of the amount paid. This mechanism should provide and post the agencies on their website, while the application by the businessman or professional will be made to a Collective Management Organisation which undertakes this management instead of all those who have received a percentage of the amount. Tablets and smartphones are placed outside the concept of computers, but they are explicitly provided for in the law and are subject to 2% remuneration, equivalent to that of computers, regardless of the memory of RAM. Memory existed as a criterion in Law 4481/2017. However, it was not an appropriate criterion, and that is why we abolished it. Specifically, the fair remuneration in the law is defined as follows: 2% on computer value, tablets and smartphones, 4% on photocopiers, scanners, printers and paper suitable for photocopies, 6% in storage media above 4GB, sound and image recorders, magnetic tapes or other material that is available for sound or image reproduction. I would remind you that under the previous regime, smartphones were subject to 6% instead of 2%. This has changed retrospectively. We streamlined the system of submission of accountable statements by debtors and are now regularly submitted every calendar quarter and there is no possibility for the Collective Management Organisations to request a new responsible statement within six months, not every month, in the event of a debtor not complying with a convicted declaration. We also abolish the doubling of the remuneration due in the event of the delay in submitting the declaration on the value of imported goods, because we thought it was particularly burdensome. To close, I would like to note: we did not exclude any machine or storage media that is suitable for private reproduction other than 4GB storage facilities or below. We believe that in a difficult period for creators and other beneficiaries, this will give them a breath in order to increase their income. Apart from that, it is just because their works are reproduced against the coroner and only a very small percentage of profit reaches their hands. I'm not talking about the projects that are being tempted. That's why we talked to the committee about Internet violations.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u28	Madam Minister, if you'd like, you'd better finish up slowly.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u29	I shall conclude, Mr President. We believe that combining the two measures will bring blossom to the space. And this boom will have an impact not only on the creators and beneficiaries themselves, but also on society and culture and ultimately on all of us. On the other hand, I believe that a clear provision with unpaid return mechanisms and only proportionately, not excessive sanctions, also helps businesses and the market. We look forward to the good cooperation of all the institutions and we are at their disposal to help through the copyright officer in Greece, the Greek institution of the Ministry of Culture, the OPI, in order to implement this provision immediately, without problem and in consultation with all the institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Minister. Mr Danellis, on behalf of the river, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Let me begin with the amendment from the Ministry of Culture. Minister, I find it hard to understand what makes you bring a matter for copyright as a last-minute amendment and indeed a bill from the Ministry of Migration Policy. Unless you consider that the control of entry into the country of intellectual or artistic creations is subject to the control of the Ministry of Migration Policy. I think it is a very serious issue, with many different approaches, but also an issue that requires consultation. We do not have the time, and we may be vindicating your proposal, because we will be unable to put forward at least positive proposals for it within the next three or four hours that need to be voted on. I think that for reasons of order, but also for reasons of substance and in order not to challenge such a matter, we should not deal with it in this way at the last minute, except in relation to the particular bill we are discussing. Because - I say this again - it is a serious matter and it is capable of having multiple approaches. I think it would be preferable to bring it separately - as we should have - so that we can see what it is all about. I'm coming to our bill now. As we know, immigration - refugee, ever since it appears - is an issue of high importance for our country, in fact, in the tension in which it appears, with the unpredictable escalation of this tension and its uncertain future. Of course, we do not forget that the problem we have to deal with and manage is not our problem, but it is a problem for all the Member States of the European Union to stay in our own context. What must be done to tackle the refugee and migration problem in Greece and in Europe? First of all, it should be common knowledge that mass migration is a product of multiple factors. In addition to the war conflicts, in poverty-related areas, extreme climatic conditions, overcrowding, racial differentiations are increasing statistically the possibility of explosions mainly of civil conflicts, which force the losers, in particular, to take the refugee route. As utopian or idealistic as it may sound, it must be understood that at European level we must insist on peaceful dispute resolution policies and prevention policies. These must be accompanied by calculated external, economic and humanitarian aid in order to be able to prevent or even prevent many intra-state and transnational conflicts at the points in which they are hatched. On the other hand, on the issue of immigration and refugee flows in the modern world, we are seeing an irony: conflicts in the third world, to a large extent, are also the consequences of competition between large powers to secure a sphere of influence, for the exploitation of raw materials and for the sale of arms systems. Their result is, however, the creation of desperate refugees who move towards the Western world. The paradox of this story is that at the end of the day the world's privileged ones are forced to pay multiple costs to deal with refugee waves precisely in this attempt to multiply profits and power. As far as Greece is concerned, the conclusion is clear: our country does not have the luxury of isolation. We are, moreover, for millions of impoverished people, a country - a portal for Europe, a country - a portal for a better life. Obviously, for the areas on the front line of refugee - migration flows, such as Lesvos, Chios, Kos or Evros, these are bad news. These areas are called upon to face the challenge of receiving, identifying and finally promoting refugees and migrants within a strictly European framework. And that is what we are doing today, incorporating the two European directives. Of course, the problem of immigration-refugee is not solved solely by legal instruments. This is a multi-level problem, which concerns not only Union or national law, but it also depends directly on international developments. In other words, we are daily in a moving sand. And that means that the co-legislative ministries, but also our partners in the European Union, must be on constant readiness to change and enrich the institutional framework. Our work is difficult. On the one hand, we cannot allow a fortress Europe to be created, because it is our duty to protect those in need of protection, but on the other hand, it is our duty not to put the safety or quality of life of our citizens at risk. We must protect our borders more effectively, without, however, being at the expense of the fundamental European values, tolerance, openness and, of course, the primary values of humanism. We are not underestimating the difficulties of dealing with a problem whose dimensions are constantly changing and, indeed, unforeseen, Minister. However, we have gained considerable experience now so that, at least in terms of structures and procedures, we have a comprehensive plan. It is a pity to have, for example, at our disposal now financial resources and not to be able to use these resources in a timely and sufficiently timely manner due to bureaucratic turbulence or administrative failure. It is unacceptable for workers in various structures to remain unpaid for five or six months, while the money for their salaries is there. Of course, I should like to say here that the decision to renew fixed-term contracts for workers at the Asylum Service is correct. Experimental staff do not spare us, and that is why we must always make the best use of it. I will now make a few general remarks in the bill. First of all, it is obvious that, with the incorporation of Directive 2013/33, which is being attempted by this bill, internal legislation is significantly improved, and that is why it is far more perfectly legal than that which was in force until now and was incorporated into Law.4375/2016. However, the judicial guarantees for third-country nationals and foreigners, who are applying for asylum in Greece, seem to retreat while they should be strengthened. In addition, I fear that some of the provisions of the draft law may not respond to the reality faced by workers on a daily basis. The fear of organisations is that if a question arises of the interpretation of the directive before the Court of Justice of the European Union, Greece may be found to be an infringement not only of Union law but also of international law. A few things about the structure of the bill, which, as I have said before, comes late, but finally comes and strengthens and mainly improves. In the first part, namely Articles 1 to 24, an adaptation of Greek legislation is made and Directive 33/2013 is incorporated, with regard to the requirements for the reception of applicants for international protection. In the second part and in Articles 25 to 27, another Directive is incorporated, 66/2014, concerning the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals under an intra-corporate transfer due to an amendment with the addition of articles of Law 4251/2014. In the third part, where it will focus on most of my position, Article 28 amends the previous law, Law No.4375/2016, concerning the organisation and operation of the Asylum Service, the Appeals Authority, the Reception and Identification Service, the establishment of the General Secretariat for Reception and other provisions, while Article 29 is amended as regards asylum procedures. Finally, in the fourth part, Articles 30 to 37 are amended or repealed. In accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation, this revenue is to be considered as assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation. As far as Part One is concerned, I would like to focus on some of the points made by the Citizens' Counsellor, who, among other things, emphasises that the institutional framework is stricter in relation to the authorisation of parental leave for minors. The Citizens' Counsel insists that in the entire range of the bill under discussion there should be an explicit provision that, where referred to in the 'applicant' or 'applicant' law, the person who is entitled to benefit will also be considered to be the minor, regardless of his status. In relation to Article 7, which relates to the restriction of traffic in the geographical area concerned, there are several objections or concerns. In relation to paragraph 2 of Article, serious restrictions shall be imposed on the free movement of any asylum seeker from the original first reception area, i.e. where an interview is recorded, as well as the interview, in order to give him asylum or not, restrictions which depend on his individual behaviour. It is clear that the directive refers to individual decisions requiring individual use and we are concerned, given that serious restrictions on freedom of movement are being introduced for each applicant. Besides, according to the Citizens' Counselor, a reason that goes to the administrative sphere, which in this case is the need for rapid processing and effective monitoring of the application, cannot be a legitimate basis for a general restriction on personal freedom. Moreover, the competence of the Director of the Asylum Service to adopt a regulatory administrative act limiting the free movement of applicants for international protection is not consistent with the competences of that service. According to the Constitution, such a serious and regulatory restriction of personal freedom can only belong to the Minister of the Interior, in particular, in the area of Civil Protection. Objections from organisations and organisations active in the field shall also be raised in relation to the detention of vulnerable persons and applicants with disabilities. Their opposition to the provision of the possibility of administrative detention of minors, even on the basis of last need, is consistent. Administrative detention and any other form of deprivation of the freedom of children, which is exclusively linked to the legal status of their own or their parents as foreign citizens, is a violation of their rights, always runs counter to the principle of their best interests. It is, in principle, an unfavourable measure to the detriment of children based on their origin and cannot be justified as a last resort in the light of Article 37 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. In addition, detention and restriction of the freedom of children under unacceptable conditions and often for long periods in police detention centres, in port authorities and in pre-repeal centres, increase the violation of their rights and constitute inhumane and degrading treatment. I am also going to stand by Article 28 of the third part, which introduces a series of amendments to Law No.4375/16, many of which have as common denominator the pressure to speed up the asylum procedure, which is, of course, legitimate and objective, without always being provided for in order to ensure a fair and effective asylum system. The entire article is made up of twenty paragraphs, most of which are of course considered positive. I will comment on some of them, where specific problems are identified in our view. In relation to paragraphs 2 and 4 concerning the procedure for the appointment of the administrative director of the Refugee Authority, no agreement of the Selection Committee shall be required. The Selection Committee will recommend only three candidates and the decision to appoint will be taken by the Minister for Migration Policy, which we do not agree with. In addition, the Selection Committee shall be replaced by the Assistant Citizens' Counselor by the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Migration Policy. I think there are other areas that are called upon to cover these two faces and should not replace each other, excluding the presence of the civil assistant on this critical committee. Furthermore, a deadline is set for the appointment of members of the committee for 15 days and for the issue of a recommendation from the committee for thirty days, and if these deadlines are not met, the Minister shall take the decision on the appointment. The process of appointment of the director is simplified, but at the same time the role of the selection committee is weakened. So the whole process is getting heavy and becoming a ministret. I don't know if it's appropriate. In relation to paragraph 5, where the final decision of the Appeals Authority, which is the Secondary Committee on Asylum, is laid down in the Act in force, the decision passed by the Asylum Service, the Appeals Authority and the Court of Appeal shall, in the event that the asylum seeker decides to appeal, be final. The fact that the application is finalising earlier actually means that the asylum seeker may be deported earlier and there must be an insurance policy. For any action in relation to paragraph 20, where the question of ensuring timely delivery of the decision of the appeal committees to the parties concerned is regulated, we are left to the assurances we have received from the debate in the committee. In addition, paragraph 23 deletes the adoption of a ministerial decision with the criteria for appointment to the Board of Appeal, the supporting documents, the verification of applications. Why are all these appointment procedures and criteria being abolished? It does not agree with us that it is also a matter for the Minister to decide on appointments to the Board of Appeal without specific criteria. In conclusion, I would like to remind you that while from our beginnings as a species we did not stop moving towards a better destiny, we never reconciled the idea of the mass reception of refugees or immigrants. So it's right that George Bernard Shaw, when he says Hegel was right when he said that what we're definitely learning from history is that man never learned anything from history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr. Dannelly. Before giving the floor to Mr Saridis, Minister Vitsats has asked for the floor for the presentation of legislative improvements. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u33	I would just like to present the legislative improvements to you so that they can share them with the Members before their speech. The first is that at the end of paragraph 10 of Article 9 of the draft law elements (f) and (g) are added as follows: ‘f. To provide the applicants with proper medical care. G. Ensure the right of applicants to legal representation.’; It concerns the maintenance of the provisions in Article 9, that is to say, of detention and we are making the rights even more specific.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u34	Minister, because they're simple corrections, you can just file them. I don't think you need to read them. I'm saying it's a time economy. You can deposit them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u35	To be read.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u36	The most important.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u37	Read the most essentials.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u38	There is the second correction concerning women in pregnancy and lotteries. It's a grammar correction. There is a proper incorporation of the relevant provision of the Asylum Aids Directive, namely access to those who are detained and to family members, legal advisers and representatives. There is, in other words, not only communication, but also accessibility. The fifth relates to children of 16 to eighteen years of age, so that it is clear that the protection of minority is not affected. A serious correction is in Article 23 where the words ‘doctors of CEDEFOP’ are replaced by ‘appropriate trained doctors of public health service providers, including forensics’. It was a remark from the Ministry of Health primarily and it concerns victims of torture. Seventh correction is to clarify a number of issues. Mr. Danellis said something earlier. At the end of the case referred to in paragraph 5 of Article 28, the following subparagraph shall be added: ‘The application for annulment referred to in Article 64 may be made in the final decision’. Now, for the exceptional reasons, we have said from the outset that the words '... are given once and...' are deleted. There'll be a circular, etc. I'll see you in the end. in paragraph 4 of Article 31, the word ‘public’ is deleted; It's about the documents one might have. It could also be private documents. It is not necessary, in other words, to be public too. Finally, the provision shall be inserted: ‘The exceptional procedure referred to in Article 60(4) shall apply until 31.12.2018’. That is all, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The speech has also been made by the Secretary of State for the Interior, Maria Kollia - Charuha, on the amendment. If you too can, Madam Secretary, be as brief as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. These are some supplements and clarifications by Presidential Decree 141/2017 imposed by the Ministry of Interior. Restructured and reorganised all the services of the Ministry of Interior and of course the Macedonian-Thracian sector. The mission of the central agency in this sector is identical to that of the presiding agency of the former Ministry of Macedonia and Thrace, whose organisational continuity is typically a matter of principle, but also essentially a matter of principle. However, in the arrangements concerning the Macedonian-Thracy sector, which were incorporated into the third part of the recent presidential decree entitled ‘Organisation Structure of the Macedonian-Thracy Sector’ (Articles 45 to 64), no provision for operating in the more specific organisational structure of the Macedonian-Thracian sector, institutions or agencies such as the Legal Adviser Office of the State and the Court of Auditors has been included. And this, although the above-mentioned services existed before the Presidential Decree 141/2017, apart from the close core of the internal structure of the former Ministry of Macedonia and Thrace, but over time supporters and rewarders of the operation were specifically provided for by the prefectures and since 2001 by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. With the addition of the provisions, the mission of the Macedonian-Thracian sector is to be carried out, especially in the exercise of responsibilities, in which the Legal Counsel of the State participates. In particular, the acceptance of the Legal Adviser's opinions by the Secretary of State for the Interior as specified. Secondly, the participation of the Legal Counsel of the Office in collective bodies set up and formed within the framework of the former Ministry of Macedonia - Thrace and already the Macedonia - Thrace Department, such as the Central Council of Architecture of Macedonia - Thrace - the well-known KESAMATH - which participates in the Legal Counsellor as president as defined and adopted. Also, at the Central Council for Urban Affairs and Disputes of Macedonia - Thrace as President and its participation in Advisory Committees - the Advisory Committee referred to in Article 27 of the Treaty. Passport No: 4399/2016- as a member. The purpose of the proposed regulation is now to address the above-mentioned issues and to ensure the smooth and effective functioning of the Macedonian-Thracian sector. The second paragraph of the proposed regulation provides for the inclusion in paragraph 5 of Article 63 of Presidential Decree 141/2017 and the Environment Committee between the officials' formal qualifications in order to be able to head the Directorates for Private Investment in the Macedonia-Thracy Sector. This inclusion is deemed appropriate as it is not included. And we believe that, in the context of equality and the proper functioning of the administration, they should be involved, since they also exist as officials in the relevant Ministry. The aim of this rename - in the third paragraph of the article - of the Department of International Relations and Regional Policy in the Department of Regional Development and Depopulated Hellenism is the most accurate description of the object of this section and the avoidance of confusion with the Directorate for International Relations and Regional Policy, to which it falls. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Minister. The last speaker, Mr Saridis, has spoken on behalf of the Union for 15 minutes. Thank you, Mr. Colleague, for your patience.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u42	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, a war in Syria, extremely difficult living conditions in many parts of the world, the European Union was unable to deal with the problem at the source, more than two million refugees and immigrants on the coast of Asia Minor, more than two million human souls at the disposal of Mr Erdogan's arsenal, whose vision is a great Turkey. They're confusing our islands from the weight of the refugee. The Greeks got tired there, right. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] Management of the refugee - immigration has given arguments to forces seeking the country's isolation and calling it out of this Step. But no one can survive on their own. The burden of the refugee had to be spread evenly on Greek territory. We have not yet been able to resolve this either. Even the number of weight the Greek territory can withstand has not yet been determined. You are responsible, Minister, for what you have not done during your service. The European Union also has a responsibility, precisely the same. All of my fellow Members, in this Chamber, are well aware of the strength of words, simple words in political exercise, as well as the special weight they acquire, when they define and describe laws of the state, and indeed in a language, such as our own, the Greek language, which, if we want to, allows us more than others to appreciate. We must therefore begin by identifying the most important ambiguity that we have allowed into the draft law in question, which is not the translation of the English 'final decision', which we attributed to the Greek as a 'definitive decision'. This translation option is at the same time a legislative decision, ladies and gentlemen. This is not arbitrary at all. Many questions have been raised to every well-meaning citizen, as to why we choose this translation, especially since it already exists and is used with concrete, indeed, content in our legal language. While, on the contrary, the phrase ‘definitive decision’ causes vagueness and reflection, as the concept of a definitive decision on asylum seeker is not defined anywhere in Greek legislation. This ambiguity, of course, serves many specific reasons. The ambiguity is not random. In particular, in our Parliament, in the Greek Parliament, especially nowadays, I would say that ambiguity has become an art of law. So ambiguity is also the main reason why our party, the Centro Association, will be placed "at present" in this bill, in a useful and necessary tool, which has been lacking for so long, under the responsibility of the Ministry, by the Greek arsenal. After all, it is the fourth time that we have been trying to legislate on the same issues and we have been trying to incorporate a European directive in time, as it is known that we have been obliged to have done this already since 2015. Article 2 of the bill under discussion also contains other problematic options, apart from the introduction of definitions without content. For example, the term 'foreigners' has not been chosen, although it is more correct than the term 'third country citizen' and despite the fact that it is considered to be more practicable and it is certain that it would serve better the purpose of fully aligning the draft in question with the 1951 Geneva International Convention on the status of refugees. So this ambiguity no longer entitled to believe that it is random, is transferred and finds expression in the following articles. In Article 3, for example, it appears exactly where the immortal Greek bureaucracy is needed to continue its uninterrupted operation, i.e. delimiting the responsibilities between the most critical services, the Reception and Identification Service on the one hand and the Asylum Protection Directorate of the General Secretariat for Migration Policy on the other. Perhaps it would be useful to comment that this ambiguity should be avoided, as it is almost certain that it will lead to a conflict of competence in the future, and then clarification will be required, which will lead to possible delays, which will in itself necessitate the purposes of this draft law, which is to speed up these procedures. Unfortunately, however, this comment has nothing to offer, as it does not help to highlight the real reason why you went to this choice, which is nothing but your conscious decision to proceed with the famous "seeing and doing" project. On this point, to be fair, I too must admit that the refugee crisis is not solved and it is not going to be solved either by European directives, by Greek laws, or even by our own, unique and Greek amendments. It is not the solution, ladies and gentlemen, to our ability to use the Greek language as it suits us. As long as there is war and the threat of spreading it, even in our area, the more people will grow from their homes. Ladies and gentlemen, no one has claimed that we have the opportunity to legislate on the solution to the refugee crisis. All we can do - and that is exactly what we are trying to do today - is to define on behalf of the Greeks and, in cooperation with the international player, how we will treat as an organised state, as an organised state, not only what is already happening in our islands and cities, but also what is coming. First of all, I would like to welcome the determination with which Greece, with the provisions of Article 4, commits itself to minor children, which will in one way or another be found on its territory. It is good that the provisions of this bill also apply to minors, whether or not they are accompanied, whether or not they have submitted a request for international protection. However, I feel the need to point out that there is a concern that there may be articles where rightholders appear in express words as 'applicants' the interpretation that there is a limitation of their scope and that they are not included in them. Perhaps we should consider adding an explicit provision specifying that where the term 'applicant' as a beneficiary is mentioned in the law, it will also be understood as the minor, irrespective of his status. I also come to a proposal, Minister, for the improvement of Article 5, where, without a special document, I reassess the proposal that has been heard by the institutions - and I agree with it - that an additional paragraph should be added to Article 6 for persons with deafness, which provides that if the applicant is deaf, he should be informed by means of an interpreter. Ladies and gentlemen, Article 7 concerns the geographical limitation of the free movement of asylum seekers, and a lot can be said and a lot has already been said about this. The truth is that the predictions of this particular article and any relevant clarifications, which will certainly be required in the future, will be looking for answers if Mr Erdogan decides to reuse refugees in order to gain political and other benefits from the West and to seek a solution to the decongestion of our islands, without infringing the spirit or content of the joint declaration of Europe - Turkey. In short, Article 7 is called upon to describe the golden incision, the point, that is, the law where the government's effort is reflected, at the same time - and human rights, as described in the international treaties, as well as the rights of Greek citizens as laid down in the Constitution. In any case, it is certain that the provision omits the guarantees contained in the directive and leads to an infringement of the principle of proportionality, but also of Articles 3 and 5 of the ECHR. The restriction in the directive is introduced with a view to rationalising applicants for international protection in the territory of the Member State and not in such a restricted territorial area as the islands of the East Aegean, as it is reasonable and next that under such geographical restrictions the rights provided for in the directive cannot be effectively exercised, for example, access to employment, education and so on. These are also provided for in Decision 805/2018 of the CoC, which annulled the decision of the Director of the Asylum Service on the restriction of the marketing of applicants for international protection. However, the ambiguity and ambiguity of Article 7 does not deny the positive sign of Articles 8 and 9 concerning the procedure for detaining asylum seekers and their conditions of detention. The reference to the provisions of paragraphs 1 to 9 and 11 of Article 46 of L.4375 of 2016 is positive. Article 9 shall contribute to the fuller harmonisation of the provisions of the Directive, as far as possible, by providing for separate detention, as far as possible, of asylum seekers from other third-country nationals who have not applied for international protection, the possibility of open access to the UN High Commissioner for Refugees in detention areas, the possibility of communicating with members of his family, legal advisers, their lawyers, and particular attention shall be paid to vulnerable persons. This positive picture is, unfortunately, reversed in Article 10. This Article adopts the relevant wording of the Directive, which requires that the health, including the mental health of applicants in detention, is a primary concern of the national authorities and comes to supplement the insufficient harmonisation of Law No.4375/2016. However, as regards its regulation in the case of ‘a’ it is not permissible to provide for the possibility of an administrative detention of minors even on the basis of last need. Administrative detention and any other form of deprivation of the freedom of children, which is exclusively linked to the legal status of their own or their parents as foreign citizens, is a violation of their rights. It always contrasts with the principle of their best interest. It is firstly an unfavourable and distinctive measure to the detriment of children based on their origin and cannot be justified as a last resort either in the light of Article 37 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. In addition, detention and restriction of the freedom of children under unacceptable conditions and often for very long periods in police detentions, in port authorities and in pre-experienced centres increase the violation of their rights and constitute inhumane and degrading treatment. That is why we are proposing the removal of the relevant paragraph. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need two minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u43	Not two minutes, Mr. Comrade, but one.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, there are many ambiguities and we will certainly soon legislate again on the same subject. And we know. It is also true that this bill captures reality as the Greeks experience it. Our borders are at the same time a border between barbarity and culture, between fear and security, between war and peace. At our own borders, ladies and gentlemen, the entire Western civilization is considered. Every day, the behaviour of our officials of the Hellenic Armed Forces, of men and women of the Port Authority and of the Coast Guard proves to be worthy of history and of Greek culture. I would say that it is fair and proper to happen to us, to the Greeks, to our borders, to judge this case, because we have a great responsibility for this civilization we call 'west', because it was built on our own ideas that were born here, in this place and founded on texts in the Greek language. It is therefore our job to prove once again that despite our poverty, despite the obstacles and difficulties, despite the plight and misery, we can achieve the impossible. Neither will human rights be violated, nor will our sovereign rights. We will not make any discounts on humanity and our friendship, nor will we tolerate Mr Erdogan for a long time. Ladies and gentlemen, they may be talking about human rights at the moment, but at the same time we are counting days. The Koklatzis and Metretites count seventy - seven days today. But we didn't only count for days, because the days of Mr. Erdogan are counted. Whatever the result of the elections in question, the message sent by the determination of the allies in Jerusalem that you have chosen - and you have done well - is not translated into the Turkish language. And Mr. Erdogan will count days. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u45	So because we have to be done at 20.00, I ask for the cooperation of all of you and not anyone who comes up in the Step does not care about the followers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u46	But, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u47	I'm not talking about you. I'm generally speaking from now on. It wasn't personal. I'm saying, let's know. Now listen to me. Now, three fellow Members who have been written, Mrs Cavvadia, Mr Charakopoulos and Mr Carras, will begin. Then Mr Balafas will speak on behalf of the government. Mr. Vitsats will speak at the end to answer the colleagues who may have made suggestions or asked questions. After Mr Balafa, I will in turn begin to ask the parliamentary representatives, except Mrs Vaki, who knows that she wants to speak last, unless she wants to speak first in turn.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u48	Not necessarily. Put me first, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u49	Okay. I'll ask the parliamentary order, as it goes. If anyone doesn't want me, I'll go to the next one. I am therefore saying this because three parliamentary representatives have asked for the floor and we are not going to fight who will speak first or second. I'll take them on the basis of the parliamentary order. Then we will talk for a few minutes the Minister for Health who wants to make an intervention, we will go to the next colleagues, to the next Parliamentary and so on. I will give the floor to Mrs Annetta Cavadia. Because, in fact, my colleague has spent many years as a journalist and knows the use of time, I am sure she will be consistent. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u50	I always do, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, one day like today, in a bill like today, I could only begin with what is happening in Palestine, which is experiencing a bitter anniversary, after seventy years of the disaster, from 'Nakba', when seven hundred thousand Palestinians with the establishment of the State of Israel on 15 May 1948 were expelled from their land. Palestine, which lamentes sixty-six dead and thousands injured in a murderous attack by the Israeli army, in a real massacre, which is unfortunately being dealt with by the international community with outrageous indifference and indulgence about restraint. Pontius Pilate and equal distance behaviours in a cynical attempt to simulate the victim with the victim. In this Chamber, ladies and gentlemen, on December 22, 2015, the Greek Parliament was fascinated, we had all played our full support for the Palestinian people, recognising unanimously the state of Palestine and reaffirming our country's firm position to create an independent and viable Palestinian state at the 1967 border, the capital of East Jerusalem and the peaceful coexistence of the two states. But peace cannot exist without justice. That is why the condemnation of the natural and also moral perpetrators of yesterday's mass murder must be unequivocal and unequivocal. Without 'yes but'. Especially from a country such as Greece, whose historical ties with Palestine remain intact. And this is something that I was given the opportunity to repeat, but also to see for myself when about two weeks ago I was in Ramallah and Hebron. Ladies and gentlemen, coming to the bill. It is indeed unfortunate to say that Europe is facing a refugee crisis. The word 'crisis' suggests something extraordinary and temporary that can be dealt with by emergency measures. What Europe is facing is a move of unprecedented populations after the end of World War II. Around her, and in her wider neighborhood, there is a circle of fire, horror, tyranny, war and unscrupulous misery from which everyone wants to escape. So there are no illusions that the problem will be solved by means of preventing or limiting refugees and immigrants in the so-called front-line countries. The refugee - immigration phenomenon will not disappear as magically. It is here to stay and it will perhaps be the main European challenge for years, if not decades. Therefore, hiding Europe or even part of it, the preservative, its head in the sand to avoid reality, is not just hypocritical. It's criminal. Modern beets, ladies and gentlemen, are multiple victims: victims of persecution and horrific violence at their place, victims of traffickers' circuits, victims of the trench surrounding Europe - a fortress and victims of racism and exploitation, if they manage to survive and reach a European 'professional'. In all this, it is not natural phenomena, it is the result of specific political choices. The most tragic, however, and at the same time outrageous in all of this, is that these choices could be completely different. The European Union could, instead of military operations, organise and finance a lasting research and rescue operation in the Mediterranean to prevent loss of life. It could create legal and safe outlets for asylum seekers so that they do not turn on traffic circuits and put their lives at risk at sea. It could cover immediate humanitarian needs or even absorb in the long term the bulk of the refugee flows and at less costs than the establishment of Europe - fortress, if there was simply a balanced distribution in all the Member States instead of caging them in the first-stage countries. These deficits in the European reaction have been recorded on several occasions in the relevant resolutions of the Council of Europe's Parliamentary Assembly where, at every opportunity, members of the Greek delegation, MPs and MPs, are addressing these issues and we insist on the need for a comprehensive European approach based on international law, solidarity between European states, respect for human rights and humanism. These assumptions can and should form the basis for a genuine understanding between the democratic political forces of the country. But on a necessary condition: we must all agree that there is an urgent need to unite all the democratic and progressive forces and citizens of the country on a common front towards the right-wing and fascism. Because, ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of the refugee - immigration, the hideous and dangerous face of the far right has unfortunately regained head in Europe. And not just on the margin of politics. It has now become common to adopt the systemic conservative forces in Europe, unfortunately, and in our country, the rhetoric and the agenda of the extreme right, with the argument that 'we must not give space to the far right'. If the solution proposed by some to avoid giving space to the Right, it is to understand this space "normal" right, let us say it openly. We, however, must testify to our vertical opposition to this slippery path and reflect that what we all have to do is to condemn without spins and without reservation, any racist and fascist behaviour and not to raise with our rhetoric appallingly invoking the doctrine of'security and awe', as the New Democracy colleagues are doing, in line with the rhetoric of the Golden Dawn. Obviously, ladies and gentlemen, solutions to these problems cannot be fragmentary and - most importantly - they cannot take into account the real facts at political and legal level. With regard to the draft law we are debating today, even before it was tabled and through the parliamentary procedure, we have already achieved a good level of political debate, which has enabled us - and everyone recognises this - to have several improvements to its content, possibly creating the basis for the elementary conciliation that I have already spoken about. Of course - and I am closing with this, Mr President - the refugee - immigration is an issue of such complexity that no legislation in itself can solve it. We must therefore continue efforts so that we can talk about a European policy on immigration and asylum, which respects the human values of our legal culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u51	Me too, Mrs. Cabadia. Mr Maximos Charakopoulos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u52	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, for over three years the immigration issue has become a major issue, a 'bomb', which is ready to explode at any time in Lesvos, where Moria is synonymous with impoverishment and lawlessness, in Chios, in Samos, in Evros, where flows are increased daily. Undoubtedly, before SYRIZA's election, the problem existed, but never in the uncontrolled dimension, which it took after January 2015, because then some ideas about immigrants who are melting and disappearing became a semi-official ideology of new governance and local societies were left to their fate. Mr. Tsipras also lived in Lesvos, where, as in Chios, he was greeted with downrooted rolls and with a great gathering of protests of a universal character, which, of course, Mr. Tsipras and SYRIZA, with their well-known biased logics, gave to far-rights, accusing the ordinary citizens of the island, underestimating their anguish for their degraded lives, for fear that they now nested in their daily lives. Because in the government, despite landing in the harsh reality, there are many more those who are actually blinded by their obsessions, because they do not want to assume their serious responsibilities, as they do every time there is a problem, as they do for Exarches, for crime, for lawlessness at the TEIs. They fly'slash' in the New Democracy and they think they're out of their minds. But there is a mistake of erection. And they speak this way when Ankara for reasons of extortion of Greece and Europe is rapidly increasing migration flows, even creating new routes that are dangerous to our national security in Evros, but also by sea on the shores of Thrace, as was recently done by boat, which unloaded migrants on the coast of Rhodope. And we ask: if it is difficult to guard the sea borders - yes, the sea has a maritime border, now Mr Tsipras has learned it - why cannot land borders be guarded? Is this the image of a serious sovereign state? Are you still in favour of demolition of the fence in Evros supporting your executives? Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill comes with a characteristic delay, without public consultation and preparation, after we arrived in 2017 in fifty-eighty thousand sixty-sixty asylum requests and this year - so far - in some thirteen thousand fifty-five thousand, with every request for six or more months to be examined. The bill seeks to alleviate the situation in the new ghetto created by SYRIZA, the same who went out to "the tiles" for Amygdaleza, in the ghettos where, in fact, they dominate inhuman conditions and find cases of human exploitation and violence, with the victims ultimately of refugees, migrants and local communities. One part of the solution is clear: Accelerating the process of examining asylum claims, making a clear separation of refugees and immigrants. It is a good fact, Minister, to increase the independent committees to the Appeals Authority. However, the main aspect of the solution is the returns. Turkey will have to respect the agreement, and this is certainly a task that requires Europe's cooperation and coordination. Decongestion of hot spots on the islands is a necessity. However, this should not result in the transfer of the problem to mainland Greece or, of course, in increasing inputs, in sending a wrong signal to the other side. However, there is a serious gap in the action of non-governmental organisations, and no Europe needs to tell us or help us. What is happening in all these regions is well known. A number of NGOs, without a regulatory framework, with unknown donors and invisible targets, have in some cases become a state in a state, acting in the populations of refugees and migrants, from regions where intolerance and extreme ideologies are particularly widespread. We understand that many NGOs, who are friendly to the government, operate in this loose framework, that there are hundreds of 'convergences' within them. But when we talk about national security, that kind of thing doesn't fit. There is no doubt, Mr President, that the refugee - immigration - is primarily a European problem. Greece is lifting multiple weights of what it receives, with the risk of becoming a permanent storeroom of souls. Unfortunately, not all European states have shown the necessary solidarity in countries such as Greece, which are gateways to the entry of migrants and refugees. It is therefore necessary to implement the relocation programme of refugees and migrants in all the countries of the European Union. However, it is also essential to ensure effective border guarding, as is the absorption of the ponds of European funds. To conclude, the refugee - immigration is not a problem that defers. It is a question that threatens social cohesion itself and integrated solutions must be given today and not semi-metres, such as the provisions we are discussing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u53	Me too, Mr. Harakopoulou. We're closing the first triad of speakers with Mr. Carras. Here, Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] The issue that arises when we discuss a bill on immigration policy or the refugee issue, which is on the frontline of Greece and in order to find an answer to whether the bill is positive and will solve problems, is to assess the current situation and in this case the Turkey-European Union statement on 18 March 2016 and its implementation. And why am I on it? Because on 18 March 2016 there was the joint statement, which required Greece to take action and on 1 April 2016 came the bill on n. It is assumed that the protection of migrants and refugees, as well as making it easier for the procedures to be dealt with in accordance with this declaration, will be dealt with. What did the statement say? Those who have no right to international protection will return to the islands and those who enjoy international protection will be able to move. What happened to all this? Unfortunately, nothing. Because Turkey accepts limited refunds. This is also due to our responsibility, because we have introduced luxurious and endless procedures. We are therefore giving arguments to our neighbours not to follow what they have committed. We are also giving arguments to the Europeans, who after the Visegrad agreement, after the closure of the Balkan road, are basically no longer accepting immigrants or refugees and always putting it into question. And I do not need to remind you of the recent Orban-Kurtz meetings or the statements made last week. So let's go see it. As far as I am concerned, the assessment of the agreement - a declaration by the European Union - Turkey is a heterogeneous defender of Turkey. We, therefore, failed to achieve what the treatment of refugees - immigration could give us, and we were simply in the process. And we're trying today to change the law a little - and I'm talking about n. 4375 - for which we have had the opportunity today to give an immediate answer, to give immediate solutions. Instead, we have chosen - and here you will allow me to be burnt - to create a new establishment. Where am I talking? It was invented that we should have appeal committees - we called them independent - by judicial officers to give the right to protection of all these people. Indeed, we need to give it up. But we gave it four times, if you want. One cannot question that the Asylum Service is working. The Minister himself gave us the evidence that the decisions of the Independent Committees of Appeal 98% are rejected and they validate the decisions of the Asylum Service. So what did we do? We have managed to create an endless process that works not only at the expense of the country, but also at the expense of the implementation of the agreement - a declaration by Turkey - the European Union. These are not arbitrary elements which I invoke. If we look at the reports, which are published every three months by the European Union in order to inform the European Council and the European Parliament, we are told - with the diplomatic language of course - that returns from the agreement are not satisfactory, that relocations are not satisfactory. So where are we going? So let's go look for the man responsible? Where are we going to look for him? Obviously we have to look for him in the government. And I am not just talking about the present moment in the legislature. I'm referring to n. 4375. Because, of course, we Greeks also found a solution. After we wanted to put judges in the committees, we also found the solution to give them a second salary. The committees, the judges and the member - and of course this has never been mentioned - which is proposed by the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, are paid separately. I'll do a parentheses here. I don't want to be a master of evil. Do you know that you have paid a second salary to the judges of the committees? I have received questions as to whether those judges who are not members of the committees are entitled to take the payroll. Because they too offer judicial work and will be claiming the extra payroll tomorrow. And if they claim an extra payroll, you yourself will be accused after the Members of Parliament, whoever Members have appealed to the administrative courts to claim the disputes. Have you taken this into account, Minister? It's a parentheses about the bill. I put them in your knowledge to see how you deal with this. Therefore, instead of improving, by limiting a few deadlines, we are staying in the problem as such. I'll come to the point. Is there any possibility of dealing with the procedure with full protection of rights? I will stay in the directives and in Directive 2013/32, which determines two degrees of judgment: the administrative grade before the Asylum Office and the judicial degree before the ordinary courts. So why not follow this system, simplify, remove the objections that we both receive from Europe and Turkey, that we do not render and therefore do not have to implement the declaration, are not obliged to return, are not required to relocate? I have tabled an amendment - known to my fellow Members, I have also notified the Ministry - to which I refer: give a solution by simplifying the procedure. We live in the Asylum Service. The Asylum Service may perform well if it is strengthened by staff. It delivers and protects the rights of asylum seekers. In the event that they are not satisfied, they should go to the administrative courts to judge in the form of substantive appeals, to be judged there to a first and last degree. I have to say another thing: the time limits that the government introduces for the adoption of decisions on asylum applications are always indicative. No one can force anyone to the impossible, no one can oblige or say that an act is annulled either by an administrative or court because it has exceeded a deadline. It's only intense hint while it's not void. I would therefore ask you to stand up to the amendment that I have tabled. Because of time I cannot develop it any more. I believe, however, that it will improve procedures, improve performance and possibly contribute to a solution. As long as we persist in successive procedures for the same subject of laws and bring, as many as we vote, a solution is not given and the problem will be dealt with over time and permanently. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u55	Me, too. The Foreign Minister for Migration Policy has the floor now, Mr Balafas. In order not to follow Mrs Vakis, who is from the same party, Mr Germenis, who is a fourth speaker, will be inserted, and then Mrs Vakis will be given the floor. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by saying that over a million refugees and immigrants have been in our country for the last three years. In the first period, until March 2016, these people, on the presumption, passed through the country and were driven, self-driven, moved to the north, to the countries of central and northern Europe, which were generally wanted to go. After the closure of the borders - I would stress this - we will again talk about the closure of the borders - and the joint declaration by the European Union and Turkey, which is being treated shamefully in some respects, as if it were not there, things have changed and been caught in our country, a figure that today is about fifty-five-five thousand people who do not want to stay in our country. Still, they've been locked up all this time. Let us not forget, however, that in our country - and not by accident - over six hundred thousand economic, basically, migrants are still in existence, and how they came mainly to our country. When did this story start? It has started thirty years ago when the then Prime Minister opened the borders and said, "Come to work in the fields", where there was a need for workers' hands, on herds, where there was also a need for workers' hands. Also, this world came before the 2004 Olympics, where they again wanted cheap and available for every possibility and case of labour for the great projects of the Olympic Games. This is the picture today when we talk about immigration - refugee and not let off the side of the fifty, fifty-five thousand who were caught in our country against their will and against our own will, of course, and also our own country. The draft law, which we are debating today, deals with both of these, let us say, categories and, in particular, the issue of legitimate immigrants in the second category, the many, hundreds of thousands. We are talking - through exceptional reasons - about the exceptional examination of their requests for residence permits to come out of undeclared, hidden work to light, people are normally paid for as long as they work in jobs that, as a general rule, I shall refer to the end - there are no Greeks. From there on, on the basis of this picture, I would like to make three comments. First comment: The bill tries to deal with the difficulties that exist in this big issue, where there is no "the solution", but the need for the best management possible. You do not "clean" with this topic, "we solve it and it's over". It is trying to tackle these issues realistically, proactively. The bill accepts two criticisms, and so do we. One is that the bill is making things worse, that already terrible conditions make them more terrible. There is also the other criticism that says “How many allowances you give! Benefits! Forget Greeks and take care of refugees and immigrants!' Usually the rule is - there are exceptions - when both sides are criticized, you're probably on the right track. And I will say why we are on the right track, in my opinion, of course. First of all, who disputes that the asylum seeker from ancient times, the beetle must be protected? This is our tradition as Greeks from ancient times until today. In this world, therefore, the refugee population that enters our country is obliged, not only by international, European and Greek law, to protect it. And we are a country in crisis, with our compatriots growing up and angry about the political situation in general, economic and social. That is why our measures always have the characteristic of balance, not that of battling from here or there. This is how we have always dealt with issues over the years that we have been in the country's governance. That's why they're both critics who appear to be from different directions, they're wrong. Another issue is the money given for the management of the refugee. Ladies and gentlemen, this money is basically funding from the European Union. The Greek Treasury, the Greek State, could not face this huge cost. So don't lie to the Greek people. It's European Union money. She pays - so to speak popular - the apartments in the cities of Greece, where families of refugees are staying in a harmonious relationship with the Greek population. And they are hotel apartments, which are rented through the High Authority and development companies - companies many times of self-government - or a small allowance, a small support that goes to local communities. This is why self-government both in Athens and Thessaloniki and in Livadia and in Heraklion and in other cities has embraced this process, which favours local communities. And it has embraced this process, and in many cases both the Church of Greece and the commercial world. The others are just lies. The second issue facing the bill: the great problem of enclaving these thousands of people in the country as a whole, on our islands and on the north-eastern Aegean in particular. Listen, there's a law in physics, that there's a problem when the inflow into a system is bigger than the outflow. You should tell us proposals for that. I repeat: When the influx is greater than the outflow, what do we do? Of course, I don't put crocodiles in the Aegean. Can I tell you something? And crocodiles to put on when the other guy knows there's gonna be a bomb down in Syria, in Aleppo, and he's got his kid, he's gonna start to go somewhere where there's no bomb down on his kid. And that's what's happening! So the influx is much greater than the outflow. What's going on? Today - and in committee all or almost all of the speakers - consider, even in a cowardly way, the joint declaration of the European Union - Turkey and consider that this declaration should be implemented. From that point on, you have to keep in mind two things when you make suggestions. Firstly, that the borders are closed and, secondly, that there is no European solidarity from many Member States. We cannot forget that when we make proposals. We seek a few things with our bill or policy - I do not want to repeat them - from speed up to change in European legislation, from relocation, relocation, until returns or family reunification are applied again. I repeat: Magic solutions to this refugee - immigration are not there. Some people say? Get everyone out of the islands. So they will all leave the islands and the next day, not to say earlier, equal numbers will come across the street, unless someone believes - as it once happened on some Aegean island - that we have to shoot people when they come from across the coast or when the poachers take out the pepper...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u57	When did this happen, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u58	In 2014, however, it did not happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u59	Mr. Athanasios, I was hoping you wouldn't speak. You're off line on these issues, I mean your own line. Think about that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u60	When did this happen with the shots?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u61	In any case, we talked so well, listen to the other point of view. Learn to listen, both because of professional background and scientific. With mathematical accuracy, then, the next day comes an equal number. Secondly, I have heard a proposal: to come all of the islands here, in the mainland, to enter some temporary hospitality structures, which are excellent for the situation, to take papers and to go to the country they want. If it was that simple, what are we, lunatics not to do it? I don't understand that. Do you not understand that the borders are closed and that Europe does not accept this world? So how do you say so easily to take the papers and go to these countries? I repeat that there are no magical solutions. Anyone who believes that there are solutions, whether he does not know - that is one case - or - the other case - is lying. Unfortunately, the refugee - immigration, not only in Greece, much less in Greece, but above all in the countries of Europe, determines by a negative sign, to a large extent now, consciences, political behaviours, electoral trends and helps to develop phenomena, such as xenophobia, racism and neo-naziism, which unfortunately rises this snake, neonazi, in many countries of Europe. Unfortunately, we have had both these days and within the House the wording of such a 'clean', racist, xenophobic rhetoric. In our view, there must be no reassurance of any kind. We need vigilance and we need a clear front of all the democrats, all the democratic arch, without exceptions. You know what? I don't make comparisons easy with the '30s or '40s. But many times I feel - and not just myself - that the nazi scapegoat in the years of the '30s and '40s, which was the Jew - although anti-Semitism still has not gone away - is today and is used as a riot for all things, corresponding to that time, the refugee and the immigrant, the different in general. And in this poison, which seeks to cross into society from neonazi rhetoric and practice, our forehead must be inconsistent. The monster is not at liberty, Mr. Athanasios, because you have intervened beforehand.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u62	Mr. Germenis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr President. The debate on the bill, which took place in committees with the presence of bodies, was particularly revealing. Not that we did not know that most of those who came embrace your own ideas, but that even they revealed evidence of the refugee, which we call illegal immigration, which has been mentioned by the Golden Dawn for many decades. Of course, when Golden Dawn says it, they are fascists, anti-democrats, but when your own people say it, it's something different and you're trying to bend over, to solve these problems with some alleged piece of legislation, such as this here today, with which you are calling to correct another piece of legislation that you brought in 2016 and you are now moving to Parliament to correct some things. Instead of correcting them - and many would expect you to make a mistake, because you have been a new government since 2016 - and say that this problem, illegal immigration, you have not seen it correctly, you have an idea that goes beyond your patriots. You are internationalists, you are defenders of society without borders, of open borders and a number of such bulbs as George Soros says. You don't hide it. And you don't hide it when even the Minister from this party mentioned some things and said about immigrants who came 30 years ago, about cheap workers' hands, that they opened the border with Albania. Let me remind the Minister that Albania then had a communist regime. And if there was a socialist paradise, like communism, they'd stay in Albania, they wouldn't come to Greece. In 2004 you said they came for cheap workers to build the properties of the Olympic Games. Now, right now, in 2018, hordes of immigrants or illegal immigrants coming - tell them as you like - what are the cheap working hands? Where are you gonna get these people to go to work? There's business in Greece, and we don't know it? Here there are no jobs for the Greeks that you said there are jobs that the Greeks would not do. What are these jobs, where the Greeks don't go? Since unemployment is huge, aren't they going to the fields? What fields are we talking about? What is your policy on agricultural matters? What does Greece export right now? Where are they going to work? Pick up some olive? You say what happened in ancient times and that the beetle was entitled to asylum. Where exactly have you read these? Where was she entitled to asylum? Sparta? Athens? Macedonia? Let me remind you that Pericles had no right to vote for him, even his son himself, because Aspasia wasn't Athenia. So don't say some things you don't even know about. You put an ashtray inside, you talk about cheap working hands, when they don't want to stay in Greece to work. However, they do not go to any other European country. In Germany where do people work? Do they work at ‘MERSEDES - BENZ’? Do they work in 'RENAULT' in France? They're in metropolitan towns, they're ghettos and they're working at the parade trade in big countries. See what's going on in London, Berlin, Paris. They don't work for a big company. No one accepts them. Do you want to say what the High Commissioner told you in committee? He said that it is an innovation for Greece and for the countries of the European Union to the widest extent of the regulation laid down in Article 2(11) and (22). In other words, bring in provisions that even the High Commissioner has not even thought of applying them! You are talking about integrating unaccompanied children, which does not guarantee that they do belong to the families in which you incorporate them. What will be the identification insurance for these children, when we all know what is going on, a twisted activity, from traficking to paedophilia. Men are coming, saying they have three or four women, that they have fifteen and twenty children. That's not us, the bad Golden Dawn, your people say it. The reason is that no other European state has adapted this directive to its legislation. Only you have the courage today and you bring it to the Greek Parliament! Let's see what the Eastern Aegean Regional Admiral, who is clearly not a golden man. I read them as he said in committee: 'The last twenty-five days, i.e. from 1 April to today, have come to the islands of the northern Aegean in total two thousand and thirty-six migrants and refugees, when the corresponding number of 2017 was only six hundred ten. Lesvos currently has eight thousand eight hundred ninety-five immigrants and refugees and the corresponding number last year, on this day, was three thousand fifty." The whole of the North Aegean last year, such a day, that is on April 26, has a total of six thousand immigrants and refugees, and this year we have thirteen and a half thousand immigrants and refugees. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Also, the same picture describes mayor Orestiada, who is not a golden man, who said for himself: "Because I and my associates are also in the streets and do informal counting, there were more than anyone you say, because some of the refugees or immigrants, if they knew the procedures, would like to be recorded. It's just, maybe, it's not among those who address the circuits, because we have to say truths.” What, then, do all these representatives denounce? That there are smugglers and immigrants' circuits, which many of them came to the committee the other day, who pocket the fat wages and share the 400 euros to these people as well. Who Greek who enters a country is premiumed with 400 euros and has free health? No Greek has. In fact, if he doesn't have seventy days of alcohol, he's not going to go to a public hospital, he won't be safe. This is where you legislated. And if I remember well, at the seventy days you did ninety for the Greeks. I'll talk about the crazy case, about the lawyers. He has a lawyer, the illegal immigrant, who works with him, and you say now - world patents, it's not happening anywhere! - that the performance of the prosecutor, the judge, a public service, will no longer be taken by the lawyer, but will be looking for the state to find out where each Hassan is, where he has gone to Greek territory to do his service. On the other hand, every Greek citizen in this country is served by his lawyer. They tell him "Take the paper, find your client and do the performance."
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u64	Please finish, Mr. Germenis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u65	I shall conclude, Mr President. Will the Greek state be looking to find a man who we do not know whether the information it has given is the normal ones to make a service from a state body? These are unprecedented things, and you don't have to be a golden man to tell them. These are just everyday things that had to have a serious, at least, European state solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u66	The floor will be taken by Mrs Vakis, as a parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, followed by the Minister of Health for seven minutes, Mr Katsotis and then Mr. Dendias. I'm saying this to be prepared. Here, Mrs. Vakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u67	Thank you very much, Mr President. Before entering my speech on the bill, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to say a few words about the events in Gaza. We strongly condemn the murderous attack by the Israeli State army against demonstrators in the Gaza Strip, which results in the death of dozens of people, the injury of thousands, including children, elderly people. It is an incident that will definitely be written in black and indelible colors in world history and culture. Evidently, at the moment, we need the administration of international justice and restraint. Only self-restraint should be addressed to the Israeli state. In the face of such a disproportionate blow, the appeal cannot maintain regular equal distances. I imagine, therefore, that a resolution should also be drawn from the Greek Parliament for such an event.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u68	Let the government condemn it first!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u69	He's been convicted, Mr. Syncis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u70	Not from the government!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u71	He's been convicted. There's a series of communications. I'll talk about the bill in the time I have left. I am currently speaking as a parliamentary representative of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u72	I'm sorry, Mrs. Vakis, for ten seconds to make an announcement so that the kids won't wait. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, thirty-nine students and students and four educational attendants from the 1st Municipal School of Agios Nikolaos Lassithi. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u73	Mr President, if I may, I would like to read a resolution adopted by the Bureau of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u74	Continue your speech and you'll testify it at the end anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, in 2016 in the Greek, a human river of refugees protested, writing on small cardboard banners: "We are human". The ever-increasing refugee flows and their European policy of managing them, which goes away from the humanitarian authorities, divert the concept of human rights and the womb that gave birth to them: the Europe of lights, the rule of law and democracy. If, in the 18th century, human rights were based on the abstract concept of a single and uniform nature, which guarantees equal rights for all, without asterisks, in the 20th century, the role of the guarantor of rights is to be exercised by humanity. In the last day, they are desecrating both the increased flows of refugees, which will only stop if the cause for them is eliminated, i.e. wars with great, side-effects on peace and stability and the closed borders policy adopted by Europe. The daily inconvenience imposed by the credit articles of the technocratic priests of austerity gives rise to intolerance to the foreign, the refugee, the immigrant, who is treated as the scapegoat, in which all the sufferings of the crisis are displayed and therefore exile and unwanted. The arsonisms of refugee camps, walls erected, deafening denials in the number of refugees in European countries, intentions even to seize the honorable despair of people and the seabed of the Mediterranean, are symptoms of an anemic, clutchy democracy and human sacrifice on the altar of the extreme right that is threatening racism and violence. Two years ago, the exterior of the Memorandum Greece became the workshop of moral and political emotions of hospitality, solidarity and humanity, embraced and crushed by the outdated, with banners in the ports writing "good!", with a box of milk from the backbone, with the inclusion of the refugees in education. The baker of Kos and the lady of Lesvos became synonyms of an open, tolerant, solidarity and democratic society. The disproportionate burden, however, which our country has suffered, the entanglement of thousands of despaired people in the Aegean islands and the refusal of European countries to share responsibility, they have tested tolerances, racially reflexive, and have brought to the fore again the neo-nazi invasion battalion that has taken place in the lands of desperation, exhausting their barbarity to people unarmed, as recently happened in the Sapphi square of Mytilini. So we are discussing today in plenary the incorporation of the directive on the requirements for the reception of applicants for international protection. I would like to add that, although it is not possible to incorporate it in the Greek legal system, it cannot, however much as it may wish, be a necessary treaty to resolve the problem. I would say, rather, that a salmon solution that is attempting to balance between the requirements of a Europe, but also the domestic opposition that will shortly be invoking the Geneva Treaty as an open borders policy and the government's will, not just to make a management of the pain of the uprooted, but to soften it up if not to eliminate it. Ladies and gentlemen, although the refugee and immigration issue should not be a field of secondment of political added value, its management shows, however, the right-wing dividends. If, for the first time, immigrants and refugees are sometimes treated as parrots and indivisibles, they are rights holders of inalienable rights and co-people to whom they must ensure a decent living and integration into the social fabric. The opposition's sensitivity to the indeed pressurised inhabitants of the Aegean islands, who demand the removal of geographical restrictions on the islands, is selective, but not to the thousands who are impoverished that their caging - not to forget - was already explicitly provided for in the agreement between the European Union and Turkey. That is to say, the horrors for the inhabitants of the islands and the screaming at the same time that the geographical restriction should not be lifted. This is one of the acid or absurdities with which the opposition speech has recently familiarized us. The brave reinforcement of administrative services and the subsequent abbreviation of the time to examine asylum requests, without being rough and fragmented, reduces the adverse consequences of not removing geographical restrictions and promotes a more dignified living in residence centres. The provisions concerning the maintenance of the definition of vulnerable groups, unaccompanied minors whose care now goes beyond the responsibility of the Directorate-General for Social Solidarity of the Ministry of Labour. The positive provisions relating to direct access to information material, but especially to medical care, which now includes psychiatric care, and education, and even to young people who have exceeded eighteen years. Furthermore, the provision for educational activities within the units and hosting centres is also important. I have therefore referred to a positive incorporation into our regulatory framework, but, as I have said before, it is a necessary but not a sufficient condition to resolve the problem. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be honest. The solution goes through Europe and does not seem visible on the basis of its existing correlations. On the initiative of the present Government and the Greek Prime Minister, the alliance of the countries of the South was established as a lever for the lifting of the neoliberal doctrine of austerity and the reconstruction of a Europe of democracy and the social state. Let us create an alliance between the countries of the South against us of other austerity, the austerity of democracy, the austerity of respect for international law and austerity in solidarity. Let a front be formed, which will force the European Union finally to assume its responsibilities in the distribution of responsibilities for the refugee and immigration issue. It is a shameful burden of blood, which humanity pays to the complex geopolitical games of the Middle East. We said it at first. In Gaza, right now, there are children dead under the age of sixteen. Globalization faded the free and uninterrupted movement of goods and capital and closed the road to the deceased and unearthed by their homes, to smash them to the traffickers or to get rid of them as a rampant merchandise. There are millions of stateless, insurmountable, unrighteous people, people without qualities, some lost objects, lost slavery or slave labor. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President, and I shall be coming to an end. The spirit from which every policy for the management of the refugee and immigration must be fully respected of human rights, with the hope and the wish that Hannah Arnd's claim not to be verified on the day after the Second World War, when he wrote that the concept of human rights, based on the supposed existence of a human being as such, collapsed at the same time as those who evidently believed in it, were for the first time faced with people who, in fact, lost all other qualities and specific relationships, except that they were still human. And if international practices and policies applied are unfortunately deprived of asylum seekers and fundamental rights protection, let us at least try not to deprive them of their dignity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u76	Mrs Vaki, you can submit it to the Minutes too, if you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u77	I put it to you, Mr President, in the Minutes. It is a resolution of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u78	Mr. Xanthos has the floor for seven minutes, then Mr. Katsotis and Mr. Dendias. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I felt my obligation to intervene in today's debate, because I think we are dealing with an important bill, which concerns the overall care and management of a major social and political problem, which is the refugee - immigration issue and which also has a dimension - I think it is important - health. Obviously, we have a great challenge not only for our country, but for Europe as a whole. The case of the immigration-refugee issue is a matter which is a divisive part of Europe's societies and countries. It's a field of harsh political conflict. It is used by political forces as a tool for reordering the political scene in too many countries and, of course, is a very tough separating line between the extreme right-wing nationalist political forces and the progressive and democratic forces. In this sense, therefore, the perspective and approach of every political force on every provision and regulation, I think it is of particular political importance. So what we are claiming, ladies and gentlemen, is that our country, despite the terrible difficulty of the crisis, despite its bankruptcy, despite the austerity measures and the restrictions that were in place, has achieved these three years, with difficulties, revolts, problems and adversities, with open wounds yet to face in general with sensitivity, humanity and dignity, to save Europe's honour and to give a very important signal to the European space for how a country can be in real difficulty, when there is a strong political will, to tackle such a great humanitarian disaster in a way. So that is what I think is very critical. In these years, ladies and gentlemen, despite the prophecies of some people that the health bomb will explode, that we will have an outbreak of epidemics and infections in the country, no health bomb has been activated and we have succeeded seriously, with a plan, coordinated use of all available health forces and with a constantly upgraded presence of the state and public structures, this problem does not turn into a public health problem. We have achieved this with timely preventive intervention, with eighty thousand vaccinations carried out on camps, with constant care for the people who lived and continue to live today in difficult conditions, using European funds. In the first phase through a European programme, the so-called ISF, we have been able to hire for the islands of the north-eastern Aegean, a hundred sanitary forty people, mainly supporting public structures and giving a relief to the pressed societies and the pressed structures of the ESS and its human resources. In the second period, through another European programme, IMF and the operational responsibility of CEDEFOP, we have taken six hundred and thirty-three health doctors, fewer doctors, but more nurses, psychologists, midwives, CEDEFOP crews, intercultural mediators. Of these two hundred have been placed on the Aegean islands and the four hundred thirty-three, about, are in the mainland. We have therefore managed to create primary health care nuclei within open hospitality areas. Half of them have been placed in the structures of the ESS, in health centers, in hospitals nearby and they really support the work that these structures provide throughout the population. With L.4368, which was a major part of the country's health and social policy, we really gave the signal and signal that health and access to health care cannot be discriminated against, exclusions and inequality. And particularly vulnerable groups, belonging to the refugee migrant population, such as women, especially pregnant, children, older people, people with disabilities, people with mental illness, people who have problems with addictive behaviour, all these sensitive categories have fully guaranteed and guaranteed care through the public health system. We are now in a phase where the funding of these actions moves from purely European programmes to regular programmes financed by the national ILO. Our goal is until 18 August ending today's programme, the "PHILOS" programme, through CEDEFOP to go to a transition to a better staffed and better organised system, which will also make initial care for new entrants and primary care services and prevention and protection of public health and epidemiological surveillance and early intervention in infections, so as to prevent their spread to the population of refugees, as well as to promote society in general. I think that we really are strengthening the sense of health protection for local societies, for our country's society as a whole, and of course we are protecting a fundamental social asset, such as health for these populations as well. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, I shall conclude. We're in another phase. We've been through the initial period of pressurization and emergency. We are now in a phase that we are trying to deal with, for populations who will live for quite a long time in our country, more specific and more specific needs, such as issues of maternity, mental health issues, the mental vulnerability of these people is too great, issues of care for the elderly, sexual abuse, victims of violence and torture, people with disabilities. These are the new and particular needs that need to be dealt with more effectively. I think that also under the regulations of the bill, Article 12 and Article 17 strengthens this approach, and I really think that holistic care, improving living conditions, individual hygiene, social care for these people is not a matter of idealism.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u80	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u81	It is a matter of respect for human rights, it is a question of solidarity with weak and frustrated, it is a matter of respect for international treaties, it is a matter of defending European values, it is a matter of credibility and dignity of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u82	Mr Christos Katsotis, Member of the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr President. The JRC's rapporteur referred in detail to the draft law. It highlighted the anti-personnelly and anti-immigrant nature of the European Union directives that the Government is coming to incorporate by adapting to Greek legislation the requirements for the reception of applicants for international protection, as well as the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals under intra-corporate transfer, as well as the amendment of asylum procedures. Any positive points - which we shall of course vote on - do not change the overall situation. We referred to the JRC many times in the problems with the operation of the first reception of refugees in the camps. Our rapporteur rightly gave the status of a livestock unit, highlighting the unacceptable, inhumane living conditions. The problems in the asylum service that are increasing with your policy on tyres, the refusal to deal with the great shortage of workers, which seems to be your choice for restricted asylum performance to applicants, by implementing the anti-personnelly, anti-immigration policy as a whole. The Minister described in committee the Geneva Treaty and the New York protocols as a conquest of human civilisation, which highlights the need for universal solidarity towards the victims and convicted of war. He also said that today, as you know, there are no legal routes for refugees and irregular immigrants. It does not work at European Union level a mandatory distribution mechanism for the weight of hospitality. Mr Balafas has reiterated his position today. We are asking, however, who has made the Geneva Treaty an empty letter? Who abolished the rights of refugees? Who has abolished the legal routes, gentlemen of the government? Who is strengthening nationalism, racism and all this attitude towards the conditions and rights of refugees at the level of the European Union by closing the roads, building the walls? The people should know, they are bombing themselves, they make slaves, they drown refugees at sea, they create the unemployed, they reduce pensions and wages, they move drugs, they trade women, they make bombers. And his name is no more capitalism. Gentlemen, you're crying black - we've heard it today - for the thousands of refugees. You call on the solidarity, hospitality and humanity of the islanders and the whole country. You are not talking about the interventions of your allies which are the cause of the problem. The refugees have been expelled from their countries by the USA, the European Union, NATO and other imperialist countries with the imperialist wars in Afghanistan, Iraq, Libya, Syria, Yugoslavia, Ukraine, Sudan, Somalia, Palestine, Yemen. The list goes on and will continue as long as the people do not overthrow this situation. We say imperialism is not invincible. Also, their immigrants were driven away from the great poverty and impoverishment in which foreigners and local capitalists have taken out workers in many countries, such as Bangladesh, Pakistan and other countries. This policy of wars and exploitation supports the European Union, NATO, the US, and other large imperialist countries and forces, such as Russia and China. This policy is supported by the SYRIZA Government, but also by the parties of the New Democracy, the PASOK, the Potami, the Central Association. The same policy is supported by the criminal Nazi organization of the Golden Dawn, sowing its fascist and racist poison with the tolerance of the other parties. The JRC across Greece, along with solidarity, which is an integral part of our action on refugees and immigrants, discusses developments in our region, the provocative aggression of Turkey, the interventions in Syria, the bucket of oppositions and competitions that strengthens and prepares the next generalised race. He talks about developments with the US leaving Iran's nuclear programme, Palestine, which are an escalation of the aggression of the imperialist interventions of the US and other allies, which strengthen the murderous state of Israel in the massacre of the Palestinian people, which is fighting to acquire a state with the capital of East Jerusalem. And the government here in 2015 made the prestige for Palestine, but now keeps the silence of fish. The JRC points out, at the same time, that mass migration and refugee are phenomenal to imperialism and are exacerbated by its aggression, that all Greek governments have a share of responsibility for enlargement and feedback with their active involvement in the policy of imperialism, support for war operations, civil conflicts and conflicts, the exploitation of the peoples of third countries. The Government and the urban parties accept the decisions of the European Union and NATO, they are in line with their wolves alliances and unacceptable decisions and practices. They are, in fact, adopting all the pretexts for the interventions, the management of the refugee flows, their caging on the islands in many parts of our country. The vast majority are double enclaved in the islands and this enclavement is further strengthened by the geographical restriction provided for in Article 7. Based on the responses of refugees themselves and immigrants - and you know them very well - 68% wants to leave for Germany, 31% for other countries of the European Union and only 0.4% wants to stay in Greece. Who prevents this right arising from the Geneva Convention? You cannot invoke solidarity with refugees and at the same time want to implement the decisions of the European Union, NATO, which create an intensity of their repression and conditions of caging. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The JRC has proposed and will insist on the massive decapitation of the islands, to provide travel documents to those who want to go to another Member State - Member of the European Union. And because this is not provided for in the treaties signed by Greece, such as Schengen, Dublin, it must be done with disobedience and an infringement of these decisions. But you don't, because you're disciplined in these decisions. At the same time, we insist that decent, healthy temporary reception and hospitality areas be created, with free feeding, medical care, interpretation, legal aid, with the responsibility of the State, the Ministry of Migration Policy, and not the various NGOs that rip down the area of solidarity with the undoubted. The horrendous conditions, with a squeeze on tents of many refugees, with unacceptable hygiene conditions, without toilets and showers that are sufficient for everyone, with limited privacy, with women and girls at all times at all times at risk of all violence, are the conditions that cause rage, which they insult, while at the same time become "goats" of millions of people who exploit Greek and refugees. Our rapporteur was also mentioned in the unaccompanied, but also in the NGOs. The JRC is struggling solely for the state of health, vaccines of children, education, housing, for all. Immediate steps must be taken to deal with the necessary documents to unite families, unite children with their parents. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the refugee logging agency made an investigation into which refugees answered the question under which conditions they would return to their country. 77.6% replied that it would come back if the war were to stop, 24.8% if the economic conditions change, i.e. if it finds a job and lives for a human, 16.8% if political changes were made, that is, repressive, reactionary regimes, 21.3% if ISIS were to leave, i.e. if fascist, reactionary, imperialist, murderous organisations were to be dismantled. This shows that in order for peoples to live as they deserve in the modern world, which gives great opportunities for comfortable and happy life, they must get rid of the exploitation system, the capitalist system, the power of capitalists, both in our country and throughout the world.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u84	Mr. Katsotis, please close.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u85	I shall conclude, Your Honor. This is the path of social liberation and it is worth every sacrifice to get the broken one of the land. The JRC is calling in conspiracy for this road and gives all their powers. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u86	Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy Mr Nikolaos Dendias has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u87	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not make a detailed reference to the directive and the provisions of the legislation. He did so in committee, but also in the debate here earlier in plenary, with diligence by the rapporteur of the New Democracy. I am also going to agree directly that we are discussing a major issue, Minister, and a pan-European one - not to say global - a challenge. No one here is going to come down the road or say it's easy or simple. But we must be honest and pragmatic first with ourselves and with Greek society. I'm talking about the government first. I heard the Minister of Health. It is not now in the Chamber, so I will try not to go into detail about what he has said. I just want to say that the magnificence of the type 'we saved Europe', etc. They must be devoid of the realities, and indeed by a government official. They cannot just be said to exercise a peculiar psychotherapy of the speaker and the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group. What is the reality in immigration in the country today? What is the reality you inherited, Minister? Because you cannot in the space where you are to be accounted for at a personal level, in addition to your statement that you accept the preceding ones. If I were one of your advisers sitting in the back, I would have suggested that this universal assumption should not be made. In any case, however, you judged it. As far as border guarding is concerned, I do not think there is anyone, even from SYRIZA, who claims to be guarding the borders. You can say things. "We cannot preserve them, we cannot preserve them, it is not lawful to keep them, there is no legal concept of borders." Whatever you want, say. But you are not guarding the borders. Now we're going to the Asylum Service and the Appeals Authority. The Asylum Service was first served by the spokesman, with strong personal intervention - I must say - by Prime Minister Antonis Samaras at the time. He was legislated, but it didn't work. We also made the Asylum Authority and the Appeals Authority, and I have to tell you that we are hurting her. Until then, the Greek Police did the asylum avenues, without having any mechanism, no knowledge and no particular interest in the subject, and the country granted asylum at 0.01% and 0.001%. We have built the best Asylum Service in Europe and the best Appeals Authority in Europe. You didn't strengthen them, you didn't help them. Did you now vote against a series of legislation that was aimed at strengthening them, yes or no? Now we're going to the center issues. The open centres - that is what you chose, your right, we disagreed on why we thought there should be both - as they operate on SYRIZA is a shame. It is a shame for civilized humanity, not just for Greece. Moria's a disgrace. Most centres are embarrassed. They are being violated in the most barbaric way, in the most absolute way, human rights within these centres. You're taking advantage of juveniles. It's a hell of a thing. Is that how Europe's price is saved? Mercy! Let's go, beyond that, to the return mechanism. We had the best return mechanism in Europe. We returned to two years of fifty thousand people. The statistics are at your Ministry, at your disposal. You abandoned him. You have abandoned compulsory refunds, you have abandoned, Mr Minister, - not you personally, I told you before - and noncompulsory refunds. You didn't deal with the subject. If anyone wants to come back, if they don't want to go back and in fact the Ministry as a ministry doesn't deal with the matter. Let's go to the funds. This is a joke. You have not absorbed funds. The funds from the two funds that are now in existence, the Asylum Fund and the Internal Security Fund, have no absorptions greater than 20% and something - the rest of the Greek taxpayer is losing them - when in our day the absorptions were 85%, 87%, 90% more. Ladies and gentlemen, what you do not know is that we had built a special service in 2012 at the Ministry of Civil Protection at the time, because it did not have that specialisation, which has evolved rapidly and extremely well and had funds absorption know-how. When you, colleagues of SYRIZA and ANEL, won this service first, weakened it, then you stopped working, after six months you transferred it to the Ministry of Immigration, and that's where it was another six months left inactive. After six months you took her from the Ministry of Immigration and took her to the Ministry of Development and she's been sitting up until now that we're talking there and about nothing, and the Greek taxpayer is bringing her in from his pocket. You have, of course, a huge love for emergency funds, and you wonder why. Because such love in extraordinary funds and such dismissals in regular aid in Europe, those which of course have a little désavantage - I imagine that partly explains the evil part of this story - that their absorption is not controlled by the way regular funds are controlled, so we can not take them, so that we do not suffer from any control over what we are doing. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you are supposed to be very sensitive to human rights. Tell us what, for unaccompanied people, what have you done exactly? What's the help you've given? Because I heard the Minister for Health earlier here say 'will...'. After three and a half years 'will'? Really? Now let's go see what else you've achieved. Did you or did you not upgrade Turkey? To know, has your policy of non-borders, of open borders upgraded Turkey or not? By the way, because you're telling us that this isn't happening, I'll tell you after the numbers about what happened before. But Turkey receives 6 billion from the European Union and is blackmailing it, it manages both. Erdogan threatens us to open up the cannabis as if it were water and not human souls. When was that for the first time? Did this happen to previous governments? In addition to Turkey, did you manage or not within the framework of the European family to create the unacceptable, I must say, a coalition of the Visegrad countries, which works against Greece's interests and, in my view, against the Charter of Human Rights and the Treaty of the Union? Nowadays this coalition was created, yes or no? Has it done a catastrophic devastation against Greece, yes or no? You prevented him? No, you didn't stop him. It has been said before that you have created the coalition of the countries of the South. Really? When did you create him and who did you create him with? With Mr. Salvini, have you created him? Well, let me know. Here I must say that we had gone with A. Samaras and Malta and Cyprus and Italy and then the coalition was created, which existed and operated. What did you do about it? You didn't even follow the steps of the previous government. Are you saying that you have created a coalition when you are not talking to most of the states with which you are supposed to have common interests? Let's go further, so we can get together. What's your overall plan for immigration? What have you told us we need to do about immigration in the country? Apart from the various - not to characterize them, it does not honor me or anyone - which is'saving', I do not know, and so forth, the country's overall planning to deal with the migration problem. What does he want to absorb, what does he want to incorporate? What does he want to do? How does he want to guard? What does he want to plan? Tell us we know. I am not saying that it is your intention, I dare not even believe it - from the uncertainties of your policy the Golden Dawn and the other fascist organisations, yes or no? Are we in danger again of being invaded, as we had in the past, yes or no? Do you care about the city center, yes or no? How's the center of Athens? Let's go overnight and see what kind of a mess it is? Let's go to Patras one night to see what's created the migration as you handled it? You will tell me: 'But it is your last argument. Well, maybe what you say is true or, anyway, isn't that so, but what else do we do? We couldn't deal with this, it's no other way, we can't guard the borders, we can't, you can't..." Ladies and gentlemen, I shall put it to the Minutes. I'm taking a month. In October 2011, Evros entered the country of nine thousand six hundred twenty-six immigrants illegally, this is a number of illegal immigrants. In October 2013, you know how many people came in? A hundred and thirty-seven went in. In October 2014, you know how many people came in? Sixty-three went in. Tell me, what kind of magic happened? What magic did we do in 2012, in 2013, when you could not do it, but neither could you keep it and copy it? Nothing else needed you to do. Why didn't you follow what was there? Why didn't you use the floats on Evros? Why didn't you use the cameras on Evros? Why didn't you use the business center in Katechaki? Why didn't you do any of this, but did you just say "shoot dogs"? On the islands, really, don't you have the problem? There is or is there no study of the Polytechnic which explains how and where the cameras should be in, what should be done throughout the northern Aegean? Is there or isn't there? Did you use it? Did you do anything about it? Let's know. Besides, to be informed on the matter of refunds, why don't you copy what we did? What keeps you from copying it? We're not asking you to invent anything. We are simply asking you to follow what could be followed seriously. What if we made mistakes? Of course we made mistakes, although I have to tell you that our mistakes cannot be much, because your predecessor, Mr Vitsa, apologized to me. So how many mistakes should I have made? In any case, our government has made mistakes. Improve our mistakes, we're in no objection with you, but do something. Now you're not doing anything. I have to tell you this, without wanting to be deaf: I am going to another subject, not less serious. Mr Balafas said earlier at the hole of his speech, why don't you ask such questions in the House, be careful, 'we're mad?' Mr Balafa, I was looking before I went up to Frankfurter Allgemeine that Mr Chakalotos, the Minister of Finance, said that Greece was not overtaxed. So tell me to your question, based on the Minister's statement, what would be the answer? Are we or aren't we? What do you think? Ladies and gentlemen, I am coming back. Migration is a very serious thing. There is a need for national understanding and a realism is needed. I believe that the government, through its incredible mistakes and the unbelievable damage it has put into the place, is likely to lead to an early stage of realism. The New Democracy is here to stand and help every national effort. But, I say again, every serious national effort, not a repetition of endless ideas that endanger both Greece and Europe and human rights and migrants and Greek citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u88	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after being informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, twenty-seven students and apprentices and three educational attendants from the Kokkini Hani Municipal School in Heraklion. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We are going with three colleagues, Mr. Psychogios, Mr. Vorides, Mr. Athanasios, and Mr. Theocharopoulos, a parliamentary representative of the Democratic Independence, will then be called at Step. Mr. Psychoyte, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. I would just like to make one comment on what the Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy said. Mr Dendia, the Visegrad countries mostly belong to your own political family, not to our own political family, and they are the ones who closed the border. So don't ask for the floor from us. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a bill on reception, hospitality, asylum seekers and refugees, the speeding up of asylum procedures, and provisions on immigration policy in general. Before entering what is provided for in the bill, I think it is appropriate to refer first to the refugee issue in general. We are all well aware of the enormous dimensions that this issue has been having, especially since 2015. In 2015 hundreds of thousands of devastated people passed from Turkey to Greece and there in Europe, which welcomed them. Since then, however, much has changed. Since 2016 we have been talking about a Europe of closed borders, a Europe that does not comply with the relocations and resettlements agreed, a Europe that places restrictions even on the basic right of family reunification of refugees. A Europe working with'safe' countries, such as Libya to curb flows, driving and legitimising slaves, but also envisioning hot spots in third countries, in violation of any concept of international law and its own directives, in order to'store' and 'finish' with this issue, is enough to be away from us. It also closes eyes in front of the real roots of the issue of wars, armed conflicts, enormous social inequality and poverty that throw water on the tip of the extreme right. Not only does it close its eyes, but some states also participate in perpetuating this situation, as happened in Syria. In this difficult political context, therefore, where humanity and solidarity do not prevail, but the concept of legitimacy itself is questioned, Greece comes to respond to the refugee. Although it is certainly not easy for us to respect the unnegotiable rights of all people. It must be consistent with the worthy framework of the Left based on the values of solidarity and equality. Now, on the provisions of the bill. In the first part, the incorporation of the directive on reception and asylum contains a number of guarantees relating to their reception conditions, setting the basic principles for their hospitality and their effective integration into our society. Here it is true that we still have to do a lot of work to ensure these decent living conditions. Many of the directions given by the directive are already in progress or are being implemented by the relevant Ministry and by the relevant ministries. For example, I mention the integrated education programme of refugees from 2016 onwards, which has been extended and recently presented to the Council of Europe, the granting of AMCA for the uninterrupted access of all to medical care, refugees, migrants and children of migrants born in the country and the safeguarding of the right of access to the labour market by Article 71 of Law No.4375/2016, but also by the bachelor of foreign labour without papers and the well-known Article 13 A. In these I add what the Minister of Health has said, the very important work that has been done in the previous period and which must be strengthened and, above all, what he said to pay attention to and specialise in the opinion of torture, because it is important and we need to have opinions on the vulnerability and rights of refugees. Moreover, as regards the detention of asylum seekers, the provision of Article 46 of Law No.4375 remains in force and is very important. By way of exception, for specific reasons listed restrictively, an asylum seeker may be detained only if he is in detention and that detention is for a specific period. Article 10 also improves the existing institutional framework for the detention of minors. This Article further stresses the rule of non-reservation of minors, which can be applied as a last resort and when the other alternative and less restrictive measures have been exhausted. To be clean here, and we support the complete abolition of the administrative detention of minors. In the Council of Europe, we also call it the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and other colleagues here and bodies have said so, and in the next period, Minister, and in accordance with Article 22, which gives the Ministry of Social Solidarity responsibility for the structures, we must implement it. Finally, with regard to the first part, as regards Article 7, which provides for freedom of movement, as well as the restriction on a specific area, which has been a great deal to say in the previous period, namely the decision of the Council of State, I would like to make two points: Firstly, this article, the specific article as it came, is part of the European directive that would be legislated anyway and was the content of the consultation that existed a year and a half ago. So it's inaccurate that it's now ad hoc to regulate this situation. But if we want to speak frankly about the subject of geographical restriction, we must not see the tree, but the forest. The geographical restriction was not imposed on itself, with the will and decision of the Greek Government, but is part of the joint declaration by the European Union - Turkey. So let us look at Europe's overall responsibilities and see, even now, the possibilities we have in this difficult context. We must go to the strategy of decongestion of the islands by vulnerable groups, go to decent living conditions and go to strong pressure in Europe, with alliances, so that this situation can move forward. I'm going back to the bill now. There have been legislative improvements and interventions, which have also been in the original form of the directive, as they were in the consultation, and then they have upgraded and reformed the image of specific provisions. I am referring to the provision on the finality, where the framework applicable to the administrative procedure and the rights which those who have been rejected by the Board of Appeal are now cleared. I am referring to the alternative performance, which will now be done in a way that does not jeopardise the real performance and rights and legal aid of the people who are here and, of course, other moves, which were made mainly in the part of the Immigration Code, where we had the very important provision for the cohabitation agreement, where, as a member of the Greek citizen's family, is now considered as the partner or partner associated with him in a cohabitation agreement. So this provision is now cleared up and has the right to residence permits, as if they were at marriage. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One more minute, Mr President. Also, there is an important initiative by the Ministry for the exceptional reasons, where it will now apply for three years instead of two. The provision has been improved and further improved by the removal of the word 'once', which will no longer restrict the granting of exceptional reasons, and we will not have a reduction of rights for immigrants and, of course, the abolition of retroactiveness for outstanding applications, as requested by the institutions, but we have also stressed in our positions. In conclusion, Mr President, we know very well that this is a bill that comes to give solutions, but it cannot restore all the issues of the refugee. What we need to do is so politically, practically, but also with alliances in the next few years, to organise our services, to address whatever needs are and to shape our policy. For we are in favour of a world that will fit many worlds, far from dissuasive policies, businesses - broom, but also hunting witches that you have served, gentlemen of the previous government, with emphasis on human rights and obligations of migrants and refugees, with integration into the Greek society and with all the framework that has to do with the principles of solidarity and international law. It is a difficult bet, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, but we must earn it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u90	Mr Georgios Arvanitides seeks permission from a short-day absence from 23 May 2018 until 25 May 2018. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u91	The House therefore approved the requested permission. I will give the floor for a minute to Mrs Vaki to read out the resolution, which is three paragraphs. Mrs Vaki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u92	Thank you very much, Mr President. I shall read the resolution of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group. So I read: 'The tragic account from the attack of the Israeli state army against demonstrators in the Gaza Strip includes the loss of tens of human lives, including children, as well as serious injuries of demonstrators. The international community saw with horror and disastrousness yesterday, which has already been written in black color in world history and will exacerbate stability in the region. Of course, initiatives are needed on the part of the UN and the European Union and the prevalence of justice and peace. We support the solution of the Palestinian question and the creation of an independent Palestinian State at the 1967 border, the capital of East Jerusalem, where it will coexist peacefully with the State of Israel." Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u93	We're gonna do a little transfer, because Mr. Voridis, who was here, went out and Mr. Athanasios comes in so we don't waste time. Mr. Athanasios, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, Mr President, I would like to make one point clear in view of the fact that a number of things have been heard. Lesbians and islanders in general are neither racist nor xenophobic. After all, the anti-racist law, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, we voted for it. You didn't vote for him. We need to make it clear, however, that it is the humanitarian issue - both the Lesbians and the other islanders - have been treating these unfortunate people with understanding and compassion - and another issue of the salvation of our islands. In terms of economy, tourism is affected, the financial capacity of the island is reduced, crime has increased and the population is affected. But I don't know if you understand that difference. It is another humanitarian issue in which we islanders have been well treated, and another issue of the protection of the islands against uncontrolled immigration. You must know that today 75% with 77% of those living on the islands that come to the islands from neighbouring Turkey are not refugees. They're immigrants from Africa and from the bottom of Asia.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u95	How do you know?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u96	Mr. Pallie, let go of this now. If you have any other evidence, come and tell them. I didn't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u97	I don't have any evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u98	Let me finish. In any case, we are all interested in saving our islands, if they are affected, at whatever level they are affected. Today in Lesvos, ladies and gentlemen, I must tell you that the possibility of hosting the two large hot spots, namely Kara Tepe and Moria, does not exceed five thousand. Today all Lesvos has nine thousand thirty - three. In Moria - a morning count - there are seven thousand two hundred eighty-five. The possibility of hosting, in human conditions, is three thousand four hundred, nearly three and a half thousand. At PRECH is a hundred thirty-seven, at Kara Tepee there are a thousand hundred forty - three. Only May 1st to May 14th entered a thousand seventy - nine people and no one left. From January 1, to date, five thousand seven hundred sixty - five came. Charters fly off, cruise ships are no longer approaching the island and, unfortunately, the Minister of Tourism said that there is also an increase in tourists. They counted, and listen! - to incoming tourists and those recorded and coming from neighboring Turkey as immigrants. I'm afraid so. All this is due to the...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u99	Not like that, Mr. Athanasios. To God!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u100	Deposit this information for the minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u101	You can see the evidence, Mr. Palley. Just as I say it is. They've been documented...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u102	Calm down, please. Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u103	Mr President, I want time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u104	Give us the evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u105	Calm down, please. It's good to have fights at 4 o'clock this afternoon.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u106	Listen, Mr. Palley. You know very well that in 2010 I, as President of the Union of Judges and Prosecutors, held the big conference there on immigration and human rights. With the forgived priest - Army, we made the first non-governmental organization that later evolved, "AGALIA", to save the world. It is another matter to save our islands. Minister, in Lesvos you said that only three to three thousand people will live in Moria. But you didn't say where the rest of you would go. Are they staying in other structures in Lesvos or going to other places? I would like an answer from you today, because at the moment we were talking - in particular - a number of service actors had visited abandoned camps to see what potential there are. I don't know how much basis this is. I would like your assurance that the goal is to stay only three and a half thousand in Lesvos. And if you did the evacuation to Achaia, and you did it very well, and it doesn't matter where they went...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u107	We've done it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u108	You did very well. It's all right. Why can't it happen in Lesvos? What's the problem? That is why Lesvos and Chios must have suffered this whole situation. We have said many times that if you were to implement the New Democracy National Plan on Migration - from which you have taken many provisions and have them today - it would be better. But you did not, and you keep invoking the statement. I shall also reply to that, of course, because the previous speakers have referred to it as an agreement. Can I tell you something? In this statement we made Turkey an institutional partner and proved to be an unreliable partner. Has he applied Article 3 of the statement, Minister? I also told you in committee that it was to your credit - I am referring to Mr Vitsa - that you said that it had to be implemented and did not apply it. What does Article 3 of the declaration say? He says Turkey is obliged to take all appropriate measures to control traffickers. Did he do it? Oh, no! With regard to Article 14 of Law No.4375, of course, it provides for the transfer of overcrowding to the mainland. Did you do it? Of course not. However, those who have said that if they are in the form of a contract will prevail in domestic law, you are wrong. Because if it is in the form of a contract - let it, and not signed by any institution - it should come to the Greek Parliament and in accordance with Article 28 of the Constitution, which has not been ratified. Now, why is Turkey a trustworthy partner? Since 2013, when the war intensified in Syria, one and a half million refugees entered Turkey. At that time, the ward of the psychological operations of the Turkish Ministry of Foreign Affairs decided that this is an opportunity, first to absorb the money - about $100 billion - of Syrians leaving their country to stay in their country, in Turkey. It is what they then called 'the big wallets'. Secondly, they decided to create a human wall at the Syrian border, trapped in twenty-three hot spots, for which the European Union provided money to be supported, with which they blackmailed the international community and the European Union for economic - and not just financial - benefits. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Thus, since spring 2015, uncontrolled, illegal immigration to our islands – a "weapon of human bombs", as it was called - and Turkey's militia played a suspicious role, for it did not control traffickers at that time. Since 2015, therefore, our islands and Evros have been accepting an orderly violation of all our sovereign rights, ladies and gentlemen, so that our social cohesion is divided. We see residents in Lesvos now turning against immigrants and Lesvos residents against other Lesbos residents, because they have benefits for those who have the micromass there or rent certain rooms. We see that our cultural identity is altered, that tourism is affected and that the economy is threatened by millions of illegal immigrants, as Mr Erdogan is commanding us, and that an uncertain environment is specified for tomorrow in our country. I'm not going to mention the invitations you made to Mr. Feyman and Mr. Schultz, and here's the result. When Mr. Feyman called the countries in Visegrad, he didn't invite Greece. We then defended Greece, not just the government, even though only the government had the benefits. The New Democracy supported this issue. Mr President, because my speaking time is over, I would like to say just two words about the amendment we tabled. Ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled an amendment to the VAT on the islands, whose reduced rates have been abolished. We are not saying that the provision of the law should be abolished, because this cannot be done. We are, however, calling for suspension, which, with the same provisions and considerations, we have done in another amendment. Of course, SYRIZA also tabled an amendment, which says that reduced rates are suspended until 30 June. What is the problem of extending this for a year, in view of the refugee crisis? It's the same reasoning. When the order for suspension was passed by 30 June, it had to apply for another year because of the refugee crisis. Mr Minister, bring in the amendment and let the Members decide.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u109	The Minister will answer. He's asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u110	Minister, everyone has to assume their responsibilities, because it is a minimal offer to the people suffering from the economic crisis in our islands, which is exacerbating as a result of immigration policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u111	Mr Athanasios (COM). — (GR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Athanasios on his excellent report. Minister, you have the floor for five minutes. I think it's enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u112	It's too much. First of all, I would like to say the following to you about restoring the truth. Over the last five days of Lesvos, there have been four hundred thirty-four out of return. So the zero you're saying doesn't apply. At least fix that. At the same time, I would remind you that the positions of unaccompanied minors we received at the beginning of 2015 were three hundred. The positions that exist today are a thousand and eighteen and already AMIF has issued two more thousands of positions. That is the job we do, the funding of two thousand more jobs. Secondly, I think we should talk about similar things. In other words, 100% of regular financing is less than 30% that we currently have with an average European level of 10% in relation to financing and the use of 100% on the side of emergency funding, which is different in this respect. It is a quicker process of control than the Commission. One final, Mr Athanasios: the joint declaration signed by the European Union with Turkey. Greece did not sign it with Turkey. We have no disagreement on that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u113	There's no signature. No institution has signed it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u114	I'm talking about the joint statement...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u115	I gave you the floor to the amendments, Minister. Don't get out of the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u116	If I ask the floor at any time of the procedure, I know you'll give it to me, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u117	Yeah, good. Now let's go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u118	I now come to the amendments. Amendment No 1577, and Amendment No 1579, read by the two Ministers, are accepted. With regard to the amendment tabled by Mr Michalis, I have consulted the Ministry of Education and would like this amendment to be moved, which concerns the absolute examinations of general high school in relation to what is to be done in the next few days. Now, for the two amendments tabled by Mr Carras and three Members of the New Democracy, I would like to say this: as regards the amendment tabled by Mr Carras, it is a way of looking at the entire asylum procedure. In this way, I consider it to be a serious amendment. I simply cannot accept it in the sense that even in the new Republic, as Mr Denkias said, the administrative procedure is done in two. The New Democracy had introduced it first. SYRIZA came in and added the judges to this process. Don't forget.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u119	And the High Commissioner.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u120	Yeah. So I say it's a different process. Right now, I can't accept it. I have to say, however, that I am ready to look at this amendment at another stage. And there's gonna be another phase. There's no matter. After all, separation into administration on the one hand and judicial on the other hand does not restrict. There can be one and the other. It's not illegal, that is. The second point is that there is a procedure, an amendment, which has a financial interest. He can come. And welcome back. There is no such matter. But, in my opinion, what we must not fall into is, on the one hand, to put migration on the one hand as a recital in VAT. I think we can't do this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u121	Mr. Tsipras did it in the previous extension.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u122	I say we can't do it. And because I was in Lesvos on the day you were, Mytilini is the capital of Lesvos, the Lesbians themselves define its name, that's what I'm saying, so I'm saying:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u123	So there's no misunderstandings.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u124	To avoid misinterpretations. So I say: What were they asking for? The institutions themselves, in an absolute way, would say, were separating these two things, precisely because our efforts - and I think it might be a joint effort - are to decompress the islands. So, what are we gonna say? When the islands are decompressed, should VAT be increased? So in that sense, Mr Athanasios and Mr Mitarakis, where you are here, I do not accept this amendment. You can bring her back to another bill, selfless, the Ministry of Finance, and there we can discuss it again.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u125	Can I tell you something? You're making a mistake. Because for the islands and migration, you...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u126	Thirty-two islands...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u127	Have you realised that there are presidencies, ladies and gentlemen? Otherwise, tell me, because I have other things to do. Let me go and leave you alone.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u128	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u129	Not now, Mr. Athanasios. You'll get the floor again later. I understand what you're saying. But let's close now. Mr. Notis Mitarakis has the floor from Chios, who has changed orderlyly in the list of speakers with Mr. Vorides.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Mr. Voridis, for changing the series. Ladies and gentlemen, the first week of May reached the Aegean Islands a thousand and twenty-five immigrants. During the same period in 2017, four hundred fifty-five had arrived. A lot of numbers have been heard. However, it is a pretext - and we experience it on the islands and on Evros - that flows are increasing. The government today seems as unprepared to deal with the phenomenon as it was in 2015 and loads the crisis to the islands. It is unable to manage the flows, the asylum process, the hosting structures. It is impossible to return to Turkey those who are not entitled to international protection. It cannot separate refugees with irregular immigrants. For these reasons, the New Democracy is voting against the bill today. Ladies and gentlemen, in this difficult environment for the islands, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, you, the government majority, are coming to abolish the institution and the island VAT in a month and a half from today and the last islands still in force. That is why we tabled, after a directive by our President, Mr Mitsotakis, an amendment, No 1576/2, the three Members of the New Democracy, Mr Athanasios, Mr Consolas and myself, elected in regions that you have been holding this special regime for a few months. I am sorry to hear Mr Vitsa say quite clearly that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government refuses to extend VAT to islands. I invite you to accept this amendment and to link it directly to other measures to support islands. But I was more impressed by the reasoning given by the Minister, as the majority rapporteur, Mr Pallis, who argued that there is a risk of linking the issue of insular VAT to the refugee issue. However, in its amendment to the Ministerial Decree of 21 December 2017, signed by Mr Tsakalotou and Mrs Papanatsiou, it is stated that the reduced rates for the islands of Lero, Lesvos, Kos, Samos and Chios - we are talking about five islands, Mr Pallis - are still affected by the refugee crisis. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Notis Metrakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Is Mr Chakaloto dangerous, ladies and gentlemen? I would also like to present to you a statement by Prime Minister Tsipras, who told Nisyros "For the islands of the north and east Aegean, we have decided to suspend for as long as the refugee crisis is tempting, the increase in VAT". I make the statement from the Prime Minister on the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Notis Metrakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And you disagree with him, Minister? And with Mr. Tsipras, do you disagree with the Members of the House and do you not vote for the extension of the island VAT to the islands that have proved to be affected? Of course, the bill that comes about for the transport equivalent in any case is not a compensation for the present status of the island VAT, as the relevant Secretary of State for Maritime Affairs, Mr Santorinios, stated in the RES. I'm filing a relevant quote from Chios's newspaper. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Notis Metrakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I'm coming to the bill now. Incorporate a 2013 Asylum Directive after five years. But it's not a honest bill. It has neither decided to resolve the problem with the thousands of accumulated asylum applications nor to dismantle the islands, which is a key demand for local societies. We heard the hearing of the institutions, on the one hand, the agony of people who are incapable of structures, but, at the same time, we heard the agony of local societies, we heard the agony of local government, which was found without tools in the face of a major crisis. In particular, I shall refer to Article 7. It is formulated in such a way that all asylum seekers finally remain locked on our islands for a period of not more than one or two months as the asylum procedure should normally last, so those who are not entitled to asylum would be repatriated to Turkey and those who are entitled to asylum would receive documents, but for one and two years and we do not know how long this asylum procedure will be needed. You only built it to overcome the sniper of the Council of State which decided not to caging the asylum seekers on the islands of the northern Aegean. Mr. Vitsats said the same in his interview. I am presenting a quote from the newspaper 'HIOS CULTURE' in this connection. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Notis Metarakis, presents for the Minutes the above passage, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I submitted to you, Mr Ministers, last week as a reference to the decision of the Chios City Council to lift the travel restriction. Answer, Minister, the agony of the islands when our islands will be dismantled. The resolution of immigration, ladies and gentlemen, goes through the effective preservation of our country's sea and land borders as a basic term of national sovereignty. And Mr Dendias spoke very specifically about what had been done successfully in the past and what can be done today. The asylum procedures need to be substantially accelerated within a two-month period to complete all procedures, so that refugees can be separated from economic irregular immigrants, so that there can be those who are not entitled to international protection to go to closed centres and then relaunched, as a rule has to do. With the proposed bill you essentially continue this suffocation on the islands combined with the increase in flows, which is now proven. And, of course, in the process of resolving the migratory crisis, I will add the need for transparency and efficiency in the management of European and national resources that you fail to absorb and fail to manage with the transparency you impose. We need to register and control NGOs in order to separate those who produce substantial work. We also need to support local government with essential tools and funds to be able to cope with the crisis. And there is certainly a need for a development plan to stimulate economic activity on the islands. The party wings in Mytilini a few days ago did not say anything specific about the islands of the northern Aegean and said absolutely nothing about Chios that is so affected by the crisis. And if we want to see Part III of the bill, that's where the asylum procedure is supposed to be more effective. That's what you claim. However, its provisions do not address either the lack of adequate staffing or the liquidation of thousands of outstanding applications, nor a new mechanism for effective and rapid examination of new applications. Abbreviation of the time limits you enter has no substantial effect. In an administrative system which, in any case, faces structural problems, shortening deadlines is without substance. The system wasn't working and it's going to keep going. Finally, we have Article 36 on the compensation of the inhabitants of Chios and Lesvos of damage caused by the migratory crisis, a provision that comes with two years' delay. In the meantime, there have been new deteriorations and that is why you need to establish a permanent mechanism, a permanent and stable compensation mechanism with stable procedures, which you promised, but you have not done so, and you need to limit the exceptions so that they can really deal with any damages they have been. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, SYRIZA's rapporteur in our committee accused us of not wanting refugee and immigrant in the country. The truth is, we don't want anyone illegally entering this country. We are open to immigration, but with applications, coordinates, as is done throughout Europe, North America and other advanced countries in the world that have a targeted and rules of immigration policy. But you have finally managed to turn some of our most beautiful islands into soul prisons and warehouses and with today's bill, unfortunately, you do not solve any problems for islanders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u131	Parliamentary spokesman for the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr Athanasios Theocharopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u132	Ladies and gentlemen, we are indeed all shocked from yesterday's day in the Gaza Strip, the most murderous in recent years since 2014. Dozens dead, sixty, including young children, thousands injured to date account for the bloody inauguration of the American embassy in Jerusalem. I strongly condemn this attack with real bullets, violence. Because yesterday's attack is an example of the violence and excessive violation of rights. And as the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights stated, 'the right to life must be respected and the responsible must be accountable'. 'The international community' - as he said attributes - must 'guarantee the administration of justice'. The UN had to do the same from the start. Obviously much more is needed than the UN Commission statement on the elimination of discrimination calling on Israel: 'to put an immediate end to disproportionate use of force against demonstrators and to refrain from any action that could cause new victims'. Yesterday's UN independent investigation into the bloody incident got stuck in the United States. However, what it really needs is a credible international community policy for the definitive end of this conflict and the peaceful coexistence of the two states. The Greek Government must also stand by and at least stop bilingualism, because the SYRIZA and its parliamentary group are talking otherwise. I read the statement from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that he doesn't condemn but records the incidents. This verb uses exactly, 'we're recording' and such logic does not fit. SYRIZA has to understand that it's government and not try to be with the policeman and the ranger in this particular case. We have said from the outset that President Trump has a rough logic in foreign policy, an unscrupulous logic which does not really have the sense of responsibility to govern him. It is unacceptable that the action which violates the Security Council resolutions for a two-state solution, the recognition of the capital of Jerusalem and effectively despises world public opinion. Some time ago, Minister, Mr. Tsipras, visited the United States and said that Mr. Trump "what he does for the good". The good finally Mr Trump acted as a detonator on a cargo of explosives with the recognition of Jerusalem as the capital of the Israeli state, despite UN decisions. Our country historically tries to make a decisive contribution to peace in the region, that is what it has to do today. The UN resolutions and decisions on the Palestinian region speak of two states which coexist in peace and reintroduce the borders where they were. That's where we have to stay. And I would expect a stronger attitude of your Government today on this matter. Remember what you were saying and what Mr. Tsipras said in 2014. Today a statement by the Prime Minister is missing, contrary to what he did by 2015. I hope that, even by night, it will be placed in one way or another. And Macron was placed today quite promoted in relation to yesterday's first reaction. And from the European Union we are waiting for a stronger attitude. At least we have a position by the Prime Minister. I think it is an issue on which there must be a clear placement and, of course, not half the point. Ladies and gentlemen, once again - and I am going to the refugee question - we are discussing issues relating to the management of the refugee crisis and the immigration crisis, a crisis that has found the European Union unprepared for the phenomenon of this scale and our country, of course, weakened by the economic crisis, a crisis that, both at European and national level, continues to trigger nationalism, is being exploited by extreme circles. Unfortunately, the situation does not improve internationally either, because the operative cause of this crisis continues not only to exist, but also to be further burdened by tsunami refugees, but also by Europeans, where the structure and cohesion of the European Union continues to be tested. And, today, countries are still firmly resisting the refugee distribution plans, refusing to accept quotas for reception of refugees. I remember when you had put the cubit very high for the relocation, then Mr Tsipras and Mr Yunker - if I am not mistaken - had gone to the airport to make a picture of the first relocation processes in Luxembourg and the Netherlands. And then we said that here you should negotiate and manage the compulsory distribution of refugees, because voluntary distribution is not going to work, and in any case, we said that the communal artifacts should be stopped. Unfortunately, we've been confirmed. At national level for three years the government has been imprisoned to complete administrative procedures, to absorb Community funds. The government's explanations do not necessarily justify the current situation for three years. The Minister, Mr Vitsas, has asked us in the committee with his speech to see the Ministry with the necessary follow-up. Indeed, you are a three-year government in this particular process and you have one follow-up. So we accept your request, and that is why we make some points. You said that the management of the refugee is a dynamic management and depends on the respective flows. Agreed, but what have you done to your Government in the time they were in recession, so that we do not again face the same problems today? You said that the people proved their solidarity and that is why they received favourable comments from abroad. Indeed, only the comments have now ceased to be happy. It is the opposite, since the foreign media do not stop hampering the bad conditions in hot spots, while accumulated fatigue of structures and people leads to situations of further tension and violence. We have no positive comments on hygiene, because I have heard Mr Blonde trying to get through a reality that does not exist. If we don't see the situation, as it is right now, in its reality, how are we going to deal with it? You said that the necessary distribution mechanism for the weight of hospitality is not working at European Union level. Indeed, we are constantly working on this, and I mean the responsibilities of the European Union, solidarity. The question is, as a government, what are you doing to change. We firmly support the need for a common immigration policy and a common asylum policy with a social perspective. You told the relevant committees that we know what to do on the islands. And since you know that, what do you do for three years now? What are you doing in practice? That is the question that Members of Parliament are asking you from all the islands - it is true - from what I hear in their speeches. At the same time, you have said that this is a worrying situation in Evros. Indeed, the figures in April show, as you have presented them, your Ministry, that there we have the outbreak in recent years. But, having experience from the islands, what exactly did you do to prevent it? Or what do you do now to prepare to deal with it? These questions you have to answer today. You insist that the main thing is to reduce the flow. We agree, but given Turkey's unforeseenness, the looseness of the European Union and the questionable effectiveness of the joint declaration by the European Union - Turkey, we must be ready for any possibility. In addition, with the agreement of the European Union with Turkey, we have noted - despite the fact that it is a positive development and we supported it in the first place - that it was on many points and a wishlist with points that are difficult to implement. You also said that you have a plan for increased flows and for a rapid increase in flows and that it is ready for the Ministry to discuss it in its detail with all democratic political forces. Three years when we've been asking you for national understanding on this critical issue, why are you ignoring us? It is not too often that we have tabled specific proposals for crisis management at such meetings. Personally and at meetings with Mr Muzala and Parliament's plenary I insisted on two years ago at the end of 2015 at our first meeting to create a national immigration policy council, which would prepare the best solutions to the problem. He said "yes" publicly Mr. Muzalas after the meeting and then the process of the National Council was stuck in Maximus. And he did admit a year ago that, if he had moved on, some things would have improved. That's not how it works! To date, three years of governance has not gone ahead with a plan to dismantle the country's disproportionately heavy areas. They did not go as the asylum services should. You have confined yourself to clipping actions. How can we forget the unsuccessful experiments on the educational integration of refugees and immigrants? Why even today in your Government - I mean in total, this is a matter of the Ministry of Education - you have not dealt with this crucial issue? Why have you not implemented a coherent operational plan? The State is obliged to facilitate access for all children to inclusive education. And for us, the educational support of immigrant children is vital. He needs special attention. This should be done by teachers without setting up ghetto training areas. And I put a question to your government in 2016. I then received a reply from Mr. Friend and Mr. Muzalas. How many were the kids? They were thirteen thousand children, a thousand five hundred were under five and the rest over five years. Mr. Friend told me he's set up a committee and he's going to study it. It's been two years. And we do not see here a coherent plan. Now, in the short time that I have left with regard to the directives, I want to make a point. These are 2013-2014 instructions that should have been incorporated in 2015. And they come in 2018 so they do not fully respond to today's reality. In addition, Mr Papatheodorou and Mr Danellis from Potami told you. This, of course, does not mean, as the New Democracy says, that it is now too late. It's never too late when it comes to human suffering, about solidarity. Despite the changes introduced to the existing bill, there are some problematic points. We do not perish in sterile criticism. We have a programme opposition, and that has been said to you before by our interlocutors. To highlight a characteristic of the role of the independent authorities and hence the guarantees of independence and impartiality. We told you that the replacement of the assistant to the Citizens' Counselor by the Secretary-General to the selection committee of the Board of Appeal does not find us in agreement. There's a matter for your government with the independent authorities. I have told you many times. It is our duty to strengthen and not undermine the independent authorities. It also contains disputed constitutional provisions such as in the case of a regulatory administrative act limiting free information. In relation to Article 7, I will not say much more about geographical definition. Because it has been extensively analysed by our rapporteur. I do not have to insist on the articles that have been discussed in detail. I shall conclude by saying something about a regulation - we have told you before - which you are voting on to cover expenditure on compensation for the residents of the Municipalities of Chios and Lesvos. Indeed, these costs need to be covered. The point is how. I'm going to make a point here. You do so from the rewarding paradoxes they pay for issuing and renewing their residence permits. This is what we consider to be hypocrisy and greater discrimination. It is hypocrisy because the regulation conceals state responsibility for the lack of basic care for the reception and residence conditions of refugees. It is a strengthening of discrimination, because it targets refugees as a whole as a violation and introduces a reasonable collective responsibility for the legitimate immigrants for the refugee. That's why it's causing a symbolic level. Consider in the next case whether there could be a specific budget line for these issues so that we do not go into such a reasonable way. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the government overrun it, overrun the closed borders, and overrun the unstoppable refugee flows. It's not the only facts that are beyond her. The usual thing for the government is that it runs by suffocating behind the facts, never at the same time. Of course, it is a dream to precede these. If some things go beyond us, however, we also have to overcome them through appropriate political actions and decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and were toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", forty-nine students and students and three teachers from the 2nd Brissia High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Ilias Panagiotaros has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr President. The events of the last few days in Palestine bring us to mind the companions when they went with "Free Gaza", with the scarves and yelling for Palestine. From the "Free Gaza" they ended up in the "Muga for Gaza" and the Israeli embassy for the mass the other day in the events for Israel's seventy years. Another bill of SYRIZA - ANEL which goes ahead on the basis of an organized plan, the nationalist, ideological degradation of Greek society, orthodoxism, the family and the entire Greek nation. A bill on the follow-up of previous anti-national, immoral bills. A bill which, in short, applies its tactics "patients, dogs, algae". According to this bill, to any foreigner around the globe, he comes to mind that he will go from Greece automatically he will also win an asylum. That's what this is about. The procedures are totally humiliated. They are all laughing at the provocativeness of the partners who are trying to promote what the Minister, Mr Pappas, has done, at his postgraduate in Scotland, what various reports by the United Nations say, that there must be an exchange of populations, because the population of Europe is ageing and we want new blood, regardless of whether this new blood has been confused and it is the blood that the Islamics want by cutting off the heads of everyone who is not in agreement with them. There is nothing accidental, because with his degree, Mr Pappas, with the UN reports, all these non-governmental organisations in George Soros, various other non-governmental organisations and the Islamics, as we said, are doing this by playing football with the heads of those who cut them off towards a violent and rapid change in the population in our country. We heard the SYRIZA's rapporteur before. He said a lot of interesting things. Of course, now you must be SYRIZA's rapporteur in this bill and have origin from Lesvos, with everything that happens on the many islands, rather oximos sounds. We have heard that we should respect Geneva's conditions, the various conditions of refugee rights and so on. Big talk! For the Greeks, however, no word or word. Because in this case, and particularly in this party, there is no interest in any Greek citizen. You and your own, gentlemen of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks, have degenerate the concept of refugee - here we see two issues - by changing terminology and baptizing them all refugees or immigrants or older irregular immigrants and financing illegal immigrants and illegal immigrants. With all this, however, you do not change the essence of the matter because it is the essence of the matter alone. Of course, you, in the way you handle all these issues, remind us of the story with the spider that every three and a little shouted "little, wolf" and offended the entire village to help him and every one of them said that it was not all the same. And when the wolf came into his handkerchief and yelled, no one believed him. You referred to the European Union's common immigration policy, gentlemen of SYRIZA. But haven't you ever gotten a bit of that she's dead, that she's never been? That almost half the countries of the European Union spend illegal immigrants? In Hungary, Orban will also make a constitutional change in which refugees are legally prevented from entering Hungary. This is how the major leaders are defending their borders and their homeland, and with them many other countries, such as Poland, Czechoslovakia, Austria, Bulgaria, will gradually get stuck after each other. You guys live with your ideoleptic arrows. I would like to make a comment on what you said about Turkey. Because Turkey is blinking the cliff, should we do her the favor? Oh, no. Apply strict measures so that you can save our country. We must not help, as you said, illegal immigrants to nothing, gentlemen of SYRIZA and of the New Democracy and the other parties that are licking them, because you are afraid not to be described. We heard about temporary immigration. No, no immigration. We have heard things about pensions and other benefits that can be obtained in the future. Nothing at all. No land or water in the invaders of our country. We see what you're doing as a party, what Mrs. Durou does in the region, which constantly gives them money, shares unpopularly, while she has left the Greek citizens of Mandra and elsewhere drowning, burning and suffering anything else. You are disgusting the laws and the Constitution over time with everything you say. The Constitution says otherwise, but for years you, with governmental, ministerial decisions, are being destroyed and with ministerial decision, you have reached these things today's messed up. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, listening to you, we see the deepest hypocrisy in all matters. We are starting with the amendment on VAT, which we have heard from previous Members from islands. But you voted with the second and third memorandum. He wrote it widely - that VAT will be balanced upwards, of course, and on the islands where you are elected. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Let us remember, gentlemen of the New Democracy, who now said a number of things about what Mrs Psarouda - Benaki said in 2005, where she was talking about reducing national sovereignty and even territorialism, the statement by the current President of the Republic, Mr Pavlopoulou, who said in 2007 that she thanks the immigrants as Minister of the Interior, who chose Greece to live their dream and we, all the rest of our nightmare. Remember the Dublin I,II, because we have heard Mr Varvitsiotis, if I am not mistaken, speaking and saying that Greece must be in agreement and comply with the conditions it has signed, conditions which naturally dismantle our country. Now you will start implementing Dublin II and we will get the money and the boats from all over Europe to see what you will have to say. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You are accountable for the closure of the embassy in Syria, where it could do a great deal of work, and then 2012 was Mr Avramopoulos as the Minister of Foreign Affairs - let me, Mr President, give me a little tolerance - he had said of the delegated Assad regime, the only legal one. We have captured all the Islamists and Jihadists, who have leveled everything up. We've heard a lot of things. We have heard that illegal immigrants are not malicious evidence by oral Varvichiotis. And this is where the raisins laugh. We have heard about the transport, which will take place in Patras, or about the decompression of the islands. But at the rate they're coming, the whole country will be compressed. Either way, you do not believe in serious border guarding or any of them. Sounds like a big joke. To conclude, Mr President, it is fast to save our country: sealing borders, guarding, strictening the Schengen Treaty, entering our country only to tourists, businessmen, students and no other legislature. I am tabling the explanatory statement tabled by the Golden Dawn on how illegal immigration should be treated. No legalization or temporary or anything else. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Asylum Service: Control only those who come from countries that have war, Syrians and no one else. What's the Algerians doing? The Afghans and the others who seek? But who are you kidding? Open the embassy in Syria. But in order for all of this and much more to happen, in order to liberate our country, our neighbourhoods, our cities, to fade up the place, to regain our country, Golden Dawn and only Golden Dawn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, Elias Cassidy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u136	At this time, a very well-organised plan is being developed, a zealous replacement plan for Greece's population, a plan that hits Hellenism at two levels. First, through the monument and economic destruction of Greece, it leads Greeks to fleeing abroad, leading to the younger generation of Greeks in foreign states and at the same time brings within our country a flood of illegal immigrants. On the basis of the most official information from the United Nations, in three generations from today, that is, the children of the children of today's Greeks will be the minority within that country. It is incomprehensible that none of our compatriots can understand today what situation our children's children will experience in this country that will no longer be Greece. The situation, fortunately, up to this year, is still reversible. With a change, in other words, in this disastrous policy, which is promoted by the current paradox of the SYRIZA which is no different from the policy implemented by the New Democracy and the PASOK in recent years, with a radical change, with the implementation of the national policy of the Golden Dawn, there is still a possibility for Greece to be rescued. First of all, we must stress that there is no question of refugees at the moment in our country. The absolute majority of those invading are illegal immigrants, which is why the law which is being introduced to the House today is an illegal law, because it gives asylum, not war refugees, but illegal immigrants. It gives asylum to people who do not come from war zones, because Pakistan, India and Bangladesh, Morocco and Algeria are not war zones. These, then, who come to our country from North Africa and who are stab wounded, purseers, are the common criminal law criminals who come and occupy city centers, from the islands in the center of Athens and are engaged in "serious" occupations, such as stealing cars, stabbing civilians, rape, murdering and criminalizing every day, all these are illegal immigrants. This law, which is being introduced today, is illegal because no state - and especially the Greek state, which has legislation, has a constitution - cannot allow illegal immigrants to enter. But they are not just illegal immigrants, they are an army of occupation. This is Turkey's plan. decades ago, Ozal had analysed it, saying we don't have to make war with the Greeks. We'll fill some ships with Islamists, send them to their islands, and so unarmed, quietly, without a single bullet falling, we'll understand Greece. And that's what happens today. The implementation of this policy of Turkey, the high strategy of this Turkey that is currently being implemented not by Ozal, but Erdogan, unfortunately, finds ally the unethical governments of all recent years and we are, of course, experiencing a violent and rapid Islamisation of Greece with hundreds of thousands of fanatical Islamists and jihadists taking over the whole country. Your Prime Minister visited Mytilini a few days ago, escorted by armed police forces. I once listened to an interview with a syria in Papachela that said you would abolish MATs and his master voice said to him - the man of the American Embassy Alexis Papachelas - 'but if there is a gathering of another political force, say Golden Dawn, against you, what are you going to do?' And then, of course, the Syrians said a truth, that all special police forces will not be abolished, and if these special police forces were not the glorious, heroic MATs of SYRIZA - they are no longer "bachons, pigs, murderers" - because they are the glorious MATs that saved Alexis Tsipras from throwing him into the sea. And these citizens who were outraged and indignant were not Golden Dawn voters. In Lesvos, SYRIZA had taken over 35%. They were your voters, who are sure, given that now with this indignation that has been provoked to Greek society, in the next elections will vote on Golden Dawn. There is currently a very violent racism throughout the country, the racism against the Greek who can see it if we go for example to a public hospital at the time of on-call. Not one of your ministers has gone, that's for granted. There, then, we see how the racism of the Greek who sits on the tail behind the nations of all the earth, behind Afghans, Pakistani, Indian illegal immigrants who never paid any taxes. The Greek pensioner, the old man, our father, our relative, the one who paid taxes for a life, who worked for the insurance funds and went to the public hospital, throwing him aside because the foreigner is ahead! All these channels, intertwined, promote illegal immigration. SKAI was a documentary and there I had fun with the amenities, where those who illegally come to Greece and pay their housing for the Greek state. And of course they haven't paid HISBIA. HISBIA pays the Greek citizen who voted SYRIZA not to pay HISBIA and finally the only one who does not pay HISBIA and has housing in Greece is the illegal immigrant. And I remembered - so as not to blame anyone - the images in another documentary on 'ALPHA', where then the Minister was, Dendias, I think, who spoke earlier, who was a hug with two Pakistanis in a house like this and advertised that he has cooling and heating for foreigners. Unfortunately, today few Greek citizens have the ability to live with such comforts, cooling, heating and catering. You give catering to illegal immigrants, at the same time that the state has not taken care of it to feed the Greeks. I remember the rations made by the Golden Dawn and you said 'practical hates'. Because the Golden Dawn acted on solidarity for the Greek citizen! Heavy crime. With knuckles they were hunting down in the center of Athens. Pistols were taken to Patras. An Afghan took a pistol and killed another illegal immigrant. The entire Greek territory is experiencing a nightmare. I will say two names that no one remembers: Thanasis Lazas and Manolis Kantaris. Two Greeks, two children murdered with stab wounds in the back of illegal immigrants. No one tells them, nobody mentions their names today. No justice has been attributed to these crimes and responsibility, all since the beginning of the 1990s with Samaras who opened the gates of the country for Albanians, with Pakis Pavlopoulou in 2007, who thanked all the illegal immigrants who choose Greece - as if Pakis Pavlopoulou is a travel agency for illegal immigrants - with Tasia Christodoulopoulos, who said again five days ago that they are melted. He said, "People have a right to the public space, like all of us." We're experiencing an insanity really. They have, he says, a right to public space. The European Union is defending itself. The example of Victor Orban, a enlightened national leader, has been heard before. Lands, like Skopje, defend themselves. They put special police forces at the border and no one can cross into their own territory. Greece will also defend itself and that is why the People's Association - Golden Dawn guarantees it. Because when we come to things, with two - three simple moves, we will solve the problem of illegal immigration. We will guard the border with the Greek Army with special police forces. There will be no mosquito crossing the border of Greece and for anyone who passes there will be no tolerance. Private offense or illegal entry into the country. Penalties will be carried out in special prisons, where work will be produced in favour of the public and so since the country will be saved from the cancer of illegal immigration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u137	My colleague, Mr Nikolaos Paradiseopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u138	I can concentrate, because my defense too is to be able to avoid listening in some cases and so I am going directly to my own text. I would also like to say a few words about the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group's resolution on the tragic events in the Gaza Strip. It is self-evident that my signature is given in the text. I would like to say that I do not share Mr Theocharopoulos's view of bilingualism in SYRIZA, that is to say, a difference in the government's speech from the parliamentary group. For Mr Theocharopoulos, who is, of course, a noble and careful person, said that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs had a different language and that he writes: "We write the facts." I looked at the text and I see that the text reads: 'We are despising the facts'. Of course, frustration is not only a condemnation, but much more. It also speaks of the Communication from the Ministry of Interior and about disproportionate violence on the part of the State of Israel. I'm going to text. I will not repeat anything that has been said by another speaker. I shall refer to certain regulations, which may not be the most careful, perhaps because they seem to us to be self-evident or somewhat general, such as the provisions on information. However, information, especially as far as refugees are concerned, is indeed a survival support for themselves when they enter a country. And, indeed, information is not only needed themselves, it takes many times too, and the services that they receive, even the police, and therefore the safeguarding and regulation of this information are very important. It is also important that travel documents are issued to refugees who need to travel to other countries because they are there relatives, because their relatives may have a health problem or anything else. It is right to state that if there are no compelling grounds for public security or public order, these documents are provided. Indeed, it is well known that it is often the case that refugees are related to other countries, especially Europeans. I think it is very important, too, to regulate the provision of medical care by the National Health System to asylum seekers. In fact, this provision also extends to the area of psychiatric care, which is very important, because it is indeed the hardship and the uprooting of refugees often leading to the creation of psychological problems, perhaps even pathology, and this psychiatric care is often necessary. I would like to say a few things, too, about the netting of arrangements for unaccompanied minors. I have already heard speakers from the Opposition asking themselves: 'What have you done so long for unaccompanied minors?' Of course, the Minister also answered, reminding how much the positions in structures for unaccompanied minors have been increased. They have more than tripled than they had before. But I want to add something. This government has anticipated the integration into the education of unaccompanied minors. This is a very important arrangement. It is particularly important in the European context too. The inclusion of minors in the special reception and education structures created and continued to open up education in Greek schools was initially foreseen. In very few cases we have seen some social reactions completely isolated. The fact that this scattered education of the unaccompanied was established and accepted by Greek society and Greek culture is a very important step. I think we need to remember the health ministers and the current Secretary-General who have also personally worked in this very important initiative, which I think changes the reception of unaccompanied minors, of course, beyond the others - which I mentioned earlier - and of course also the care they receive. Of course, this bill on a number of issues takes very important and definitive steps. In some other fields it seems to be moving in the right direction, without reaching the end of the route, because the conditions do not always allow it. This last point, which I mention, is also related to the issue of the detention of minors. And criminal legislation, not foreigners or refugees, is now very sceptical about the detention of minors and limits it in very few cases. This must be the direction of both the Greek state and of minor refugees. Some steps are currently being taken in this direction and this is also very important. I would like to say a few words about the geographical restriction which exists today, a very hot issue. There is no doubt that the geographical restriction also has a cost for refugees, who are often in difficult conditions, concentrated in certain areas, but also for the Greek population, because we do not have the equal distribution of refugees' reception. But, in this field too, I think that there is an important shift ahead. There is a gradual change of policy and I believe that to some extent a different situation has begun to take shape, in the absence of politics, in the absence of any policy, to the extent that we have of course also in the inflows from Evros. Therefore, in addition to the islands and other areas they are charged with migratory flows and with the need for a refugee facility. This is even about Thessaloniki. The spaces that have been created there, in Diavata and in Lagadis are known. So the problem is expanding. So I think it is a bill, which makes very important steps, all in the right direction. Some of them are finished and some of them I believe that they will be continued. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, Mr. Mavroudis Voridis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u140	Mr President, what will happen? Three speakers and one parliamentary representative are not speaking?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u141	Three or four speakers have not lost the world!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u142	I've been here since 11:00 and I haven't talked yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u143	I have no problem, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u144	Immediately after that, it's you, Mr. Rabbit. The world is not lost for a colleague. Mr. Voridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating a bill, which the government has also criticised by its parliamentary group. The criticism was that it is supposedly too strict. It establishes a number of procedures for the clearance and processing of asylum applications. He's supposedly puts shorter deadlines, changes his pattern of performance, and all this is supposed to be doing something. I will not just say that it is incomplete. This has been pointed out by many speakers and by our rapporteur. What is the point of making shorter deadlines which, anyway, now that they are longer, are not respected? So when you can't keep the longer deadlines, what happened to coming to legislation and making them shorter? So, what happened? After all, the shortest will probably be destroyed. Or what is the point of these excessive, in a sense, and detailed procedural approaches, where exactly the performance will take place and whether it should be carried out inter alia and under what conditions and all this debate? And it's like forgetting the big picture. What's the big picture? I have heard a lot from the SYRIZA rapporteur for the causes of immigration. Indeed, we can sit down and talk about the causes of immigration and indeed time-consuming and diverse for hours! The question is simple: is this debate resolved by what our country has to deal with today? In other words, let me put it differently: When there is a war somewhere and indeed a refugee flow is created, is it possible for our country to stop the war?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u146	Yeah, but say a point of view. What's your opinion and who's responsible for it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u147	I'll tell you. If you ask me for my opinion on the Syrian war, I will tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u148	Not your general view, but politics! Who's to blame? Who's responsible?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u149	It is a good thing that the allied broad forces have intervened and faced this extreme murder thing, called ISIS and terrorism. That is my view on this matter. But let go of this, because now we are talking about immigration. What we need to discuss here today is the great picture. Are there poorer countries in the world than Greece? A lot of them! So are there always people who want in this sense you call it a better economic future? Obviously! To pursue policies in Europe - I will also say to Greece - that improve the treatment of poverty in these regions? Yes! Until then, what's your position? Is your position that anyone who wants to come here should come? That was the position of the first semester. Have you changed minds since then? I'll say you've supposedly changed minds, but you're actually doing the exact same thing. And I'll explain why. Are refugees entitled to humanitarian protection? Of course! Question: Where do refugees have a legal obligation to seek asylum and provide humanitarian protection for them? Do we ask that question at all? In the state from which they leave and are the immediate adjacent and closest. There is no choice of asylum. One cannot leave Syria and say: "I have a good idea. I want to go to Germany." You can't do that. So that's how it's done? Oh, no. But do we have to grant? Yeah. Economic migrants, illegal immigrants. Question: Do they have human rights? Sure. Do we have to grant humanitarian aid? Yes or no? What do you think? Answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u150	Do they have the right to apply for asylum?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u151	Humanitarian aid, not human rights. Do they have or don't they? So the answer is no. Not because I say it, but because the international texts say it. Is this a distinction to be made? Yes, sir. But come on, where everyone applies for asylum and the rightful and the non-rightful?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u152	Who considers the ‘non-righteous’?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u153	Mr. Comrade, it's a rhetorical question. You don't answer every phrase.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u154	"Who does he judge?" quite rightly. Look how we immediately enter SYRIZA's original spirit. What does SYRIZA actually say today with his rapporteur? That there is not even a body to judge. There is no valid way of judging! So I say that there is an administrative authority that it deems to be. Yes, sir. We donated a translator? Yeah. Is that right? Yeah. Did we also grant a lawyer's right? Yeah. Well, we're doing that, too. Bravo! Question: How many applications are rejected? It's 70%. 70% of applicants for asylum lie to be informed. What do they say? 'I am from Syria and I am entitled to asylum' and it is not from Syria. It's from somewhere else. They're lying! Are these people costing administrative costs? Sure. Are these people costing other kinds of costs, such as retention, maintenance, feed? Yeah. Any responsibility for the lies they're saying or not? Must they have or mustn't they? Because they're lying! So, uh, will someone take a seat on this? Or all we hear here is for their rights? Of course there are their rights. But do they have a duty of truth? I say our criminal law says they have a duty of truth. Shall we go a little further? Do I have some time, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u155	As long as you can shorten up. There's tolerance, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u156	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u157	Mr. Minister says...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u158	Don't start a dialogue with the Minister. You asked for a tolerance. If you have dialogue with the Minister, you have lost tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u159	I've been talking to you for a second. But the Minister says - he is interested - that they have a duty of truth in the trial. Oh, no. Whoever falsely refers to the authorities is punished. You, Minister, the Greek citizen, if you make a false reference to the authorities, will go to court and you will be punished. I ask here: does that only apply to Greek citizens? Doesn't it apply to anyone else? But let's go to the next one. And so it's judged that he's badly here. What are you gonna do with him? I ask you, why are you against closed detention centres? What are you gonna do with him? How will the process of repatriation be done? You're gonna do it? The answer is no, you won't, because you don't want to be somewhere in order to make the process of repatriation. And here's another question. We are talking about detention and the rights of detention. Be careful, because the bans and restrictions imposed by the directive concern asylum, not post-cleaning. After clearance of the request for asylum and rejection, the matter shall end. We know that someone is not legally here and must be repatriated. So I ask: what is your policy on this? But the numbers are talking about your policy. There is virtually no repatriation! Now let's go further. So all this conversation we're having, what practical effect does it have? Is anyone coming back or not? The answer is that few return. So what are you doing? All these are being discussed, the rights, if the conditions are good or bad, the feeder, the translator, the lawyer, the legal aid, whether it will be one of the committees or two, while the result is one: No one goes back.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u160	Mr. Voridis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u161	So, in fact - and let us say it clearly among us - you supposedly changed policy from the fine laissez passer era to all of us because they do not want to stay here, but, in fact, you are still applying the same policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u162	Mr. Voridis, thank you very much. Mr Rabbit, Parliamentary spokesman for the Golden Dawn, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u163	Anna Psarouda - Benaki, President of the Greek Parliament, 12 March 2005, 13 years ago: "The national borders and part of national sovereignty", I read them from within, to hear the very words he had used, "will be restricted for the sake of peace, prosperity and security in enlarged Europe. Human rights and citizens will suffer changes, as they can be protected, but also violated by principles and powers, in addition to those known and established. The education of young people shall require reorientation in education and training.’ If that's not the plan and the announcement of a crime, which comes, tell me what it is. We see that the words of the then president of the Greek Parliament - God will do it "the Greeks" -, when he gave up her office to Charles Papoulias, were not random, but here it seems that a plan has been reached for many decades against the Greek people and that whoever does not want to accept it is at least a liar. That was what we said and we come today and we see that just these things are happening. Greece accepts a violent influx of illegal immigrants, in a vast number of Muslims, and that is no accident at all. We are tired of seeing the Greek Parliament constantly legislating for allegedly minorities, homosexuals, illegal immigrants, anything other than ordinary Greek citizens. A few hours ago the Greek pensioners, those who have worked hard for decades in Greece, were the ones who have rendered what you as a state have been asking them for so many years, what you've taken from them for so long, and now that it's time for these people to take what they deserve - they don't ask you to give them anything to do, but what they deserve - you treat them with MATs, pension cuts and lies. This is the reality, and that proves that right and left are the same store. We read this bill. I want to say it from within - although I don't get used to it - so that it sounds exactly what is said. Listen to what the bill says: "The material reception conditions for illegal immigrants are the reception conditions that include the provision of shelter, food and clothing, as well as a daily expenses aid." If we read this now without knowing who it is directed at, would it not be the definition of racism? Isn't that the definition of racist behaviour against the Greeks? Free food, free accommodation, free accommodation and benefits to illegal immigrants! The Greeks are cutting off pensions and because they owe you money, because you have broken up the economy of Greece and not because they are battered, but because they have been forced, you get the houses and you cut them off the electricity. You are the definition of racism against the Greeks! Specific things, so we don't get fooled. We continue in the bill the destiny, which normally wants to fly and that's what Golden Dawn will do if they want the Greek citizens at the bottom and vote for it and see what other groups do to it and what they do to the Greek people. Let's go down. I am referring to Rule 13. Minor citizens of third countries have access to the public education system under conditions similar to those applicable to Greek citizens. Where and where? From where and until where will someone who is being smuggled, illegally, in my country has the same rights as the children whose parents, grandparents, fathers, have maintained and established the Greek state? The Greek state didn't do it. It has happened on the back of all Greek citizens for years. The Greek state has relied on the homogeneity that existed between the Greeks and the Orthodox religion we have always had. So how does the illegal immigrant, who illegally crosses the border, not asking anyone, enters and accepts all these beneficial provisions in contrast to the Greek? Tell me, you government humanists, only Afghans and Pakistanis, but not the Greeks! Let's go to article 19. In cases where the illegal immigrant gets this material help, but, because he smoked him, one day he gets up and leaves where he is assigned to stay, disappears, does what he wants, and then he comes alone or he gets bored, will pass through a special evaluation team, he says, and they will not cut off the privileges you give him, but you will give them back, the humanists and rights of the Afghans and Pakistanis again. We continue with Article 24, which says that, in the event that this type of application that has come from all corners of the planet is rejected, it has the right to appeal. Look here to see what's going on. For that right of appeal before the court, applicants shall receive free legal assistance. The definition of racism, therefore, at the expense of the Greeks, who still have free health, free care, free education, free of charge. So this is the bill you have brought today, which is not a deafening bill. It is in full match with what you have done for three years and, of course, with the matching and absolute agreement of opinions and the Officerial Opposition. Here I would like to support the fact - because it is really a merciful - that we have seen the rapporteur of the ANELs today, because the ANELs have no other speaker today, who came out and said clearly that he supports this bill and this position of SYRIZA. Do you know who that guy was? He was the one for whom a major issue had been raised a week ago. He was MP Katsikis, who had said about the differential couples and that it is unacceptable for homosexuality and that there had been some SYRIZA MPs up and they have made a recommendation to the President of Parliament to prosecute him, impose penalties and everything else. So he comes today, he enters Siloam's Fountain, calls for "excuse" in essence and does the good boy. Can we say a secret right here? We're neither psychic nor anything. We put the simple logic in. There will be no prosecution and no punishment on Mr. Katsiki. He gave his credentials today. Co-pilots of the ANELs well support your nationalist government. That's the reality. Let's go a little now and see why the New Democracy is in agreement with all this and do not vote today. He knows migratory is money, too much money, which you all take together, you humanists. The only ones we gave food, food, to the Greek citizen were us, the Chrysayites, the Greek nationalists and that you took out illegal and racist you by laws of your own state and so we have no right to do that anymore. We do not of course have the resources, because only from us are the money, which we do not owe a single euro, unlike all of you, which you owe to anyone who speaks Greek, but also Afghan and Pakistani now. You've moved on. So let's go to Chios - because it's not just Lesvos - where there's a big deal. In particular, the Chios City Council has taken many decisions and is in complete contrast with the views of the people, the locals. Indeed, it has been mentioned that there will be the creation of a larger hosting centre in the area of the former HRD, the Pre-Advanced Immigration Center and the doubling of hot spot capacity in "BIAL", so that the number of illegal immigrants is maintained at high levels on the island. Do you know why he should remain at high levels on the island? Because the feeding of illegal immigrants has been carried out by two New Democracy officials. And specifically are the names of Pantelis Kabouris, who is appointed by the Mayor of Chios to a legal person governed by public law, as well as an elected official in NODE, New Democracy. So he's feeding, but he's not alone. There was a controversy. In fact, the companies are called "Pot and Pan Food Service A.E. » one and the other «Salas International Group Events A. E.». This second one, you know whose it is? It is Dimitris Mesologist, another elected regional consultant of the New Democracy. So you see what a nice game you play right and left? In the masses, all of them together. So elected and appointed in Chios have taken over - and the Syrians also know what is happening - this process. And of course it's not the only phenomenon. And that is why Mayor Bornos of Chios looks through all these procedures to keep the number of illegal immigrants at very high levels. Because the payroll is too big! That's the future they're looking after you, Greek people! This is the reality reserved for you by all these so-called democrats, but for their pockets only and not for all Greek carpets. You need the illegal immigrants all, and above all you need the SYRIZA. You need them because you alter Greece's social fabric. You need them because they now receive citizenship and voting rights of at least five hundred and six hundred thousand illegal immigrants until now. And why they will soon become much more. You need them, because this will be your new electorate, since you now have no resonance on Greek society. The only ones who vote for you are the ones you've put in public, because you're constantly recruiting the public. They're the only ones who've gotten some blows from you and your friends will be illegal immigrants. That's what's happening. We will talk to the Greek people to know them, because at least from the next elections, the electorate will have a huge impact on them. Hordes of illegal immigrants, Muslims will vote for Greek government. That's the reality. Some of you know it and you do it consciously and perhaps some don't know it in your sleep and in the love you have for the chair you continue and you support these unethical bills. But everyone will write you history! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall also take my dentistry, Mr President. Tell us, really, what is the cost of all these benefits to the illegal immigrants? Tell us what the cost of all the people you provide with this bill and the next ones? Do you know that? You don't know that. Because within the bill we have read there is no amount, there is something 'approximate', 'we will see' and 'depending on the circumstances'. That's the reality. So this money should be cut off from illegal immigrants and given to those who were just outside, to the Greek pensioners, to the Greek hirer, to the young people who work for 400 and 450 euros a month. You should give this money to them, not to some people from Bangladesh and Pakistan. We're not in favour of the man dying and having a bad time. We are not happy with anyone's suffering, nor do we want people to be troubled. However, it is not possible in a Greece that has been devastated, in a Greece that you have reached this situation for eight years, in a Greece that owes a huge number of money to say that we will also save illegal immigrants, most of which have nothing to do with wars. Greece cannot be blamed for all this. So find the people you are talking about, the Europeans, and make the agreements so that the people who are going to be sent from where they came from, or send them to Germany, Belgium and England. Wherever you want. To go wherever they want. But not here. Greece can't stand it. Golden Dawn had made a law proposal in 2016 and we said it is very easy to solve the problem of illegal immigration. Firstly, those crossing the border of Greece will illegally be arrested and imprisoned for at least two years. This imprisonment will neither be suspensive nor will anyone be able to pay. This sentence will be carried out in detention centres, far from the social fabric that exists from the citizens of Greece, so that there is no charge there. They will also contribute with social work in favour of the Greek public. In those two years they won't be sitting there feeding them. They'll work for the Greek state. And there, when we've closed our borders, see how many illegal immigrants will come back. Also, to any illegal traffickers who are arrested there will be strict penalties that will even reach life imprisonment, see for when everything ends. Finally, I should like to refer to two topical and urgent subjects.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u164	Mr. Rabbit, please complete if possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u165	I shall conclude in two minutes, Mr President. I want to testify some pictures for the Minutes, because yesterday there was a huge insult to the innocent Gazaian citizens in Palestine. There were about sixty dead babies among them, but there was no official condemnation of the essence of the Greek state nor will there be anything from the world community, because we know very well that everything is being 'Jewed'. Why was there really nothing from Greece? Because here is Mr. Tsipras wearing the Jewish hat. So he could never do anything against them. In the second photo you see the previous Prime Minister, Mr. Samaras, with a Jew hat, who goes and testifies his respects to the Jews. In the third photo you see the former Prime Minister of Greece, Mr. Papandreou, who goes and declares his respects to the Jews.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u166	Mr. Comrade, please complete. You'll get the floor again after you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u167	Mr President, don't get too nervous. I'm a parliamentary representative. I've talked two and a half minutes more about my denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u168	I want you to agree, because your colleagues are waiting too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u169	Good. I have my dentistry as a parliamentary representative. I don't think...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u170	The twelve minutes you've done sixteen, it's all right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u171	Secondary. I said it five times.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u172	In dentistry, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u173	The second order by the Bureau is given, Mr Pappas. The Rules of Procedure do not say that they are required to take it into prototype. There's comfort and tolerance, but anyway...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u174	Here there are too many photographs, therefore, of all the prominent right and left ribs, with which they go to the Jews and testify. That is why nobody dares to say anything about the murder that has taken place against the innocent Palestinians. Finally, we will say that there is a Prime Minister here, who says there are no sea borders. That's what he told us a few years ago. There are no sea borders that he was telling us. He was messing with Lesvos and Mytilini. The man was getting confused. On the other hand, there is a Chief of Police Officer, who wants to come to power yesterday and who was arrested at our border with Turkey. They kept him inside the penitentiary and he couldn't get out. They were running him out. So here, we're not talking about Prime Minister and Chief of Staff, we're talking about Bolek and Lolek. So, Greek people, decide what you deserve. If you're all right with them, or if you have anything national and fair to do with them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u175	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-six students and students and four educational attendants from the 3rd Agrinio High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Andreas Michaelides from SYRIZA has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing this evening a bill, which primarily seeks two aims: firstly, to ensure proper and effective, while respecting human rights, reception and residence of asylum seekers in our country, secondly, to amend the asylum procedures, in order to make them more effective and rapid, based on the difficulties identified over the last two or three years, due, in particular, to the rapid increase in asylum applications. I would remind you that with data from EUROSTAT Greece in 2017 it had the fourth highest number of applications in Europe, and has a first position in proportion to its population. With regard to the first part of the bill, I should like to begin by referring to Articles 8 to 10, which refer to the conditions of detention of asylum seekers. These articles are reinforced and surely retain the guarantees currently in force, and the provision of detention as only a last resort for minors is particularly positive. Specific reference should be made to Article 24, by which, among other positive forecasts of increased care, the responsibility for unaccompanied minors is shifted, assigned to social welfare services and, in particular, designated as the competent authority for the protection of minors, the Directorate of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity. A brief report, let me make it on the subject of geographical restriction. Obviously this is a matter that is organically related to the basic forecasts of the European Union-Turkey Joint Declaration and is a key factor in the burden on the islands of the eastern Aegean. I would just like to point out, on the one hand, that the abolition of this unilaterally could be regarded by the parties as against the letter of the declaration and, on the other hand, that we must not forget that geographical restriction is only a temporary means, as a temporary measure, so we must consider - and, as I know, the Ministry has already done so - ways of overcoming it, with a view to reducing the pressure on the islands. I understand those sincere - because there are also pretexts - which have been expressed on the predictions of speeding up procedures for examining asylum. I think, however, that in the end, a balance has been reached between the obligation to protect applicants for asylum and the need for more effective management of the high number of applications on the islands and on the whole in the country. Allow me to make a brief reference to Article 36 of the bill, which concerns compensation for the inhabitants of Chios and Lesvos, who live or have property near the housing structures and have, of course, been damaged. These allowances will soon be paid, according to the Ministry's assurances, on the basis of the municipality's records, and these compensations are exempted from fair and reasonable claims for compensation due to theft or for evasive profits. In addition, in case (a) of this Article, it is specified in its latest wording - after its legislative improvement - that only those cases covered by an insurance contract or which have already been compensated by insurance companies under that contract are excluded. The substance, namely, seeks to avoid double compensation for the same harm. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that refugee is an issue with many variables. And that is why we cannot predict or record easy solutions. Developments, the areas of conflict, the situation in the neighbouring country, the final outcome of the discussions culminating in Europe and the key issue of the reform of the Dublin Treaty are only some of these variables. Greece's policy on this issue is obviously an important factor, but it must be assessed - in my opinion - always on the basis of this more general dynamic framework. This bill comes to regulate a number of issues, with the aim of improving the reception conditions for asylum seekers and simplifying asylum procedures. Obviously, effective achievement of the objectives depends on the conditions for implementing the legislative provisions. It is therefore positive to confirm the Ministry for rapid adoption of the relevant decisions. In conclusion, we should see that the bill actually helps to deal directly with and manage the facets of the refugee. The next step we must start to prepare very carefully and intensively is the implementation of a collective planning for the reception and integration of refugees in a balanced and fair manner, both within Greece and between the Member States of the European Union.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u177	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Dimitris Koutsoubas, President of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u178	Ladies and gentlemen, these hours a really heinous crime is unfolding in front of our eyes. They are mass murders of the Palestinians who protested to have their homeland free, without occupation, against the provocative decision of the Trump Government to inaugurate the new US embassy in Jerusalem, effectively recognising it as the capital of Israel. I will not begin by saying that hypocrisy in the governments of this country is too much. You, gentlemen of SYRIZA, have really broken every record. On the one hand weep for the Palestinian civilians, for refugees, and on the other hand develop relations and cooperation with those who rip them out and murder them. What announcement did the Ministry of Foreign Affairs make yesterday about the attack on Gaza? "We recommend," he says, "suffering and not disproportionate use of force." If this is not the adoption of Israel's pretexts, if it is not out of the question, then what is it? The Prime Minister himself last week assured Mr Netanyahu that he shared his concerns about security in the region. Enhance military cooperation with Israel, refuse to recognise the Palestinian state and implement the relevant decision of the House. All this, of course, for the sake of the so-called 'geostrategic upgrading' objective supported by the New Democracy and other parties. However, the crucial thing for our people is to see the thread that connects the objective of the so-called "gestrategic upgrading", which involves our people in the dangerous plans, the imperialist plans, with the aim of capitalist development, which, despite your fairy tales, requires a people, the Greek people to continue to bleed for the profits of the few. This will continue after the formal end of the programme in August. Besides, they are now admitting it to your government officials who are talking about enhanced supervision after the memorandum, full implementation of pre-legislative measures and, of course, preservation of all the others. Let the government throw the ball at the platform, with the changes in the district of Athens and other such reforms, which are intended to hide and the real problems, aim to beat smaller parties, to facilitate the election of your own ministers and other officials, who see that their election is being thrown into the Great Bear of Athens. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government brings forth a bill incorporating two European Union directives, first and foremost Directive 33/2013, which deals with the so-called'reception' of asylum seekers. Also, the bill amends to the worst unacceptable Law No.4375/2016, a law that you voted for to adapt the legislation to the EU-Turkey Agreement on Refugee - Immigration, which in any case violates the rights of refugees and which we as the Communist Party of Greece had denounced and warned of where this agreement would end. And that's where he ended up. Near the seventeen thousand last week doubled refugees and immigrants arrived in the many Aegean islands, living under literally miserable conditions in reception and identification centres, with more than double, even more than four times the number of people from their capacity and reduced international protection rights. The inhabitants of these islands, which you also increase their VAT, are also suffering from this situation, especially the inhabitants of the villages near the hot spots. Some contract staff of the Asylum Service are fired and others, poorly paid, work at an exile rate and under insecurity as to whether their contracts will be renewed, with reduced working rights and continuous delays in their payment. Fascist and other far-right reactionary elements exploit this situation and launch organised attacks against unfortunate refugees and migrants, as took place a few days ago in Mytilini. And you are now coming to put another European seal into this double caging on our islands, the seal of the so-called 'geographical restriction', which is explicitly provided for in the directive, which is being incorporated today, even though the Council of State has been opposed to geographical restrictions on the islands. Double caging on the islands and the caging of forty-five thousand refugees and migrants on mainland Greece has the stamp of the European Union's immigration policy, which you agree to and increase all parties, except the JRC. We all know that almost any of the uprooted from the various imperialist interventions, from wars, from poverty, does not want to stay in Greece. And as long as the policies of the European Union and the government are entangled here, the more they will resort to desperate action. So they will look for other ways at all costs to reach the countries they want, so will the circuits of the traffickers, both the port of Patras and other ports be turned into ports of desperation, even with the dead, as we saw last week. The JRC has, from the outset, been opposed to double caging in the islands and mainland Greece. Our firm position is that all refugees and immigrants should be transferred immediately to hospitality centres in mainland Greece, where the demand for asylum will also be submitted and the rest, but in the prospect of their immediate decapitation from Greece and their movement safely in the countries of their real destination. Ladies and gentlemen, the most important issue is in which more general conditions this bill is being discussed. It is dangerous to escalate aggression in the Middle East, with the new bombardment of the Americans, Great Britain and France in Syria, with the withdrawal of the United States from the Iran nuclear agreement and the threats to Iran, with Israel's airstrikes against Iranian targets within the territory of Syria, the occupation of Afrín by the Turkish army and the escalation of Turkey's tension with both the European Union and Greece. This escalation, from the Turkish Government's side, always leads to threats that it will withdraw from the agreement with the European Union and flood Greece and the European Union with refugees. In other words, we have all those conditions that work as the best fertilizer for a serious - very serious - increase in refugee arrivals in Greece. Already in the first four months of 2018, the arrivals of refugees and immigrants were over eight thousand. It is almost double last year and with a new feature the great rise of arrivals in Evros, especially in April. Over the two years of the agreement between the European Union and Turkey, some sixty-five thousand refugees and immigrants have come and are caught in their vast majority in Greece. The programmes for the legal relocation of refugees from Greece and the resettlement of refugees from Turkey to countries of the European Union - the well-known relocation and reresetment, as the previous Minister for Migration Policy said - with which the European Union and the Government went to gold out the pill of the European Union's migration policy and the EU-Turkey agreement - were crowned by a catastrophic failure. We repeat that the government is not unresponsible. Greece of governance SYRIZA - ANEL is not an innocent small country found in the eye of the cyclone called "avoidal". With the blessings of the rest of the parties and, above all, with the thirst of domestic high capital for geostrategic upgrading, the government is actively involved in the massacre that is evolving in the wider region and has turned the country into an imperialist bay. It has therefore contributed to the millions of Syrians and other war refugees. With the European Union-Turkey - Greece agreement adopted by the government and striving in every way to implement, with the naval armada it brought to the Aegean, supposedly, in order to deal with immigration, the government has actively contributed so that the refugee is even more and more dangerously linked to the bazaars and the various geopolitical games played in the region. Every new European Union directive on asylum and refugees, every new bill brought to Parliament by the governments, is steps back, which make things worse. Of course, we can exclude certain provisions, particularly those which exist in the directive we are discussing today and which we shall vote on without changing the substance. Because the essence is that they go one or more steps behind the protection provided for by international treaties, especially by the Geneva Convention on Refugees. It would be thought that there could be no worse law than L.4375/2016. And yet, you now brought a more reactionary bill with arrangements that, when SYRIZA was in the opposition, denounced them after abomination. Another barbaric point of the directive and of the bill is that of stopping the so-called'material reception conditions', i.e. the basic housing and feeding provided to asylum seekers, until they complete their request, if they violate the geographical restriction or the slightest misconduct they will do. So you'll literally throw them on the road, you'll obviously make them homeless, penniless. Barbara, too, is the article providing for the imprisonment of asylum seekers, even persons belonging to so-called 'vulnerable groups', i.e. pregnant women, people with disabilities, and even minors. These unacceptable arrangements must be made here and now get them back. And don't act like you don't understand. The third part of the bill, ladies and gentlemen, amends to worsen Law No.4375/2016, a law that, among other things, of course, we have already mentioned, created a fast track process for those who arrived on the islands after the European Union-Turkey agreement, with a view to rejecting Syrians, in particular, refugees and returning to Turkey in a straight way. So for the third part of the bill we have to say: Firstly, instead of increasing the number of workers in the Asylum Service with permanent and trained staff in order to speed up the decisions on asylum applications, you are recommending the so-called working groups, working nights, at an exile rate for workers and having a negative impact on ensuring the rights of asylum seekers. You also give even more rights to the European Asylum Service, so that it finally replaces the role of a public service, such as the Asylum Service, with the logic: "The Greek border is European". Anyone who says this expression, now anger or ironic comments, even when it is spoken out of official lips, when the Greek people see and knows where all this has led us. Secondly, you are reducing to a degree unacceptable and unrealistic the deadlines already short, whether they relate to the adoption of a decision, the so-called 'excessive', i.e. a fast track procedure, or an appeal to the Secondary Board of Appeal, while recourse to the administrative courts will not protect the asylum seeker from expulsion, as has been done so far. They are asylum procedures, to unleash and reject asylum claims and deport refugees and need so-called 'international protection'. Despite all the changes that you have brought, the general direction does not change, apart from the fact that you are used to bringing into time later and unrelated, in particular, bills, as many regulations as you consider to be of no benefit to you or cannot be passed in the first phase. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the fourth part of the bill, namely the one concerning economic migrants, in addition to the adaptation of immigration legislation to the arrangements of the cohabitation agreement, there are rules on residence permits. And here we see the tactics of at least the last decade to continue, that is to say, legalize it through temporary and so-called "exquisite" procedures, a small number of immigrants every time, although people who have lived for too many years in our country who have acquired bio-engineering ties here in our country, rather than adopting a simple, unreasonable process that will cover the whole world with long-term residence permits and will not hold it in constant hostage. We note that the changes you make may favour some immigrants. However, some others will deprive them of the right to obtain a legitimate residence permit, which they had in the previous arrangement. Why are you doing this? These risks have been identified by you, and they have been identified mainly by a number of mass organisations and bodies dealing with these issues. Also, as a Communist Party of Greece we insist on the need for direct, brave staffing with staff, with modern services infrastructure of decentralised administration, in general all services involved in handling residence permits or the acquisition of citizenship by immigrants. Finally, it is challenging what you have brought in an amendment and which you are baptizing as a'reduction of offenders' for a series of residence permits. Because on the one hand you are reducing the paradoxes of certain permits and on the other, you are taking them back, either through increasing the unacceptable fines imposed on immigrants, in case someone is late to renew his licence or does not declare, for example, the change in his residence, etc., or through the introduction of new offenders for certain residence permits or applications. This is a common practice, we would say, of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. A few days ago, the letter sent to us by an economic migrant from Albania, who has lived for many years in Greece, has a residence permit, has an AMCA, has a tax registration number. He also sent to the relevant ministries, from what he told us, and to the SYRIZA party the same letter. It also writes this letter in itself. This immigrant records a number of discrimination against economic migrants, their families, legal and legal persons, even though they are normally taxed, even though they also pay for their insurance funds. Why do you not abolish these discriminations? Why do you perpetuate the regime of injustice against them? Finally, I am going to talk about Article 36 on compensation for the inhabitants of Lesbos and Chios who have suffered damage. Because of your own policy, geographical limitations, as I said before, that is, double caging, these exist. However, our Members also said during the debate in the committee responsible that we would vote in favour of it. However, this Special Compensation Fund needs to be set up immediately, covering in due course and fully those who prove to be damaged. The most important thing, however, is to stop this drama of double caging in the islands. You are asked by all the inhabitants of the islands, by the labour, by the people of the mass movement. You are asked by all the mayors of the islands. You are asked to do so by a number of refugees' organizations. The whole society is asking you to. Finally, do it and leave the big words and the unadulterated general promises with no reflection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Christos Kelles has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, immigration is an extremely crucial issue for our country. The draft law of the Ministry of Migration Policy introduces to the vote arrangements concerning the adaptation of national legislation to Directives 2013/33 and 2014/66 of the European Union, as well as other provisions on organisational and detailed issues of the First Reception and Identification Services and the Asylum Service. However, the Government has not added anything essential once again, insisting on its ideas. Our country has a long tradition of humanism and the protection of human life and dignity and has an obligation to incorporate Union law into national legal order. Furthermore, it is our duty to focus on specific dimensions of the migration issue where the government displays monolithicity and shortcomings. I shall begin with the fact of arbitrary identity and reducing migration flows to refugees. The phenomenon that the Greek state has to manage is not as a whole a refugee, as the minister responsible has argued, but a migration. According to official data from the Asylum Service, over the last five years, a hundred and fifty-five thousand people have entered our country, some 45% of whom have come from war zones. However, the war in Iraq has ended for a long time and only Syria's front remains open. The Syrians account for 34% of the applicants, while the remaining applications concern people from other countries. The rate of recognition of refugees as a whole - I am referring to asylum and subsidiary protection - is 40% of the applicants. Asylum is a sanctuary and should be granted to those who are really at risk in order to take proper care and protection of the Greek state. However, those who are not refugees and are illegal immigrants should return to their countries. Today everyone who enters the Greek territory is allowed to apply for international protection. This phenomenon has increased over recent years, because the government has put out the wrong signal, so that a asylum industry has been set up and tens of thousands of people are accumulated in reception centres on our islands. This policy must be changed, starting from first-hand and identification procedures and decisions on whether or not to examine applications. Recognition of vulnerability has taken on an elastic character and so most applicants gain a primary guarantee for their stay in our country. However, we must not forget that Turkey is the third safe country, in accordance with international law and the Council of State, and there is agreement on this subject with the European Union. You have not taken concrete initiatives to improve the effectiveness of asylum procedures. Since the asylum structures have been abolished by the Ministry of Public Order and Citizen Protection, we have seen the spectacular increase in flows and case operators are called upon to do their work under extremely difficult conditions. The country's borders must be adequately protected and at the same time our government and our European partners must assume their responsibilities regarding what we want. Do we want an immigration policy 'kateboard' or do we want an integrated asylum policy? Are there any possibilities in Greece and Europe for hosting and hosting migrants in addition to proven refugees? Obviously, we do not have that possibility as a country. Budget resources are not sufficient and we need the help of the UN High Commissioner and resources from the European Union to manage all these flows. At the same time, we see that other states of the European Union, such as Hungary and Austria, have closed their borders, so that these people are trapped in Greece and cannot look for a better future. Therefore, we need a national strategy, which should meet the country's capabilities, sending the right message in all directions and leaving the unwise policy of open borders. Our party has tabled concrete proposals. First of all, speeding up asylum procedures, through coherent administrative actions and segregation between refugees and migrants, tackling illegal immigration through more effective protection of maritime and land borders and combating traffickers, short-lived and dignified hospitality for applicants in reception centres, while protecting and caring for children and families, taking steps to manage the issue with the other European governments and taking proportionate responsibility for the management of national and European resources, rigorously demarcating the role of NGOs and self-declared solidarity, thorough and continuous control of legal documents throughout the territory. Finally, the return of refugees to their country, when the conditions under which they were granted the status were no longer met. If you really want to give a solution to the issue and deal adequately with the migratory crisis, you should take our proposals seriously and take initiatives to draw up a national strategy in the long term. Organizing hot spots to take pictures of afflicted people, selling progression and neutrality, this is not humanism, but it is a disgrace to the real problems and indifference to the country's security and hostility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u181	Thank you. Mr Theodore Dritsas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u182	Thank you, Mr President. The fact that our country, with its previous governments and the current government, has launched a process of strengthening cooperation relations with the State of Israel, does not mean at all that our country, the Greek people, the government, the Greek Parliament, all of us, can remain - and we are not - indifferent to acts of violence so cruel, so generalised, so unacceptable, so criminal. It is the right of the Palestinian people to fight for its national restoration, for its organization in its own state, such as the international community, the United Nations, has designated and decided to establish the Palestinian state at the limits of 1967 and with East Jerusalem capital. That is why it is very important that both George Pallis and Anneta Kavvadia and Fotini Vakis and many other Members and all of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group - on the initiative presented by our Parliamentary representative, Mr Fotini Vakis - table the resolution to be adopted by this House today, with regard to these tragic events. One thing is certain: the Palestinian people expect no support from the anti-Semitism nazis who unfortunately still have voices in the Greek Parliament. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is indeed attempting to resolve issues in contradictory situations, equilibriuming each time between degraded factors not created by the Greek Government, but created by the international environment and international relations. That cannot be ignored and questioned. We do not, however, talk about any real possibility, so that both the islands can be dismantled by refugees and immigrants in our country, the way that, with respect for their dignity, they can benefit from the defence and implementation of all those rights that arise not only from humanism, but from the laws of the Greek state and from the international treaties. That's what I want to say: Myths, myths, myths. Mr. Varvitsiotis, don't you know that the refugee flows started running at a glossy speed from May 2014? You don't know that? Was Tasia Christodoulopoulos when she invited them? You don't know that? Did SYRIZA have to come when in fact for the millions of refugees who were in camps in Turkey, Lebanon and elsewhere, waiting for their return, the events of war in Syria just in the middle of 2014 made it clear that the expectation of return is a very distant dream? That was where the trend of the refugee current towards Europe was born, precisely because all the chances of returning to Syria and the other countries from which they come were now closed. Of course, at that juncture it was that Chancellor of Germany, Angela Merkel, made the open, public invitation. SYRIZA's government didn't do it. There, therefore, our country, with a government of SYRIZA - and it is precisely in honor of the Greek history and the Greek people and the Greek state - applied the law of the Greek state and the international treaties. Safe way out! These stories about the 'open borders' and 'incomplete border control' are just to scare the world. There was not a single refugee or immigrant who passed - and hundreds of thousands in 2015, proven - and not to be controlled, which was not recorded in the rough procedures, but also in the upgraded technological process, with appropriate machinery, and that proved to be as many times as the Port Corps and the Greek Police had needed to provide information to Interpol, other police throughout Europe, on a number of occasions. They never found us a single case that wasn't all recorded and checked out. Is that an open border? Is that a'stuff vine'? Is that "sucking dogs"? It is legal and humanism and patriotism. With what is happening in the Mediterranean with Libya, with thousands of drowned people every day, if it happened in the Aegean, our country would not have a face anywhere. Beyond the reproach for the Greek people and the Greek state and the Greek Government but also in terms of our country's position in the international environment, we could not stand as a state one day if we had all these dead. To tell me what'safe passage' can mean for refugees and immigrants - at that time at sea you are not separating - except for push back. What else could it be not to secure the safe passage? I have a lot to say, Mr President, but I will respect time and stop here. The decongestion of the islands must be done. However, modern Greek history has written experiences not only to the inhabitants of the islands, but also to the representatives of the Port House, who not one, not two, not five, not ten, almost all, told me on several occasions when I was Minister: "Minister, I am twenty years, I am thirty years in this House, I am 15 years in this House. This is the first time that I have been proud of myself, the first time I've been going home and looking into my children's eyes and I'm not ashamed of it." This is Greece! This is home! And in this country no nazis, no conservative, no fearful, no voter can use it and slander it! That is why Dimitris Vitsas, Giannis Balafas and the government will take care of the decongestion of the islands in an environment that is definite and not defined by themselves. But to God what our country has conquered as an eye daughter, all Greek people must defend them to the end!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Antonis Gregos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, Mr President. What a vote SYRIZA should also vote, then, really in a day of shame for the Greek Parliament! We are used to such days of shame. Such were the days when you passed the anti-racist law, the law on citizenship, the law on homosexual couples, but there are many other days like this. A bill on illegal immigration, then. No chance of choosing the rapporteurs of the rest of the parties in today's bill: Pallis, Varvitsiotis, Dannelis. You know what I mean. And it is no accident who has managed the so-called illegal immigration problem so far in key areas: Mussolas, Xanthos, Toskas and others. One more black day, then, in the operation of the Greek Parliament. Another day when another bill comes to be added and voted in direct contrast to the will of the Greek people, such as these bills I said before, the anti-racist - racist bill - we repeat once again that the anti-racist law only applied to Greeks - the law on citizenship, benefits, benefits and many other bills. Where to start and where to end! First of all, let us say that the anti-Greek and racist government of SYRIZA - ANEL is moving forward - until it collapses - in a series of legislation that has many dirty objectives. The first objective: the transfer of hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants by the end of the year to the sensitive region of Thrace, in order to direct the settlement of these areas by Islamic people. Of course, there's no control at the border at Evros. As we know, the border in Evros is open and logically crossed from jihadists to Turkish agents, but also all sorts of criminals. All the above, of course, are known and made by specific orders. Objective 2: The massive and organized change of Greek populations in Thrace and islands and mainly in Lesvos and Chios. The third government's objective is to ensure the security and training of terrorists in various parts of the country, particularly in urban centres and in specific areas. Let us say here that never before, but no one has ever been arrested in Greece on the relevant charge, as is the case in other countries, which often prevent some terrorist strikes. Objective 4: Dismantling of the health system, since poachers are entitled to everything by priority and, of course, at no cost. In addition, among other things, the unnecessary use of EMCDDA ambulances has become a scourge and, of course, at the expense of patients in real need. We have also tabled relevant questions to the False Democrat Ministers and of course we are not getting an answer, not to say about thefts in every public hospital, which of course do not have the necessary security. The fifth objective, which is clearly seen in the bill, is the degradation of education with the requirement of integration at all levels of education. In the next bill, illegal immigrants may be introduced into EIO without examination. They'll also get a degree in their choice without there being a need to study. They already exist in the institutions as 'warrants' of traffickers and narcotics, as trumpets along with their left-wing companions and as experienced instructors in the use of weapons and explosives, because there is the most famous asylum of criminals of all kinds. Objective 6: Disbursement of dirty money through NGOs and famous solidaritys. Everyone knows what is going on, except for the competent authorities. Objective 7b: The complete dismantling of the insurance funds and the increase in unemployment. We recall that there are money, jobs exist, homes exist, benefits exist quickly and easily for every illegal immigrant. Complaints from officials to various departments about the instructions given by the government for all kinds of service are thousands. The other day, an employee at a JEP told me that an illegal immigrant was asking for paperwork to buy a car, apparently to carry some of his compatriots. The eighth objective of the government and the rest of the so-called constitutional arch is the dismantling of Greek commercial enterprises, particularly in the large urban centres. The "slash" sell everywhere and freely, the warehouses that collect illegal species are known, the way the sludges are delivered is also known, but of course the authorities see nothing. Of course, there is also a huge health risk here. Another goal of the government is to accept tourism key blows, especially in places where there are hospitality centres and in towns where gangs rob tourists on the streets, buses, on the metro. Of course, who's going to come back to a country where they took his money and travel documents? Speaking of buses, this is a traumatic experience. Measures, benefits, facilities, all about the hordes of illegal immigrants and on the basis of their supposed incorporation that have never been incorporated anywhere and have reincorporated and reinstated all of this by bombs, bullets and stabbing in the name of their God. We often hear the word 'leaves' and the word 'host'. There are no arrivals, but there is no reception. Nobody wants them here. He's an illegal entry, and first of all that's a violation of the constitution. They can and must take immediate measures. The situation will be slightly irreversible if it is not already and this is the country's biggest problem. We have mentioned many measures to save the country from this huge risk. I refer again to some of them: Closure of land borders with high and safe fences, as well as passages to Evros and to any area. Reinforcement of inland patrols on the islands, particularly those close to Turkey. Let us say here that in some cases we see boats deporting illegal immigrants and returning back with two people and at a very high speed. This could interfere with the port, even sinking these ships, because of course those who drive them are slaves. Reconstituting and manning with all the media of the Illegal Immigrant Service. Acceleration of mass deportation procedures. Of course, whoever deports doesn't come back. Take measures in order not to be viewed as asylum of all kinds as a criminal and to cut benefits which are not entitled and which are not given anywhere in the world. Daily operations - brooming, where necessary, in Athens, Thessaloniki, Patras and elsewhere. Control and penalties at last for the NGOs and the famous solidarityrs for their dirty role. Rehabilitation of damage to the affected areas by the hordes of illegal immigrants and, of course, serious punishment for those who commit crimes. The crime is, of course, the illegal entry into the country, as I said before. Our homeland is in danger immediately. Those who enter are people dangerous, as are the people who rule this country. The Greek people are suffering, but they will react. The peoples of the whole of Europe have already reacted. It's time for Greece as well. The Golden Dawn with a people's mandate to take every election campaign will be in front of and next to the Greek people. The carcinoma of multiculturalism will be ripped out, its followers will be isolated. Finally, we will once again condemn Israel's new racist crime along with the Greek people together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos, Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, to put a few things in place, I would like to remind you that the Ministry of Migration Policy is what I call it the Ministry of Culture. Who was in the position of Yannis Muzala and today, Mr. Vitsa? It'll do well first to see what exactly this ministry does. It is no secret that more than five times Erdogan himself has threatened and said "do not get too excited about me, because if I leave not all of three and a half million, but some of you, I'm done with it". Whether we want it or not, that's a reality and we should have another look at a real problem. Is it - or is it not? - the European Union is in solidarity in the two countries, particularly Italy and we, in recent years, have seen this wave of immigrants? After what happened in "Arab Spring", Italy has an explosive problem and after what happened in Syria, the second country - because the geographical position you know is not selected, we have it and it is over - it is Greece. There is a matter now with economic migrants. In many of these countries there are great dictatorships, where a person established by some powerful oil tankers, guns and others in a very cheap way takes raw materials, literally throwing these peoples away in misery and “land fire”, the life-saving self is saved. Because I hear differences sometimes: they have war - indeed in Syria they have war - other countries have no war. These people don't have rights? My opinion is that in a baby child who is in a boat drowning in the Aegean Sea there is no sense that he is a child of a man who has war in Syria, a man who is economically destroyed and is looking for the land of the promise. That's my opinion. Some people don't share it. Their right. That's why I'm saying he's a ministry. Yannis Muzalas had very often been attacked very unfairly. I have the feeling and opinion that many years ago - I have said it and I will say it again - a man, an Austrian Nobel Prize, Conrad Lawrence, wrote "The eight deadly sins of the planet" and had predicted almost precisely the incredible flows of migrants that the land of the promise will accept, Europe. He said it sixty years ago in this book. No one was listening. And father Galbraith then recommended that President Kennedy give the debts to both the southern countries and the African countries and think him crazy. The flows from these countries were targeted and targeted, because some have taken care to take the raw materials, "Let us have a good time and all others die." Some may disturb this analysis. If there is no balanced economic development in all the countries of the world, the planet is destroying itself. The streams are one of his pieces. I would like here to say, with dry realism, that it is not just the austerity that has shredded the extreme right movements on the planet and on Europe. It's the streams. Indiscreetly, some people have shoved all the extreme right-wing movements in Europe, and we hear countries such as the countries of the former Eastern Europe, who have actually suffered at that time, today being fanatical fans to close the border, not accept one, to be guarded. We all want to have a good time, really. But they have the privileges of the European Union's funds. I have a complaint from the European Union here. We agree that Hungary does not want to take neither an economic migrant nor a refugee. But he paid. It is important to rethink whether we want this Europe united, or whether it is a mortal form that goes away. Immigration rings the bell. Greece stood up, they all say. The word 'democracy' was content with this problem because some people were saying to drown them, throw them away. At least what I heard today isn't so wild. I used to hear worse. And we cleaned up in two days. No, it's not like that. I believed and really believe that Greece should also participate in this correction. It's a mistake that can't go on. I was pleased to read an article by Ignasio Ramone, an old director of the 'MONDE DIPLOMATIQUE', who sees - I think it is a very experienced writer - that the reconstruction of Syria may be a new beginning and predicts that these flows can be stopped, that some may be repatriated and stop our own drama. Because being out of the dance and criticizing from morning to night "what we did, what we made, etc." when babies are drowned daily and we see them backwards on the beaches, they are against developed countries. Man's mind doesn't fit. We were all standing up when we saw that this little girl killed her baby and we were fine. Do you know how many babies like dogs and kittens drowned in these streams? And? Here comes this bill, and I think he's doing the self-evident thing, he's taking care of it. It's adapted to a directive. But there is hypocrisy because Europe itself gives the directive and we adapt it. It does not do what it should be for us, for the Italians and for two - three other countries. I will welcome this initiative. I would like to say that I want to believe that there will be consensus in this Chamber at least on the proposed draft, and I consider it to be unsuitable for a micro-party policy. It's a bill I think it's not without. I, too, agree that the great burden has been accepted by these islands. I would say that they are heroes of their inhabitants and Members of all the parties in this Chamber, whether they are Lesvos, Samos or Chios. All these islands really need to have the support of all the other Greeks and we need to find ways to actually dismantle them. In no case should these people "pay the bride" that the whole country pays in general. "The good captain," he says, "seems in the fortune." The country has an open wound called "immigrant". Anyone who thinks he can solve it with two or three extremes, in my opinion, solutions, should come and see it. It can't be. It wants sensible, ethos and above all solidarity from all the countries of Europe. I want to believe that sooner or later we'll see. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u187	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The President of the People's League Parliamentary Group - Golden Dawn, Mr Nikolaos Michalios, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u188	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I really do wonder about today's sitting with this draft law, which, as has been said from the outset, is followed by a Community directive. I deplore this famous European solidarity, which has condemned Greece to be the 'eldorado', the country of residence of hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants and refugees. And finally this yellow star flag, the blue, the Golden Dawn is struggling to leave this Chamber. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] Why? Because we see Europeans and on this issue, so crucial, having left our country. It was said that this bill, which is based on a 2013 Community Directive, would not drown children at sea. Who said drowning children at sea? We want them to go home. We don't want them drowned at sea. And finally, is SYRIZA so strongly anti-racist government, along with government attendants, the Independent Greeks, the three years that govern them, drowned them without this bill? The situation is unacceptable. And this unacceptable situation in the Aegean Sea has been denounced by the Regional Governor of the North Aegean, who is certainly not a golden man. Features stated: “They have come from 1 April to today on the islands of the northern Aegean, two thousand five hundred thirty-six immigrants and refugees, when the corresponding number of 2017 was only six hundred ten immigrants. Lesvos currently has eight thousand eight hundred ninety - five immigrants. The equivalent last year was three thousand fifty immigrants. All of the northern Aegean has a total of six thousand immigrants, and this year we have thirteen thousand five hundred immigrants. Your work is, gentlemen of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, the doubling of refugees and illegal immigrants in the Aegean islands, which are actually suffering. The feelings of the people vis-à-vis your policy have recently been seen with the visit of your Prime Minister, who went to the island with dozens of MAT platoons, which made a cord to speak to an audience of chosen. However, the famous European Union that loves us, which protects us, which wants us to solve the problem of immigrants and refugees, has made a special agreement with Turkey on the relaunch of refugees in Turkey, but in which it has only spoken about the Aegean islands and not about Evros. For Evros the mayor of Orestiada, who is neither far-right nor goldenygite, stated days ago: "Let me humbly testify that they are much more. Because I and my partners also happen to go back to the streets and make informal counting, there were several more people, because if they knew the procedures, they would like to be recorded. It may simply not be within those who address the circuits, because we must say truths." The position of the Golden Dawn, as set out at the first moment in committee, is against this draft law. Clearly we propose immediate expulsion of all illegal immigrants through transnational agreements, we do not say to drown them, particularly those entering Turkey, who cannot be refugees because they do not come from the field of war. Refugees are when they go to Turkey. From Turkey and beyond, they are not refugees, they are immigrants, who are illegally entering our country. Recently, just last week, there was a trial in Mytilini, in which we saw a lot. We have also seen the affection of the European Union. In January 2016 five members of a non-governmental organisation, three Spanish and two Muslims with Danish passports, towed a boat with illegal immigrants and took it to the port of Mytilini, when the port, with the testimony of the port officers, said their ship was not in danger. For this reason, a case-file has been formed against the migrants. The result? At the pressure of non-governmental organisations, Amnesty International, but also of the Commission and Commissioner for Migration, namely the Avramopoulos of New Democracy, the traffickers were acquitted. The bill: In Article 7 you speak of free residence and freedom of movement, free child training and the right to access work. This at least takes a lot of nerve to report. When two million Greeks no longer have access to work, you want to give access to work to those who illegally enter our homeland. Golden Dawn cannot accept such a piece of legislation, which is a racism against the Greeks. And with regard to Articles 13 and 16, which refer to the education and professional rehabilitation of illegal immigrants, you have all settled it with the locals, with the natives of this country, and they offer you opportunities to integrate all of them. Article 18 shall also stipulate that the host competent authority must provide accommodation, food and medical care to applicants. Indeed, that is the right thing to do and the humanitarian thing. But what do you do for the Greeks? Have you gone a day on a public hospital where there are no gauzes or alcohol or iodine? The air's words are what you say and you can't offer. Article 31 allows the coordinator of the decentralised administration to grant a three-year residence permit only for third-country nationals and for humanitarian and exceptional reasons, which you do not specify, seven years' residence permit. Not too little or too much you are preparing them for citizens of the country. And I come to Article 36, in which you speak of compensation for natural and legal persons. There is the outrageous fact that you are exempted from compensation for those who have suffered theft in houses and business spaces. All the Greeks got stuck in the houses and they were stolen, they are not compensated. They pay for your "anti-racism" - within many introductory forms. And also compensation for for foregone gains. But let's talk about Evros too. The information about refugees and illegal immigrants who came illegally to Greece in April through Evros was announced. I would point out, above all, that the agreement between the European Union and Turkey only speaks of the islands, not of Evros. And suddenly from where most of the islands came from, they come from Evros. Lucky? No, of course not. Because we all know that the'refractory immigrants' case is a para-state case of Turkey itself. Through Evros, then, four thousand passed, a small city. It was noted, however, that from the total number of newcomers, there are no persons who were not declared to Evros but continued their way undisturbed and ended up in Thessaloniki. And how many were there? Five, ten, fifteen? It was a thousand forty - eight people in total. In this state, humiliatingly, a thousand two hundred forty - eight undisturbed people crossed the border and made a five hundred kilometers away and arrived in Thessaloniki. And we have the famous fence, which is not kept by either the army or the police. More men have a prominent politician or businessman to keep him than the Evros fence, where there are cameras from which police authorities see that the wire is being destroyed at some point. And what are they doing? They're rushing. But the refugees and illegal immigrants always rush slowly. From there on we have the miserable status of hot spots, where there you have actually created social jungles. In the hot spots, gangs have already been set up that sell protection at the stores and whenever the police arrest one of them, the heavy industry, blossoming in SYRIZA's time, so-called non-governmental organizations, are being set up and rushing to police stations to take the people arrested out of the hands of the police. These are the great hot spots. Against all of this, in a much earlier and specifically on March 18, 2016, the Golden Dawn submitted a proposal for a law, which provides for penalties without suspension for those illegal immigrants who invade Greece and life prisoners in some cases for slaves. The main points of the legislation are as follows: at least two years' imprisonment for any foreigner who is illegally entering the country. The imprisonment must be without parole. Secondly, the penalty to be served in special detention centres away from the inhabited places, far from the social fabric. And as far as poachers are concerned, serious sanctions will also be imposed on conditionality. On this subject I would like to present in the minutes the law tabled in 2016 by the Golden Dawn. [[At this point, the Secretary-General of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Mr Nikolaos Michaloliakos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] If you voted for him, and it was a law of the state, there would be no current situation, a situation that is being eradicated. Even the Red Cross has issued a statement: "Great waves of refugees and illegal immigrants are expected." And you instead of legislating laws with which you will stop this wave, instead you make laws to make it easier. That is why you are fully responsible. I should also like to mention a question of the New Democracy and the visit of its President, Mr Mitsotakis, to Imbros. He said it was a model of peaceful coexistence between the two peoples. Open an encyclopedia to read. In Imbros, there were six and a half thousand Greeks and two hundred Turks living in 1927. Today, nine thousand Turks and two hundred Greeks live. The roots of Hellenism took place. Is this the peaceful cohabitation? Is that what you want to do in Greece? After fifty, sixty years, say that two million Greeks and eight million illegal immigrants live in the country? Oh, no. The Greek people do not want this and they will not allow it. You should know that with these statutes you build towers in the sand. Nothing changes natural reality. You're born Greek. You're not. This is the position of the Golden Dawn and in this position we remain firm. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] On the big national theme of Macedonia, Mr. Tzanakopoulos came out of the representative of the Government and said that favourable developments are expected. The spokesman of the New Democracy, Mr Kumoutsakos, said he was only interested in the constitutional review. You have given the name either this is Nova Macedonia or Gorna Macedonia. As for the fairy tale that this will be intransigent, leave it to some naive. In the United Nations, the name of each country must be translated into six languages. So that's not true. The Golden Dawn, expressing the will of the overwhelming majority of the Greek people, says a great "no" to the names "Górna Macedonia" and "Nova Macedonia" and keeps its position intact. No compromise for our Macedonia!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty-eight students and students and three educational attendants from the 3rd Agrinio High School (Second Chamber). The House welcomes you guys! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] My colleague, Mr Thanasis Michelis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u190	Thank you, Mr President. I have taken the floor in order to support the amendment by a general number of 1580 and a special number 6, which I tabled this morning. I thank the Minister in advance for his acceptance. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment concerns the absolute examinations of general high school. Why is this amendment coming? It comes because by d.d.46/2016 the way of exporting the general degree of the Graduates of the 3rd grade of the day-old and esoteric general high schools is regulated. However, the recent Law 4521/2018 was amended, in fact the number of courses examined in writing was reduced. So an amendment was necessary to adapt the current presidential decree to the new law. That is why I call on you to vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u191	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, Maria Therlerite, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u192	Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech on this bill, I could not go into the events of yesterday, with reference to the current title 'LIBERATION': 'Jerusalem - Gaza: An embassy and a massacre'. I would like to stress that the international community must strongly condemn the attacks by the Israeli army, which resulted in dozens dead and hundreds injured. The UN, the European Union and the Arab world must take immediate initiatives to unravel the situation. I am pleased that the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group also adopts a resolution on this. Coming now in this bill, ladies and gentlemen, the Greek Government within a suffocating and increasingly conservative framework of the European Union's refusal to take a stand and act on the causes of wars, on effective and comprehensive support and not the management of refugees, but also on the return of refugees from Turkey to Syria and on Turkey's invasion of Afrin, is trying to show another way, respecting the rights of refugees, trying to give hope again. The situation is extremely difficult. We all know that. Our responsibility is firstly to take all the necessary measures to improve the conditions of life and hospitality of the refugees and to guarantee the human and social rights of refugees in this unfailing reality and, above all, to eliminate their desperation and discouragement. It is therefore necessary not only to dismantle the islands as quickly as possible, with particular care for vulnerable groups, women and minors, but also to prepare the inland with appropriate hosting structures, operating with safety protocols, operating regulations, coordinators and managers with appropriate qualifications and experience. With the draft law we are debating today, we are firstly adapting Greek legislation to the requirements of Directive 2013/33/EU on the reception of applicants for international protection and, secondly, Directive 2014/66/EU of the European Parliament and of the European Council on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals within the framework of intra-corporate transfer. This is therefore an adaptation of European legislation to Greek. It is also obvious that the draft law is attempting to respond to the pressures from the European Union for speeding up and collapsing asylum procedures. It is therefore necessary to incorporate fully the Directive as a result of the need to complete the arrangements for the conditions for the provision of material reception conditions. According to the Citizens' Counselor, the adaptation to the directive is therefore much more comprehensive from a legal point of view and more comprehensive in the specificities of the terms and conditions of reception of asylum seekers. I would like to refer more specifically to the bill, which includes four parts. The first part concerns the requirements for the reception of applicants for international protection. Definitions are given for the implementation of this Directive and the framework for the reception of applicants for international protection is laid down. In other words, their rights and obligations are being informed, their free movement and their limitations are regulated, conditions and guarantees are introduced for prisoners, vulnerable persons and people with disabilities. Provision is also proposed for the protection of families, such as issues of medical examinations, employment, vocational training, etc., while specific provisions are introduced for vulnerable persons and legal protection is regulated against the decision to restrict or suspend the reception conditions. The second part shall be amended and supplemented by the provisions of Law 4452/2014 or the Code on Immigration and Social Integration, concerning the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals in intra-corporate transfer, and issues relating to asylum procedures shall be dealt with. The full incorporation of the directive therefore sets out the conditions for the entry into and residence of third-country nationals residing outside the Greek territory at the time they submit the application, which they submit within the framework of this intra-corporate transfer as managers, specialists or trainees. The third part includes arrangements amending Law.4375/2016 and Law.3060/2002. The aim is to improve and simplify administrative and judicial procedures for the provision of international protection. Finally, the last part concerns provisions of the Ministry of Migration Policy aimed at improving and simplifying the procedures of the services of the Ministry of Migration Policy. With regard to the first part, I would like to refer to Article 4, in which the provisions of the law apply also to minors, whether unaccompanied or not, and to separated minors, regardless of whether they have applied for international protection. As we know, the proposals of the Co-Privat of Citizens for use as a whole in the diaspora text, i.e. minors accompanied or not as they exist to date, and the proposal for an explicit and clear provision for the application of the law to minors, regardless of whether they have applied for international protection without prejudice to any more favourable provisions. Article 5 provides for the provision of information material to refugees and the use of interpreters in order to ensure that they have access to an important right, that of information. Furthermore, Article 7 on residence and freedom of movement, which has been criticised by the Citizens' Ombudsman, Amnesty International and other bodies, i.e. the need for rapid processing and effective monitoring of the application, which is a reason for the administration and cannot be a legitimate basis for a general restriction on personal freedom. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me two minutes, please, Mr. President. According to the Citizens' Counselor, the authority to issue by the Director of the Asylum Office a regulatory administrative act restricting the free movement of applicants for international protection is therefore incompatible with its competences. We'll have to see that. It can only belong to the Ministry for the Protection of Citizens. Finally, I would like to point out to the third party that Article 28 for the rapid response of imperative and urgent needs, arising from the large number of outstanding applications, establishes a working group with a certain time and work, which will deliver and contribute as much as possible to increasing the work produced in all phases of the international protection procedure, so as to address these long-term procedures. It will be an important tool to be able to accelerate the process. This is done at the expense of the ordinary budget, since the costs will be covered by financed programmes. It is very important in Article 31 to provide the possibility of exercising rights resulting from the conclusion of a cohabitation agreement and to improve existing provisions on family reunification. Finally, very important are the provisions, such as Article 36, which provides for compensation for the inhabitants of Chios and Lesvos who have suffered damages due to the distribution of applicants for international protection and the restoration of damages to olive trees, by steps and fences, which have been incurred in the municipality of Morias Lesvos. You realise that all this grant is paid by the revenue received from the paradoxes on the granting and renewal of residence permits for third-country nationals. Finally, I think it is time that, apart from adapting Greek legislation to the provisions of the directive, it is time to draw up policies for the social inclusion of refugees, those who choose to stay in our country. After all, we have the good practice of integrating the applicants into education. It is time to proceed with planning for the labour and wider social integration of refugees. From this point of view, I think that the draft law we are discussing will make a significant contribution in this direction. Despite the fact that we have a long way to go, the margins for resistance, the neoliberal and far-right concept of enclosed borders, xenophobia and racism, as well as the margins for solidarity and social justice are open. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u193	My colleague, Mrs Theodora, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today's bill gives us the opportunity to reopen a debate on the migration and refugee issue in Greece and Europe. Of course today the subject of the bill is the directive of the European Parliament and of the European Council. But the issue is, of course, wider and more complex. The current government has lifted and continues to raise the main burden of the refugee problem throughout Europe. It is a difficult time, which requires our country to remain at the level of the circumstances. Refugee flows, of course, have declined considerably in recent years. However, there is always an increase in the summer months, since summer is favouring the passage of boats from Turkey. In fact, as we have been informed lately, there is an increase in flow from Evros. And, of course, international developments do not seem to lead to the declining of the war situation in the Middle East with what this means for the continuation of the refugee flows. All this time, the islands of the eastern Aegean were heavily burdened. We can say that they lifted all this burden on their backs, since we had to welcome the people who came to seek an opportunity to live peacefully on the European continent, but also on the other hand, we had to protect them as a people. The inhabitants of the islands and local communities have been more burdened by local society and their economy. We therefore need to find a sustainable solution at this point so that we can help both sides. In relation to what we are debating today, many of the regulations of the current bill have already been adopted on the initiative of the government over the last two years. Therefore, the European directive does not only contain new provisions but essentially consoles the direction in which we have been moving in recent years. I am very pleased that the bill places a great deal of emphasis on the protection of minors arriving in Greece and asylum seekers. This is a very sensitive category, which is already being dealt with in our country with special attention. In fact, particularly unaccompanied minors is a huge issue, since they are children who have lost their parents in this sudden war and have no limits. They suddenly find themselves in an unknown country, they don't speak the language of their own and they don't know anyone at all. In fact, all that children experience at such a tender age are incomprehensible. These arrangements of the bill are therefore crucial and aim at ensuring the rights of minors. Priority is given to the search for natural parents. Already from the existing statistics, a sufficient number of places have been created for unaccompanied minors in hospitality structures, as vacant posts now exist. I would like to state here how much unaccompanied children there are and what structures we have offered them. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Theodora Megalonikou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] There is also specific reference to the education of refugee children, since these children should continue to have access to education, however difficult it may be to do so under these conditions. The medical coverage of asylum seekers is also very important. Public hospitals and CEDEFOP are the only ones with responsibility for health examination, which is very important. With regard to the asylum procedure now, our country must win the bet of faster completion of the process. Within 15 days of the submission of the request, the applicant shall be fully informed of its rights and received an applicant’s application form. The government has therefore set as its main objective the immediate completion of the request as quickly as possible, which is achieved by a more general shortening of the deadlines, so that the procedures can be completed more quickly. I believe that it will be a solution to this problem: those who are entitled to asylum will receive it and those who have been in advance only to seek a facility for their stay will not receive it. Refugees I think they are vulnerable, and many times there may also be victims of traficking and exploitation in general. All these phenomena are not tolerated and can be extinct with the effective management of the refugee issue. I am well aware that a large number of refugees are causing many problems. After all - we are a small country with ten million inhabitants. It is therefore objectively difficult to manage easily, both economically and organisationally, even socially, the thousands - I can say millions - refugees who are fleeing to Greece in the hope of living later in Europe. The Greek citizens, especially on the islands, have experienced great changes. But let's not forget that we, too, have known the uproar. We know very well what it's like to be kicked out of your own home from your own home. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a second. Therefore, despite difficulties and adversities, I am sure that we will also be worthy of the circumstances in this difficult situation. Let's not forget that since ancient times we have the reputation of hospitality and foreign Zeus. The main thing is that in no way can we lose our humanity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Mrs. Big Housekeeper. Mr. Christos Pappas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u196	One fact to inform the Greek people who sees us: The 'Judanese' - to say so - businessmen of the government, at the expense of the massacre in Gaza, have put, as the people say, 'the tail on the legs' and have put up the scheduled sitting today for the 16.00 meeting of the Committee on Foreign and Security, which would be concerned with the ratification of the agreement with Israel. Ladies and gentlemen of the conflict, you are not saved. Whatever you do, no matter what resolutions your components make, you are not saved. Careful resolutions and resolutions, as we have heard from the Stephen, condemning the Israeli army. They do not condemn Israel, as the Israeli army is an automatic robot and does not belong to Israel. So under the shadow of the terrorist attack of Israel and its army, the meeting is taking place today. Yesterday we had "black" Monday of the history of the struggle for the martyr Palestinian people, a struggle for freedom. So far it cost sixty dead and thousands injured. Among the dead were eight children, handicapped, old people, etc., while from the Israeli authorities, from the Israeli army - and that matters - there was not one dead. In conclusion, I would like to say that yesterday's events along with Israel's military operations against Syria and Iran once again prove the terrorist character of the state, created seventy years ago and cost humanity millions dead and two world wars. Yesterday's images of the Palestinians fighting non-reckoning costs and not fearing their lives, fighting with slings against a powerful occupation army, one thing can mean: that the Palestinians again proved that they deserve their freedom. To the object now. The Minister for Migration Policy, Mr Vitsas, has recently stated in a crisis of sincerity, I would say, that in the summer we will have increased flows - as you say - and that we will have difficult times. It is a crime on your part, and especially at this time, which is on fire in the Eastern Mediterranean and the Middle East, to facilitate the influx of illegal immigrants and refugees, as you will be doing today in the vote on this bill. I say 'lmmigrants' because they have already come to the light of publicity documents and your own statistics, which clearly shows that the vast majority of incoming illegally from the country's maritime and land borders are not from Syria, but more than a hundred countries of the world. Ladies and gentlemen, it would not be conspiracy, but the admission of the morbid reality and the actions taken by your coup d'état, this unholy alliance of SYRIZA and ANELs' benefactors, that the purpose of the legislations of the present coup d'état's policy is the complete change of character of the Greek state, the destruction of our country. The problem of illegal immigration is very big, it's huge. In order to resolve it, therefore, we need to conceive reason and national interests. All of this is contained in the proposal for a Law of the Golden Dawn since 2016. The need, therefore, not for today's bill, but for a strict legislative framework, in order to curb the paths of illegal immigration flows, as you say, becomes imperative. Because, among other things, these are purely Muslim populations, coming mainly from North Africa and Asia, with customs and customs completely alien from Greek and European and their assimilation from Greek society is impossible. Also, because there is a large number of people with extreme Islamic views among them, and so the risk of carrying out new many terrorist attacks is increasing. Also, and why public health is being directly threatened, with cases of epidemic diseases by all those who came home uninvited. Finally, there is a constant risk of transnational or inter-religious conflicts and turmoil between the various migrant communities, with disastrous consequences for public order and national security. And I ask: what will happen with all these 'Allah aqbar', if we have a hot episode or war conflict with Turkey? These are the "Snake Egg" that we warm to our crust. Given the demographic problem of Greece and Europe in general, it is easy to realise that the size of the population is enormous. There's a big crime. Finally, I would like to say that we are seeing that the ministers of the conflict, you who sit on the nice benches, like the current - and not only - Minister for Migration Policy, as is said, works not to resolve the problem, but to manage a situation which, because that will be the result - is the depletion of the Greeks. We can see without hindsight the reality and see that the measures to be taken towards the immediate resolution of the problem, apart from the legislative proposal made by the Golden Dawn, are the automatic re-promotions of illegal immigrants in Turkey, while at the same time keeping our land and sea borders from the Greek Army, by the Greek Armed Forces alone. The fact that within two years, since your 2016 legislation, the government began to relegate itself on the same matter by canceling and provisions, which it had just introduced, undoubtedly proves that the problem has taken dimensions that you are not able to manage. Only a national government, a Greek government, a government which will fight for the good of the Greeks and will come from the Greeks, will be supported by the people and work for the people, can do the above. In this direction is fighting the movement of Greek nationalists, which you all of the democratic arch rabies are fighting. I can assure you that we 'bad', we 'fascists', will fight at any cost to overthrow the mortal course, this vortex in which you have put the country. And you put it not only you of SYRIZA, you put it in the New Democracy. Today we have an anniversary since Samaras opened our northwest border with the North continent and all the Albanians got in. So we're not leaving you. And not only will we not let you, but we will not allow you to turn the country into a vastly damaged landscape, where the real free and privileged will be the illegals who have secured shelter, food, without obligations, while the real slaves will be the Greeks, who will only be taxed and endured. That's not gonna happen! And it won't happen with Golden Dawn!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Megamystakas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u198	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by telling you that the SYRIZA-ANEL conflict is suffering in many respects and unfortunately it verifies this, it confirms this to us in every bill that comes. And I will tell you why the same is happening with this bill that you have brought us today, starting with the amendments. The Minister has today accepted three amendments. The two of them are ministerial, and the other one in our view is that they also come from the Ministry. What are these amendments? They are amendments amending laws adopted in 2017 and a Presidential Decree of 2016. That's what you're doing. Legislative handiwork. Now that's clear. We cannot go along with the policy 'we see and do' on very serious issues, on intellectual rights and on issues relating to the Ministry of Education, but also on the amendment of the Ministry of the Interior, which, apart from the fact that you have made it wrong, we very much fear that you are coming to create a 'photographic' position. We cannot accept that within the Greek Parliament you want us to be part of this error - not to say something heavier - that you are doing. To bring something today and to know that in two months' time, it was roughly and without design structure, to vote in favour, we cannot accept it. And you're not just suffering from the law-making. You are also suffering in the legislative planning and in particular in your national planning, when you were talking about refugee, refugees and immigrants. Before becoming a government, you went out and said that Greece has no borders, that everyone can come to our country, that we are hospitable. Yeah, we're hospitable. Whoever has a real problem, we can accept him, help him, and we have proved too many times what Greece is and who the Greeks are. However, we cannot accept what has happened now. You didn't know that, if there's no prevention, if there's no care that these flows don't exist...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u199	How do we do it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u200	There could be this cooperation with Europe a long time ago. We should have hit the door from the first moment. We saw how the flow decreased. Certainly not with your own efforts, but with Europe's management of the problem. I know it's not a Greek problem. I know who created it, as most people in here know. However, we cannot participate in this design. You knew very well that this legislative handshake is still going on in this bill. It's a bill made up of four parts. The first and second part are guidelines for 2013 and 2014 and I do not understand why you did not bring them into nr.4375/2016. The same issue was discussed by this law, which you now come to amend with the third part of today's bill. We are talking about things that you should not accept either. We do a double job, in a country where we all have to put the machines in the full and work on how to improve our situation, not how to correct the mistakes you have made. Previous ones made a lot of mistakes. We recognize them. You highlight them, too. However, do not continue with your own practice with the policy that has reached us at this point. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] This bill is a delayed attempt to improve this tragic situation, which our country is experiencing today because of the abundance of migrants and refugees, especially in the islands of the north-eastern Aegean. In this context, apart from the substance of the bill, which includes some positive provisions which are self-evident and, as many of you have described them, we cannot comment on the disgraceful conditions prevailing in almost all detention and hospitality centres of refugees and immigrants. We can only be ashamed of the lack of health care structures, but also of the lack of hygiene conditions. These conditions are not for people. This embarrasss us worldwide, because all of this travels with the image of the whole world. They're disgusting our country. These centres live families, mothers, children and an even more special group, unaccompanied minors. We should have taken care of them and not be in this labyrinth or the deadlock in which we are now. You've heard and seen that slave trade circuits are blossoming. Even cases of prostitution have been reported in the centers, as well as sexual harassment. This is why it is your fault of the government, to the extent that you have left or allowed or often sought to develop unruly camps anywhere. All this started three years ago, with the flows you could not hold back from Turkey, a country that has escalated its aggressive mood - we all see it today - and which uses immigration as a lever for both our country and the European Union to achieve its objectives without accounting for human rights or any such. We cannot worry about the flow of refugees we have in 2018. According to you, there are seven thousand ninety-four for 2018 and we see that the situation goes away, as happened in 2015. I don't know if our country can handle this. The first wave swept through our islands and I don't know what's going to happen with the second one. I'm afraid he'll give the final blow. In this context we are also concerned by the increased influx of Evros. While two thousand six hundred eighteen people have entered from Evros, two thousand seven hundred refugees and immigrants have entered. You must act immediately. A structure must be created which will record who comes to Greece in order to be allocated to hospitality centres, so that we do not notice phenomena in line with those of Lesvos. We cannot overlook that. We must immediately dismantle our islands. It has arrived in the summer, the tourist season has already begun and our islands have become soul storehouses. We cannot have eight and a half thousand refugees in a camp that fits only three thousand and we are talking about Mytilini. We cannot guarantee - and we are sure that neither can you - that there will be no problems, both between refugees and the Greeks in the region. We are very afraid that we will be in very bad situations if we do not act immediately. I now ask those with knowledge in this House: how much billions have been spent on migration, how have they been spent and why are we living in this situation? I have the impression that with the money that has gone to migration, things should be much better than they are now. Unfortunately, however, we are seeing a large 'biza' with the solidarity and the NGOs. What is happening, too, with the joint declaration by the European Union and Turkey since 2016, which unfortunately is our only tool to manage the refugee crisis? What about the returns to Turkey, for those who have not yet approved asylum? You know they make up about 70% of those asylum seekers. In 2016 eight hundred returned, six hundred eighty-eighty and in 2018 just eighty-six so far. We've spent half the year. But also the other tools we have and these I do not see us using them, such as the bilateral readmission protocol we have with Turkey, but also the European Union's one with Turkey, which at some point led to a significant number of returns. Unaccompanied children, as I said before, are currently estimated to be three thousand and only a thousand are hosted in a center. Here is a problem, it is a problem, it is important and we must resolve it. We know, we have heard in the committees that the procedure to date, whether or not asylum can take three years. Five applications for asylum are dealt with daily, while, as the Minister said, sixty thousand have been made over a year. That's the evidence we have. To understand it, these sixty thousand to be able in one year to consider them, a hundred sixty - five applications a day should be considered. Whatever we do now, if the machines don't work in the "full" machine, it'll be too late and it'll be a little too little. It has turned out over the years that the government, unfortunately, is a step behind developments. The problem is gigantic in front of us, and I don't know if you can solve it. You are late to legislate on it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Very little time, Mr President. This bill as an idea can be very positive. He should've been here long before. There are gaps again, which I have no time to report to you. They have, of course, been mentioned by our rapporteur. These problems need to be solved in dt time, but neither independence nor transparency, nor any of these guarantees are lost. You have once again demonstrated that you are not doing well, that you are waiting for a problem to come to the unprecedented and then come to do the self-evident thing. How many times have we heard today from Congressmen saying that we are doing what is self-evident, taking care of human souls! That's what's led us here today. Please, let us look at matters more carefully, without just serving our parties and our ideological perceptions, but always having the good of our country as a guide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u201	Before we move to the next speaker, let me have a communication. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-one students and students and two educational attendants from the 6th Stavroupolis of Thessaloniki. We welcome you to the House, boys.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u202	Mr President, may I have the floor for a minute, so that Mr Megamomustakas will not stay with the question?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u203	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u204	You mentioned five asylum applications. Forty-nine asylum applications are dealt with daily only in Moria. It's the average every day. I don't know where you've got that evidence. I know that something had been said by the prefect, but it was completely wrong and when I was in Mytilini, the capital of Lesvos - I say that by charming - I explained it again to her.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u205	Good. Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mrs Anastasia Christodoulopoulos has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u206	Good evening. Before I go into this, I too would like to denounce the Israeli attack on the Palestinians, which demonstrates precisely the barbarity that prevails on the international stage, which, through symbolic actions such as the transfer of the US embassy to Jerusalem, is trying to create new de facto events. In the morning I was in the exhibition of Greek and Portuguese sketchists, who was inaugurated in the Metro of the Constitution. There, then, among many - there was a lot of it, because it is the whole report dedicated to the war and it is called "War S.A.". - I separated a sketch of Greek sketch artist Panos Zacharis, which shows a tanks and babies to throw stones in the tanks. So he says the guide to the tanks: "Sir, commander, I can't, they're infants", and the commander says to him: "Well, do it all, wipe it out, because maybe some of it will change the world at some point." So what do I want to say with that? That the murders of children, the drowning of children in the seas are not parallel losses, it is a conscious choice because, indeed, some or all of these children, who live the torture of war every day, may be in the forefront of those who will change the world. So we are at a time when we may have to familiarize ourselves with Greek society and ask ourselves: 'But what has finally happened? What has happened and, while the world had to denounce the war, it denounces the victims of war, the refugees? How can society, and societal societies all have gone so far'? You know, fifty years ago - because now there are tributes to the French May of '68 - all of Europe, the whole world, the whole world, the whole world, they were shaking up by the anti-war demonstrations that were taking place in Vietnam. All men were talking about peace, love for life, and today, which is becoming the barbaric war in ten - fifteen parts of the Earth, no one speaks. No one denounces anything. What happened? How did we get that way? How did people get that way? How did they get into their crab? How can this ideology, which says 'all against all', which is the basis of war, be adopted by the majority of European societies and not just? That is the issue for me: what we are doing. Is it possible today to discuss and make reasons here, which I have heard all of you, and to support the Minister for the bill? So what do you want this bill to say? What do you want this country to do? Can this country mess with the mighty? Can this country, which is under pressure from everywhere, leave the weak, the weak Greeks, because we are supposed to have a policy on electoral clienteles, weak refugees, because we want open borders, our weak fellow people all over the world, which we express our solidarity, because we want to make figures? That's what we hear. That's what we hear in this Chamber. The political reason is out to where it doesn't go anymore. And we come here to give answers, at last, and say what really is going on. We're all acting like we don't know. They appear here and are all in favour of the EU Joint Declaration. - Turkey. I don't mean, all right, I'm looking at Mr. Palphie. At the same time, the EU Joint Declaration. Turkey provides for geographical restriction. They are, therefore, in favour of and geographically constrained, they themselves. And yet, they themselves are leading in the protests in Lesvos, pretending to be sympathetic to the drama of islanders over the years, while in fact they have been supporting geographical restriction. And not only the geographical restriction, they all support it. They started by drowning the refugees who are coming, this in 2015, that we are not guarding the sea borders. Today they have arrived to absolute irrationality and say what goes down on them, because they have nothing to say. So here we have to discuss, what does Europe want from Greece at last? Do we understand? It therefore wants Greece to be the guards of exit, and Turkey wants the guards of the entry of refugees and migrants into the European area and in the islands. That's what they want from us. That is why they have foreseen the geographical restriction. That is why they are terrorized when we make a transfer to the inland of vulnerable groups, which is permitted to do so. That's what all this panic is about. What else does Europe have to ask us to sleep in peace? Do you think so? What else does he want? They say to us: "Let's shorten the deadlines for asylum. Proceed to detention even of unaccompanied minors. Do it all. I want to sleep in peace. That's my problem." What do we have to do there? Should we denounce the SYRIZA government? Should we report the ministers? The ministers will do what? Just give us a suggestion at last. Now they're showing up realists. Do you know what the proposal is? The proposal is why we don't get out of here. "So many enter, but no one leaves." Deport them, boys, before the asylum decision comes out. Let's get them out of here. Let's get them back on track. To demolish the Geneva Treaty, too. That's what they want, that there's no civilization, that the universe be covered by barbarity. And they're asking us to do that. Who? What do we do? Get people out of the islands? I ask you, anyway, because I ask these questions, what happened to the islands? It's been a million people over the islands. We didn't see any demonstration. We have not seen any fascists leading the people's protests. But what changed, and now suddenly all of a sudden, together with a soul to protect tourism, the economy and everything else they think? I know - and I admit - that the islanders are tired and right. They also hear us criticising Europe because it does not make a proportionate distribution and sharing of responsibility. And they tell you: "We will only take the weight, will we only have the responsibility of receiving it? Will the rest of Greece remain unrelenting'? But that is not where nobody agrees. You'll see. Flows from the land borders have already increased and the northern borders have started to panic. Then Crete will bronze for its tourism, then Patras and then I don't know who else, because here we don't understand that this issue, which is the cause of the war, cannot be managed by "aspirins". That's the reality. That is why I and my position in committee said that this bill was the best possible in this terrible association of powers, in this inhumane situation we are all experiencing, where we are all addicted to death, blood, misery. And at the same time we're supposed to want to go back to the nation-state. We didn't understand anything about globalisation. And here nationalism fills people's souls, poison them and become the Greek Parliament - which was a model in 2015, even for Nobel Peace had been proposed for the islands - the arena of who will say the most fascist, racist, the most xenophobic argument. That's the disappointment. This is what societies see and see. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President of Parliament is ringing at this point.]] I heard that some people in this Chamber referred to the 'lush' that I said in 2015. To understand the level of intelligence of the people who took the floor that apart from the fact that they have not understood why and how so many people came in 2015, about how and why in the end all these people did not create any problems in the country, about how and why our country showed up the only one that kept international legitimacy, while everyone else serves the feasibility, parties and governments everywhere, are still working on "they". They're still working because they think I made a terrible blow.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u207	Mrs. Christodoulou, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u208	I will end in a minute, Mr President. I defended the refugees in the squares, in Omonoia Square in particular. I, as Minister, had to answer why he is there, in these absurd questions from the xenophobic channels, who were orchestrating a whole campaign against the SYRIZA Government. That is why I would like to say that I will not respond to a retreat which has been heard in this House by some neo-nazi cannibal, because it is a cannibal. What I will wish for is Greek justice to carry out its debt in order for the House to purify this fascist, sexist, racist, xenophobic speech that we hear and monitor and cannot react. That's the point. We must not be Europe. The 2015 exemption also continues to be an exception in 2018. The Greek Government is the only government throughout Europe and throughout the world that had the courage to say so, to express its solidarity, to apply legality and to try to balance the demands of Europeans with reality and international protection. And instead of being proud to have such a government, we find an opportunity to make our micropolicy, because that is what it is. When the whole world lives in barbarism, when there is not a man to speak and condemn what is happening, they dare to talk about this government and about its legislative initiatives, which are often going on, they actually walk away, trying to stay human, giving a signal, a message that there is still hope, that we can resist this people and the blackmailing of Europeans and the majestics, and that we can remain people who love life, that we love human needs, and we are not unimportant, hate the victims of war. If we can be here and talk about refugees in this vulgar way that we have heard from most representatives of opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, Mrs Christodoulou. After consultation, the Bureau asks for the insulting and unacceptable expressions heard in this Chamber to be deleted from the Minutes and to be accepted by Mrs Christodoulopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u210	Mr President, the Presidents should also have reflexes when these things are heard. It's not on everyone's own initiative what he's going to do when these vulgarities are heard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u211	All right, Mrs. Christodoulou. Mr. Delia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u212	Thank you, Mr President. Today's bill is incorporated into the European Union's Greek legislation on immigration and refugee, except, of course, the changes to the worst it is trying to do in the field of asylum. I think that no one can deny that this bill is'swipe' in fact with the reactionary agreement of the European Union - Turkey in 2016, which the government is often proclaiming. It was an agreement, however, which tramples the 1951 International Treaty of Geneva on Refugee Law, a treaty - and I remind you - which has been successful thanks to the decisive contribution made by the socialist countries shortly after World War II, where, of course, international coexistence favoured such conquests for the people. The EU-Turkey Agreement not only confirmed what it was hypocritically proclaiming, but it also had a very specific inhuman effect: the unacceptable caging of thousands of refugees and migrants in terrible conditions on the islands of the eastern Aegean, and the arrivals of refugees in Evros are growing lately. Climbing where people are stacked in camps like Moria and "BIAL", without the necessary measures to live in human beings, where asylum applications of these people are being mocked, while their transfer to others is banned, appropriately shaped spaces in the mainland, and we often have the explosions of their desperation. Where all this tragic situation has very serious consequences for the islands' lives too. Where slaves do gold jobs, and where all kinds of non-governmental organizations perish. Where fascists and Nazis find fertile ground to throw their Nazi poison and attack, as in Mytilini, with flares even to women and young children, hiding the real causes and the true guilty. Are these not the consequences of the agreement between the European Union, Turkey and the Greek Government, but of the general immigration policy of the European Union, with which the opposition is also in agreement and for which the JRC had warned very early and which it had denounced? This issue, especially after the agreement of the European Union with Turkey, is not even more linked to the geopolitical struggles and blackmails that are taking place in the region? Is it really a coincidence that today's bill comes when the conditions in the region become more and more dangerous to the people? While the imperialist aggression in Syria is dangerously escalating, while Israel's state killing machine is hematizing the people of Palestine? While the war preparations of the United States, NATO, the European Union and the Greek Government are increasing their roles in this. While the Turkish bourgeoisie intensifies its aggression and the bucket of imperialist antagonisms is becoming increasingly complicated? But is this not all the reason for giving birth to and increasing the caravans of refugees and displaced persons? How are the European Union and the Greek governments dealing with all this? They are increasingly restricting the right of those who are rooted in the interventions and wars to find protection and asylum in the European Union. So does the government and this is - we think - all the substance of today's bill. All Euro-Union asylum directives, introduced into Greek legislation, are increasingly removed from any protection provided for by international conventions, especially the Geneva Convention. This is an example of the limitation of the time margins for the necessary formal actions by the refugees in the bill on euphemism and as a ‘speed process’. These are unacceptable, inhumane punishment arrangements, in which, according to the suffocating deadlines set, the request for asylum is not cancelled in the event that a deadline is lost or someone is late to take the decision on his request. In addition, it is at risk of deporting even if it has recourse to administrative courts, as has been the case so far. As for workers in the Asylum and Refugee Committees, they live with the safety of the contractor, work at an exile rate and above you delay payments for their wages. I'm closing up with the question of the training of the chauffeurs. It is a matter that reveals, I think, all hypocrisy of the government and the European Union. According to the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, about one third of all refugees in our country are minors, close to twenty thousand. Only in the first eight months of 2017 were seven thousand fifty-seven arrivals, of which the eight hundred thirty-eight, according to official figures, were unaccompanied children, often without hope of reunification with their families. The Ministry of Education came out last year and announced the inclusion of all these refugees in schools. It has been a year since and not three thousand of these children have been registered in the schools of the country and in all levels, and only those on mainland Greece, because in the islands the right of these children to education is simply not the case. From what they go to school, other schools go into the morning school, rounded into twenty-eighths, triangulars and put sections, without any terms and conditions, without receptions with the necessary staff to help these children, in order to adapt them to the necessary educational material, and others go to intercultural schools, which have turned into refugees, with many problems of infrastructure and staff. As for the advertised Refugee and Education Structures, i.e. the participation of children of camps in afternoon classes, they began too late. Some have now started, a few months ago, in Genoa, by recruiting alternates literally at the last minute, in the absence of interpreters, without logistics and with the various NGOs to perish, even claiming pedagogical - and not just - a role. Eventually, the refugee issue is a classic issue, to which the positions of the JRC are responded. We consider it to be only through the conflict with Euro-Union imperialist policy. Yes, Mrs. Christodoulopoulos, because you wondered, we are against the powerful, as our grandparents did against the Germans once with the EAM.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u213	Mrs Vulture has the floor from New Democracy and will be followed by the parliamentary representative of the Communist Party, Mr Pafilis. There are four other speakers next to complete the list. At the end of the day, the Minister will close.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u214	Mr President, may I have the floor after Mr. Pafiley, please?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u215	Of course, Minister. Come on, Mrs. Vulge, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u216	Thank you, Mr President. Look, I don't know how many times we're going to come to this room to discuss a piece of legislation on the refugee and migration crisis and how many more times we're going to serve aspirins on this issue. I personally have never fallen into the trap of targeting for example - because it spoke before me - Mrs Christodoulopoulos and say that she is responsible for what happened in her term of office or in the first half of SYRIZA governance. Mrs Christodoulopoulos applied SYRIZA's policy. That's why I personally never went into the trap of speaking by name. It was SYRIZA's decision to do what happened in the country. Every word of yours, every act of yours since 2011 that broke out the war in Syria, since 2013 that the refugee crisis has come to its root until some time ago, but also today with what you legislate, leads to this situation of increasing problems and creating new problems, because the source of evil is in your time-consuming views on immigration. It's enough to see what you wrote and what you've been talking about for years, leading to a general invitation every time. You should see what you said in your political decisions, in your programmes. I would remind you what Mr Tsipras said: 'Let us all accept and give them papers to go abroad' and 'No FONTEX force and no fence can stop the phenomenon'. Mr. Tsipras said that. Mr. Stathakis reached the point in November 2014, presenting your development programme, saying that growth will go better if more nationality is given to immigrants. That is to say, for development, in 2014 you had the nationality of immigrants, and now you have cannabis and drugs. In your 2012 programme you said that you are supporting an open and lasting legalisation system. So who caused all this? Who made the general invitation? And as soon as you were in power, you continued the general invitations. The traffickers were handing out brochures to the camps in Turkey saying that now with the new government, immigration policy will change. He came here all of a sudden a million and a half people. The refugee crisis was not on the ground in 2015. You've made the indecentness of Ensemble. The Macedonians have closed the border with the Skopje, which is still closed, and you are talking with the Skopje to resolve the issue of the name with closed borders from them. You accepted the Agreement between the European Union and Turkey without demanding that the borders be opened. You brought NATO to the Aegean. I remember that when we were with Samaras in Wales at a NATO meeting, Mr Vitsas - I do not see the Minister here - he said here in Greece that NATO should self-destruct. Obviously you brought NATO into the Aegean to see it better and dissolve it better. I don't see any other explanation. Then you started. What was one of your first instruments in June 2015 to signal? Change of the law on nationalities. "Here we share the good nationalities." You didn't have any more misery. You went for the capital controls and made the law on citizenship and continued the rupture, because Greece had laws on immigration. The most excellent law of 2005 was the Minister of the Interior Prokopi Pavlopoulou, the current President of the Republic. That law foresaw all the things you now bring to pieces, because you've already done it. And border guards also provided freedom of movement for legally resident and imprisoned and fines for those who illegally enter the country, but also for those who are imprisoned under the special status of refugees, but within the meaning of the 1951 Geneva Convention, which Greece ratified in '59. Mrs Christodoulou mentioned this. The Geneva Convention does not protect everyone entering a country. It protects those who have refugee status. However, you have never separated refugees from immigrants and still do not. You state the law of 2005. You took note of the 2007 supplement. You state the law of 2011. You have also ripped off the 2014 law and now you come and bring us provisions. You made the law on April 2016. You voted for him in urgent procedure, saying that he will solve all the asylum problems. Now, two years later, you are coming again with another asylum law, and with the previous law you have undermined the European Union-Turkey Agreement, and you have circumvented the agreement of the political leaders under the President of the Republic. Neither are you now separating refugees from immigrants nor are you strengthening closed hospitality structures. And that was decided at the meeting of all political leaders under the President of the Republic. At the moment, the bill you bring is a repetition of 2016, just with some facilities you make on the asylum issue. This law that you voted on two years ago said that foreign or stateless who is seeking international protection is not only detained for the reason that he has applied for international protection, and that he has entered illegally or remains in our country without a residence permit. Beware: "Oneman or stateless," you said. You don't say refugee. So this is where you've made a general invitation again. This provision you have kept. So since you do not respect the agreements, you do not respect the agreements, you do not apply the agreements of the European Union, this statement and so on, since they are all the same and no distinction is made, so the rights of the refugee are currently being violated within the meaning of the Geneva Convention and you are not moving forward. What does the European Union and Turkey say? It says that all irregular immigrants return immediately. Are they coming back right away? Oh, no. So it's not up to the deal. You've got to do something you guys are government. What else does he say? It says that for every Syrian who goes from Greece to Turkey, one of them will go to the rest of Europe. Is the deal kept? Oh, no. Have they opened the border? Oh, no. What exactly is NATO doing? I said before, Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u217	I heard you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u218	I imagine it will self-destruct after the refugee crisis is over. What, after all, you have legislated - and you are legislating today, you are just trying a little bit to help things - is'shoot dogs' and direct awards for feeding and infrastructure where a million-dollar dance has been set up. Two years later you have not found a system to be a competition for the feeding of refugees and it is always specific that companies, who take these contracts directly. And the result is never going to the refugees' olives, which they like. Isn't that right? There's no olives in their diet, even though they're asking for it. We were told by Mr Kammenos that he would put an ISO on what refugees would prefer. So you do not bring legislation to correct the situation. You're just bringing in another piece of legislation, believing that with this scum you'll give some solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u219	The parliamentary representative of the Communist Party, Mr Pafilis, will speak and Minister Vitsas will follow. Here you go, Mr. Paphie.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u220	Today's meeting is shattered by a new heated crime by a new massacre of the Palestinian people. There are over sixty dead, two thousand seven hundred injured. Dead children, minors, sling tanks. Your world, the capitalist! And this slaughter is another slaughter for those who ask what? The selfishness of having a home and facing, not now, years of total genocide. This was Israel's offer to the United States of America and the "Dambly Good" Trump as the Prime Minister said. The "Damnly Good" Trump! Offer to blood, lots of blood. And that's symbolic you know about the past, because the history of imperialism is painted with the blood of tens of millions and peoples of the whole, but most importantly it's a sign for the future, for what's going to happen in the region, and how to deal with your allies, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, SYRIZA and all other parties. They're not your allies? What is it? Aren't the United States of America and the "Blessedly Good" Trump your strategic allies? Who's the shooter? Israel's killer state. Yes or no? How many years? But he is a strategic ally of the government and other parties. And here we hear jokes. It is another fact that it is a strategic ally, but that you are working together in high school against Iran - and I say it specifically and let one disprove it - of airline in the Grevenes region and elsewhere, and that you are participating in all the projects that exist in the region and that some people are complaining, I am not hypocritical about this massacre. You're denounced a crime in which you're involved. And I'm going to say what's the difference between this blood and the humanitarian voices that sound and are emotional? What matters is oil, gas, the interests of multinationals. Isn't that what we're doing in the area and for strategic control? Yes or no? But these are the capitals, and that is what serves the geostrategic upgrade that you all swear here and the people must understand. The interests of capital, Greek and foreign, are built on the blood of Palestinians, Syrians, Afghans, Libyans, all.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u221	It used to be that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u222	For all governments, I say for everyone. You don't do anything different and you'll hear that too. Against this crime, what attitude does the government and other urban parties take? They recommend restraint. We're recording - he says - the massacre. We know her. And what do we do? We recommend restraint, and the government's Ministry of Foreign Affairs specialises in the communication. What's he saying? To the Israelis: 'No disproportionate violence'. So don't kill fifty, sixty, kill less. And to Hamas: 'Sea protests'. Don't use slings or anything else because they didn't use guns. Equal distances to the perpetrator and victim. Your Europe is the one you support, what does it say? Same thing. This statement makes and you are all aligning, all the other parties, on that statement. Audrey. On the other hand, the House unanimously recognises the Palestinian state in its decision and the Government does not implement it in practice now. That's the big hypocrisy. Indeed, the meeting today of the committee on the agreement - look at how time brings them - Greece - Israel. Question. Will you cancel it? You're going to change it? What kind of union tricks are these? Is that symbolic? Go out and say here that we're canceling the deal because of this massacre. Don't do it. The opposite happens. Because Mr Balafas - Mr Vitsats has not yet spoken - he made a structured position, so we should go on the issue of refugees and immigration. You know that each government and every political force are not judged by what it says but by what it does, although many times it says it indirectly and does other things. So let's take the reasons. Do we all agree that the causes of increased electricity, refugee and immigration are two main reasons? We agree. Firstly, it is war and, secondly, it is the robbery exploitation of countries that have huge wealthy production sources, where people are hungry, because it is in the hands of a handful of capitalist, multinational business groups. We agree. Let us see, then, in these two causes, what a attitude the political parties are taking and so the Greek people must judge. War. Question. Who is intervening and conducting the war? Who is it? Is he a stranger? Isn't the European Union? Aren't they the United States of America? Aren't they other regional powers? Who attacked Iraq? Who attacked Syria and created this whole situation? Who attacked Afghanistan? Who attacked all the lengths and backs of the planet? Isn't that them? Is there anyone who says it's not? Oh, no. It's the reality. So what attitude did previous governments and today's war stand against? Tell us one not to tell you and the others before about a sample to move it. Tell us one. You have signed everything and the decisions of NATO all up to, Mr Balafa, and the lifting of the commitment to a non-first nuclear strike signed by the Minister of National Defence of the SYRIZA Government at the NATO Summit. I say this because you had something to do with it and the peace movement once and for all. So tell us, what exactly does the government do toward American imperialism, which is dragging into the slaughter of peoples all along with others? He doesn't denounce. The opposite does. What are you doing? You give new bases, new facilities. Yes or no? In Syros there will be a new base and let the shipyard tricks be left. In Souda there has been an upgrade and, in fact, in the greeting speech the Prime Minister himself said that it is very positive. Thirdly, in Larissa, in the center of Greece, it becomes a drones base. Fourthly, in Alexandroupolis it becomes the basis of helicopters. So you're giving it all away? Yes or no? Do you participate in the plans of others in the area? Did you bring NATO to the Aegean? Why did you bring it? To stop refugees and immigrants? Here's the results. In other words, we are licking our fingers when we do not realize that the concentration of huge military forces in the region along with NATO and the bogey of this government is not relevant, but it is related to the new plans being prepared against Iran and other countries, with a risk of being a holocaust throughout the region. I am referring to the previous governments. In Afghanistan, we did everything we asked for. In Iraq, we did everything we asked for. In Yugoslavia, what the PASOK government has asked for was to do and what you are saying today. Another government and the party. He participated in everything, on the other hand, and he said to make an announcement to report it. In Libya, he participated in everything. Has Syria's embassy left yet? Did the Greek Government say one not anywhere in the sanctions for Syria and all the other measures that imperialism has taken in general? Oh, no. So he participates and participates consciously. This is not the case with'supporting the strong'. Of course we'll have to deal with the strong ones. We're not saying you're going to make war, but you're going to say no, even politically, if you can't do anything else you can. So what happens in the end? All the peoples of the earth in this logic will say: 'We cannot stand up to the mighty, so we are subjected'? Because that's the dilemma. Submission to capitalist barbarism and management or resistance and overthrow. When this world described by Mrs Christodoulopoulos, there is also a name. It's called the dominance of imperialism worldwide. So what is the point in the various calls made when in practice government policy supports imperialist barbarism? The second issue is the European Union. It was said - and so it is - that the border was closed. Let us see, then, historically the theme of the European Union of your allies. When Dublin II came - I will not go in general - who voted against it in the European Parliament? Only the Communist Party of Greece. Everybody else with both hands. What does Dublin II say? "Where he enters the first country, that's where he stops. It goes no further." Isn't that right? Secondly, you're talking about closing borders and so on. But did you not say 'the hope is coming, Europe is changing'? And we said, of course, it's changing and getting worse! What attitude have you taken all these years on European Union issues? Is the Geneva Convention or not abolished by Dublin II? So I don't go to any more. Is the refugees abolished or not? What did you do about it? And the New Democracy here, who speaks and makes speeches, hasn't it all agreed? Today he does not agree with European directives and play a game? But what did you do?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u223	Mr. Palphie, finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u224	I'm done. The world isn't lost. Let a real voice be heard anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u225	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u226	When we made the mobilisation in Lesvos, from the workplace alone, the JRC was some others. Everyone else was in their homes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u227	When?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u228	Now after the fascist events.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u229	You were a hundred people, Mr. Paphie.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u230	I was there, so you can't say anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u231	And you were a hundred-dollar backup!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u232	So we're going on. So you are in line with the whole policy of the European Union, you are still making delusion about what the European Union is, and in this area, you are supporting all policies, you are signing all the decisions. Well, can't you put a veto on? So that's how much? A veto, to someone, to say 'Here we say no and defend our interests'. Where is the alliance of the South, to put all of them together veto in Dublin II and say 'no, they will not only come here, they will also go to you'. Let's talk about the deal. What did we propose from the outset? We said that, under the responsibility of the UN and other international organisations, Turkey directly should be given funds - not Turkey - to register and leave on board ships, etc., for those countries that want to go. Mr Balafas is moving his head.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u233	Your party secretary has changed line.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u234	So I'm going to go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u235	He said: 'with the prospect of leaving'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u236	So I'm going to go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u237	Your party secretary changed the line and you didn't get it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u238	Does that hurt?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u239	Please don't interrupt. Finish it, Mr. Paphie.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u240	Did you find me talking about time? That makes sense. So many people broke him.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u241	Come on, Mr. Paphie. Minister, nothing will be recorded.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u242	Then why didn't you say anything? When Germany asked for half a million - the industrialists asked for it - and took seven hundred thousand, the unprecedented gate, the educated ones, and then they downed the cliff, did you say anything? Did you report anything? You came out on a board to say we don't vote for it, don't we sign? Oh, no. That's where they say it's a law for here. We made concrete criticism of the bill. And whoever doesn't understand let him not understand. We are talking about geographical identification - you know what the results are, it is wrong - we say limiting rights. No one can seriously say in our criticism, in the bill, that it is not right. And some of the simulations I heard when it says: 'They're making you from here and there, you're doing well' are not just out of logic but at least ridiculous. As for money and advertising, the UN is giving it a piece of money and so on, the European Union says. Who's that? The European Union's industrialists give it to them? They are the peoples of Europe and the Greek people together. So stop advertising it. So, in the big question raised, what we will do in the face of this humanity that has been formed, we must all apologise first of all for what has been said in 1990, when the association of forces with the dissolution of the Soviet Union, etc., was overthrown, and when you welcomed the new world of peace and the advance of humanity, because the Cold War is stopping. And, secondly, answer the modern question, as is done at all the critical moments in history. Resistance or resistance and overthrow? What is more costing to the people? Submission. Resistance and twist cost, but it's for its own interests, and, unfortunately, you've all made the first choice.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u243	The Minister has the floor, Mr. Vitsats.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u244	The show always matters, but the rhetorical cowardice and experience of my friend Pafilis will not make me refer to his speech except for one point. He's a friend in the sense of human...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u245	I'm not mistaken.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u246	No, you don't have to get any misunderstandings. I don't get the wrong thing. Unfortunately, we all live in this world, with these difficulties, with these possibilities and with these efforts to overthrow the status quo. And no one can live with security that I am the real life, I am the reality and whoever doesn't understand the evil of his head. Anyone who goes with that logic, the only thing he will do is not be able to, but live in this world. Think about that. I would like to say that I fully agree with the resolution tabled by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group in relation to events in Gaza and the fact that innocent people are being killed. I would like to remind you that Jerusalem - because it is not yesterday, not yesterday - is a sacred city of three of the five great religions, and in this sense is the city that has condensed, over time, peaceful coexistence, so it must be done and so it must remain. If some have envied the activities of the Crusaders who have slaughtered Muslims or others have envied the activity of Saladin that has slaughtered Christians, then they should know that history will record them and reality also records them in its darkest pages. And I'm not just talking about yesterday. I'm also talking about the decision. At the same time I cannot and cannot justify the arguments on'self-defense'. What self-defense is it that people are killed in? But I forgot. What does Sartre call it? "The hell are the others." Isn't that what he says? And that's what we need to get away from. I want to tell you a few things, because I noticed a bump that happened here today. I don't know if you saw it if you noticed. This is where the world of democracy, parliamentarians and, on the other hand, our hell and hell we have within us - if I say so well - our Conservation. And if you want me to have a point of view, there is a division in whatever we do as political forces: whether we are the political forces that are afraid or who want to be afraid or want to shape in various ways - by force, with provocations etc. - feared human beings or we are the political forces that are not afraid, who see ahead, who say that there are values, that we have conflicts on them acute, that we can fight politically, but we can take steps. And the question is this: shall we approach the refugee issue also appallingly? "Go away, go elsewhere"? Are we going to approach it by strengthening the dreadful partners - let me tell you examples - to leave the islands, go to the village in question and to the village in which the inhabitants say 'no people come here to go' - or are we going to stay with the conquests of human culture? Are we going to strengthen the protection of human rights for all human rights and, at the same time, understand that we have a difficult reality to manage, or on the other hand, we will flee to easy solutions either on the basis of ideas or on the basis of our political or political interests? I saw something in today's debate. The discussion at committee meetings was a beneficial and constructive debate. Today, of course, it was highly taught to me about the way political life is going on on on the one hand, but on the other hand it has shown the indifference and embarrassment, if you like, to speak in particular. I would like you to allow me to say a few things, which you must bear in mind. I don't have a crisis of honesty. I am trying to tell the truth because firstly the truth saves and, secondly, the truth helps to decide on these things. The refugee crisis and has tried and tested Europe. Responsibility, solidarity, the principles and values of Enlightenment, the foundation, that is, a stone of Europe that gives cohesion to societies and states, are questioned not by refugee itself but by the lack of solidarity, by xenophobia, but also by a political way of dealing with a card to human values and rights. Let's be clean. That's what's happening right now. And sometimes I hear that the humanitarian issue gets the character of a terrorist threat. I hear that refugees and migration flows are translated by many at risk. I hear that they should be activated or I hear that they are national leaders of people who say what they say? No refugee in our country. And they told us today and the terrible fact that these were not in the ideas of the ancient Greeks. I would like to remind you - and I am sorry, Mr President, that I will take one, two more minutes - in 630 BC. About the Cylon, Athenian Olympiacos, he did a failed coup. He, of course, went to the Megarras - the leaders do this - but his people went to the Parthenon, not to the Parthenon that was later built, not to say that I don't know. That's where the rivals fooled them and killed them. Those were beans. Then the protector was the god. After World War II, humanity said: "Humanity itself is the protector." That is why I usually say that humanity with the Geneva Convention and the New York Protocol took steps forward. We must not lose that. In this sense, I would like to say a few things that I have said to the committees. We operate on the basis of some assumptions. The assumptions are the Geneva Treaty, as are the joint declaration by the European Union with Turkey not as a solution but as a starting point for a sustainable solution for the whole of Europe. Our position and what we are fighting for as the Greek Government is that legal routes must be established for asylum seekers and international protection, because these two are in trouble. The law is general. It's not just for those who come from Syria or Pakistan, etc. Secondly, we must hit the criminal practices of traffickers and thirdly, it is imperative to allocate weight and the common expression of European solidarity. These are our political positions and we will not stop telling them to the European Union and to all international fora and to the UN that this is clear. We will also make concrete proposals for a common European asylum mechanism with full respect for the conditions. I've said it before. What is this occasional issue - and we all hope not for a long time - which is called an agreement or a joint declaration of Europe - Turkey? Is that some kind of gospel? It is a tool that they use, the heart of which is that these people remain and improve their lives in Turkey, that the European Union offers the financial resources so that this can be done and that returns are a corrective mechanism. That's what we're saying. Clear things. So we must not be afraid, continue in this direction, see the difficulties and give solutions. The law will not solve the refugee and immigration issue by magic. The law wants to adapt to better conditions at this time. Fighting in our political direction, what do we want? Firstly, the islands should be decompressed without this population being replaced by new flows. I'll give you yesterday's example. They left Lesvos, if I'm not mistaken, a hundred and twelve vulnerable people came and a hundred and three came. If you don't understand that, you come and say what you want. I shall also refer to what has been said by the New Democracy. We have a legislative framework to which I shall refer a little later. But to try and solve the issue, you need administrative acts, i.e. solidarity and administration practices, and focus on looking at the whole chain today and solving knots, solving problems. So what do we want to do with this bill? With respect to the rights of applicants for international protection, we want to make a faster examination of asylum applications. We believe that this is not just the law. We need to increase the people who do the examination on the islands of this kind. I've already said we've done two things. We have renewed all contracts and will strengthen with two hundred people the First Reception Service and the Asylum Service. What further issue do we have to resolve? The question of interpretation and this is what we are focusing on right now. How is that going to be any faster? When we aim - let me say this with this expression - the appeal committees first and foremost on the islands. The mandate given by these twelve who are now, two to focus on Lesvos and one on each other. Once we have increased - and we have already started procedures on twenty committees - four will focus on Lesvos, two on Chios, two on Samos, one on Lero, one on Kos. You have another issue to deal with. For example, with ease one says that he accelerated procedures. But we're talking beyond everything else and about poor people. Let me give you an example again. In Lesvos, at the moment, there are about a thousand people, not to say more about whom the geographical restriction has been lifted. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] But people cannot take the boat and we must bring all the financial instruments from the High Authority and the International Organisation for Migration and the Greek State, namely the regular grant, so that we can make it easier for them to come and, secondly, to give decent conditions. Of course, if you're in the logic of what the headlines are writing and you see, on the one hand, that Thessaloniki was drowned, what am I supposed to do? Should I blame Kassandros for building Thessaloniki there or the previous governments for the way Thessaloniki was structured? And, of course, there was much more rain and great problems both in Lagadis and in Diavata, because that is where there is overpopulation. All the cities of Greece show their solidarity. But the big problem is not in all the cities of Greece. Here I would like all the political forces to help - and of course it is local government - and with pressure that the 'ESTIA' programme will involve more and more cities, so that there will be even more apartments for these apartments to go even more people and to improve conditions. We are still incorporating two hundred and seven permanent members of the Asylum Service. The first sloppy painting of the AAP is out. We are waiting for the final table and we have prepared the procedures, as we have prepared the regulatory provisions, which have to do with our work at the moment. That is, for example, to say the right to say - apologise for this expression of 'the right' - there is a very good proposal - Mr Varvitsiotis has just happened to make it first - a mechanism for compensation. I told the last committee. How do we build this mechanism? In each of the five islands there will be a typical one now, and by decision of the Minister, a coordinating body, which among the others - there is the Mytilini informality, we have an experience - will also have the possibility of recording, and at the same time we will have a fund so that this thing can be done as quickly as possible. Automatics? It won't be done automatically, so we won't be fooled by each other. I would like to tell you that during the last two months, seven hundred people have gone to apartments plus a thousand four hundred who were in hotels that ended the contracts, making us two thousand and creating some two thousand new seats in camps. That's not good enough. A man's future isn't staying in a camp, in a hospitality center. Finally, we have launched a large pilot accession programme, which is very important. Someone said this morning that you can't have a system that only has inputs. You must have some outlets. And the outputs can come only in the following ways: Firstly, returns based on the statement. Second, voluntary returns. Thirdly, procedures - how Mr. Muszalas called them - relocation, resettling...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u247	Relocation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u248	That's what I wanted to say. And fourthly, integration. So the accession programme has three basic levels. One level is Hellenism. The second level is the recording of the skills and capabilities of these people, and the third level is their ability to access the labour market. In the meantime, our demand is to set up a medium-term programme for those who have taken asylum, from five thousand places, so that they leave the dance of asylum seekers or applicants for international protection, have for six months where the head of a bed. And, of course, then, it also applies to the Geneva Convention and everywhere. That's what we're trying to do. I move on, to close with a number of issues relating, if you like, to things that have been said. So, Mr Varvitsiotis, my question is not the headlines. I don't function and no one functions on the basis of pressure, from what the journalist or the owner writes. My question is to try and plan and solve in a dynamic field, which depends very much on the flows. But when we talk about more drastic responses, I want to understand exactly what border shields mean. And why did the 2012 government get to the border with Evros thirty-five thousand wages? He had fifty thousand in 2011 and thirty-five thousand in 2010. I remind you - you were not a government, New Democracy - in 2010 FRONTEX was in the front line, if you remember well. I and as a secretary then of SYRIZA I remember them. But if we don't say something specific, then everyone can put their minds on what they want. And because I'm waiting for you to say it at some point, I don't want to put any other reason in your mouth. I said how we're gonna get out of here. And I come to a final point which I would like to say. I don't know how Mr. Voridis said what he said in relation to two things. One thing is that he does not know, but I find it unlikely that he does not know that Turkey has signed the Geneva Convention only with regard to Europeans. It can't be that he doesn't know. And secondly, as a competent lawyer, he can see - and I told him in committee - that when a Greek lies in the administration, faces the penalty of imprisonment or of the fine or something else. When a third country lies in command, it faces the sentence of expulsion, which is far greater punishment. What does he say he's not suffering? Is that the way it is? I don't know if deportation is nothing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u249	Minister, you must finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u250	I will finish in two minutes, Mr President. I want to tell you this about juveniles...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u251	As much as Mr. Pachilis spoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u252	I spoke for sixteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u253	Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u254	So I'm saying this. There have also been a number of issues. Mr Papatheodorou, the detention of minors as stated in the directive is only for excellent reasons, and otherwise the Act of Friday applies completely, as we are used to calling him. I'm with you to see how they count. Remember what I'm saying. Finally, I should like to say that we are changing the procedure concerning the Director of the Appeals Authority for a very simple reason. There's a law close to two and a half years and the Chief of Appeal is still the transition. So I say that for this part and for this process for a director who is doing a coordinating job - he is forbidden to intervene in the committee itself, and I imagine that we all agree on this - let us set a few deadlines that in forty-five days we will have a normal administrative director at the Board of Appeal. I'm closing and I'm not gonna talk anymore. But I would like to say this: we do not need to confuse him, in my opinion, at least human struggle against wars - we must all fight and we want to fight to stop wars - with the fact that wars exist and, of course, I understand that. You fight against war, but you keep in mind the fact that there is war. We are now legislating between two realities that there is war, poverty - I will tell you something else to close - and on the other hand there is an unconscious policy and many times closed borders. Some people after us in a few years for the refugee - migration if we have done well, in relation to wars I mean and so forth, I tell you that they will legislate between trying to stop climate change or demographic issues and possibly again with closed borders. So I say again that we in the government and in SYRIZA and the ANEL are not afraid of this. We know that we will have successes, difficulties and failures. But our commitment to both human values and human ideals makes us, one would say, on the one hand, proud of what we are doing and, on the other hand, bring hope to the world, which we will need not only for refugee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u255	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty students and students and two educational attendants from the 6th High School of Stavroupolis of Thessaloniki (Second Chamber). The House welcomes you guys. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Now Mrs. Helen Stamatakis will speak from SYRIZA. There are three other speakers here and the list is completed. Then we'll get through to the second grades and close one of the ministers. You have the floor, Mrs Stamaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u256	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the last 24 hours we have been hearing voices about the massacre that is taking place at the expense of an entire people in Gaza. Dozens of Palestinians dead, thousands injured. Without distinction young people, older people, children, women, people with disabilities are literally slaughtered. The international community is almost speechless. The European Union calls for restraint and dialogue on both sides. The Palestinians are slaughtered once again and no one can stop this massacre unless the mighty man who has the most weapons decides. We will once again monitor the victims to gather their debris and some to take the way of refugee. The Greek Parliament must condemn this attack and unite its voice with those seeking to stop the violent destruction of an entire people. Ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to vote in favour and adopt the resolution tabled by our Parliamentary representative and to isolate the fascist cries which have been heard today in our Parliament's Chamber. A war, ladies and gentlemen, has been in this neighborhood for seven years. Syria has been bleeding from this war for seven years. Authorityary regimes, even here in our neighborhood, give birth to great refugee flows. Wars, economic crisis and climate change force people to flee their countries, their homes and seek countries safe to continue their lives. Our country is, in spite of its crisis, considered a safe country, a first host country for the road to other safer countries. Ladies and gentlemen, all the arguments for the bill have been heard and the debate has been over and we will vote. After the Minister, I would not like to refer to any of the provisions of, and the changes and the positive effects of, this law. But I would like to say that, on the basis of this bill and in a number of provisions, the security of those who arrive in our country and asylum seekers is guaranteed, the family unity and the rights of the people we have as a country of first host, as a country of the European Union, as a country in the great map of the world, is guaranteed. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude with a very personal testimony. Some time ago a photograph was released online with a caption saying: "Refugees from Asia Minor arrive in Aleppo, Syria and welcome solidaritys with a plate of hot food and a glass of water". That picture shocked me. My father, a 15-year-old, arrived after an internal exile of six months and a course in the badly mountains of Turkey from Kerashunta to Aleppo. I was looking for the photo, because it was all young children, and I said: "One of these children could be my father." I grew up with those fairy tales with the refugee reception story in Aleppo, with food, with the plate of hot food offered to them and that food, until ninety years, could never forget it. I hope, therefore, that in a few years, I wish photographs corresponding to the reception of refugees at the port of Piraeus, where we welcomed a million refugees, where we were hosting tens of thousands of people and had for all a plate of hot food and a glass of water, to create the same feelings that created me that photograph, to create such feelings for people who have found their families, who have lived, raised and created their lives in peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u257	Mr. Ilias Cameroon has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u258	Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate is under the heavy veil of events in Gaza. I do not know if it makes sense, after the speech by the Minister and so many speakers, to say something more. You also judge whether these few things I have to say are far too much. Look, the fact is that three years we are now listening to the opposition, Mr New Democracy, accusing us of opening the doors to call on the immigrants and all that. Unfortunately, we have heard that now. The debate was generalised, despite the fact that the bill we are discussing provides for specific things. That was normal. However, I have noticed that this argument of the New Democracy colleagues is becoming more and more to the right. So much right that it is almost touching, not to say acknowledging some unacceptable views that are heard in Parliament. As other colleagues have said, we hope to stop listening to them in here at some point. Have they not been exemplified, have they not learned a lesson from the reality that has evolved since the last three years? They said the big flow of thousands was because we opened the border. They were asking to protect the border. So what did they mean? Piss off and drown people? Then, with the agreement of the European Union with Turkey, the flows have been too limited. We could say that almost zeroed at some point. Is that why it was SYRIZA's fault? We see recently that the flows are increasing. Is it SYRIZA's fault? So some others are the factors that determine the increase or reduction of flows. Although we know very well that NATO has come, and FRONTEX has come, you see that unfortunately or fortunately it does not depend on them and on border guards to increase or reduce flows. In any case, the bill we are discussing today certainly finds us in agreement with the islands, because we hope it will help, even though, as the Minister said, you do not solve the problem. But it is certainly a step forward, and we think it will help to relieve the islands, make asylum procedures quicker. But let's be careful. I do not know whether we have retained what the Minister said about how we have to deal with the problem as a whole rather than with fragments and about trying to get the refugees or immigrants to the court of each other. I wanted to stay on a second topic and get this over with. He didn't come in and it's normal. It's been getting through us islanders for a long time, and the three years I can tell where we've been in the government. He's been very intense lately. It is the subject of reduced VAT rates. On 1 July, the last five islands to which it is still applicable are those with refugees and immigrants. We have seen this and strongly demand this over the last period. I do not like to see this problem linked to the abolition of reduced rates with the refugee problem either. It is not right, because reduced rates of VAT are a measure of islandity, of island policy, and it should not have to do with immigration. However, in view of the persistence of the other over three years and in order to abolish the reduced rates of VAT, we must use whatever arguments we have to make it possible to maintain them even here in this period and in these five islands. So I would say that even if the chances are few, even if they are at the very last hour, as happened with the Prime Minister who took initiatives last time and managed to keep the reduced rates of VAT in these five islands for six months, we should try the same now. We have arguments. Flows have increased. The arguments put forward at the time when we were discussing this were that, as long as the immigration problem lasts, these islands should not increase VAT, even though as I said, I do not feel that. So we have to insist on that. We should not confuse the reduced rates of VAT with the equivalent that will start in about two months from the beginning of July. Because both are island policy measures regardless of each other. They both need it. And if you want not just this. We need a lot more. We need measures which will make up an island policy which will solve the problems of islands. It's not just the isolation problem. They are also the problems of education and health. The issue is generally a development policy, which will exploit the advantages of the islands and the specificities they have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u259	Mr. Dimitrios Gatis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u260	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, one cannot but unite one's voice and indignation and anger with the indignation and anger of all the Greek people but also the global community against Israel's murderous attack on civilians, reminiscent of the times “Goliath” and “David”, but forgetting that at some point the real “David” can finally win the aggressive “Goliath”. Ladies and gentlemen, at least I dominate a heavy melancholy. I am speaking from this Step on off-legislative matters only when I really have something important to say and if the issue is too strong and one needs to take a position. I would therefore expect on this sensitive humanitarian issue, to hear contributions to the resolution of the problems and to the formation of those peace conditions that many with “crocosiles” tears claim to be defended. On the contrary, there has been a negative and a levelling-up of reality and logic and a selective sensitivity to these issues. With regard to the bill, we inhabitants of the eastern Aegean and the Dodecanese, who have experienced the most severe refugee crisis in recent years, we first know what refugee means to their own victims, first of all, were proud of the way the communities of our islands welcomed the refugees in the first difficult months, reminding all of Europe that hospitality - not by accident - is a word of Greek origin. We who are still concerned when extreme xenophobic voices, taking advantage of the problems that have actually been created in local societies by the unprecedented volume of population movement towards Europe, go to blackmail this image of the islands and our country. All of us living on the islands, which are the gateways to Europe, welcome the present bill as an important step towards the protection of refugees and asylum seekers. I note some important points, which I consider to be proof of this: In Article 6 and elsewhere in the bill, as in Article 20, a number of important measures are adopted to protect unaccompanied minors. Is that enough? Oh, no. Article 9 sets out important issues relating to detention conditions, such as the very important separation of asylum seekers by criminals and the possibility of communicating with their relatives. Is that enough? Oh, no. Reservations that still work as a place of concentration - in Rhodes, for example, where there is no hosting centre - do not seek honor for our island, Minister. He needs an intervention, after all. We need to find a way to ensure that these detention conditions in the detention centres, which are done as a matter of urgency, are improved, made human. The provision of the Basic Rights and Education Act is also important, since it expressly refers to the bill that medical examinations are carried out exclusively in the interests of asylum seekers themselves and refugees, with respect for medical confidentiality. The integration of minors and the access of adults to public education shall be guaranteed within three months of the completion of the identification process. Ladies and gentlemen, although what I have just said is important decisions that have a positive impact on the lives of refugees and are in line with the functions of a modern rule of law, they cannot, however, be a definitive solution to such a complex pan-European and global problem. I will concentrate on three issues on this. Firstly, geographical restriction remains in force, but with the aim, as has been stated, to facilitate asylum procedures and strengthen committees. A government's ultimate objective is still the better distribution of refugees in different geographical areas and the decongestion of island regions, both in the interests of refugees themselves and in the interests of the residents of the host islands. The islands of the southern Aegean, the Dodecanese in particular, and of course Lesvos, Samos and Chios, still find the opportunity to fish in blush waters to exploit the discontent of the inhabitants. That is why asylum procedures must be speeded up, at least as the Minister said. Therefore, the measures taken by the Government for islands, such as transport equivalent recently, must be made clear that they are measures which contribute to the development of the islands, with a view to and with a view to and with a view to and wrong to perceive them as a gift to our islands, as an ad valorem price for the permanent presence of refugees there. For all these reasons, I would like to conclude by closing that no measure and no legislation as well as it is well designed will ever be sufficient if it is not accompanied by a substantial change in European policy that recognises the refugee issue as an extremely European problem, which concerns the whole of Europe, and at some point the principle of proportionality in the distribution of refugees arriving on our continent. It is necessary for European solidarity to function at last. That is why it is important for our country to take the lead in taking initiatives in cooperation with the governments of the other European countries that are particularly faced with this problem. It will be a battle - and so it must be demonstrated - not only for the fairs of the host countries, but above all for the defence of the common European values which are so tested in our day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u261	The last speaker from the list of MPs, Mr. Andreas Rizzoulis, from SYRIZA, has the floor. Next, we will enter the process of the seconds of the rapporteurs and the special speakers. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u262	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I will be brief and concise, because I think most of them have been said. I'll stand in two or three parts. Speaking of the bill - of course, other speakers have said it here - I would like to point out that this regulates the speed of the reception procedures. The issues of ensuring the rights of people who come to the country, particularly vulnerable groups during their stay, are regulated. First question to the rapporteur for the Officerial Representation: He said at some point that we are not dealing with the problem in the face - I say exactly the words you have used - with increased flows, with increased storage, with returns, and that we do not have, above all, a firm response to the issue. The question is: When at sea is a boat overloaded with women's children, men and all others, or even more when this boat has gone backwards, I would like to know what is the firm approach to this issue. I would like to say a few words about Patras, because I am one of those who the rapporteur said that we do not want a broom business in the Achaian capital. That's what happened. First of all, I should like to clarify something, which I have said several times since the beginning of this process, the broom business. The very phrase 'company - broom' has nothing to do with our own vocabulary. The broom presupposes garbage. We never treat people like that. Obviously, no business will ever call it a broom. What I would like to stress, and what matters is that in her announcement today, the lieutenant of the police who was there in the migration process of migrants said - and you saw it, because the cameras were there - that the whole process was done with respect for human personality. Since Easter, a police process began to carry - as a job was done at the same time - immigrants to go where they belonged. That worked. The ministry, the police, humanitarian organizations, were entering the illegal immigrants, they were documented, spoken and explained why they cannot be in this terrible, inhumane, informal camp that was created there in the hope of the port across and the fleeing of these people out. In fact, it had results and a 40% of the people were transported smoothly and beautifully. Of course, with the increase in flows, we have had a return so there are problems, especially with the younger, perhaps, migrants who came there. I'll say something about the residents. All this time, the associations of the region gathered around this informal camp, because sometimes there are or can be issues created: 'What is going on there in Patras?' 'Who are they gathering?' ‘What are they shouting for?’. And because Patras - without wanting to claim the primacy on this issue - and Achaea has a deep democratic tradition from the beginning of the modern Greek state, in honor of these people there, beyond some of the voices that may have been heard that have to do with fear of the presence there of an informal situation, the first thing they said is that first of all it does not honor these people to be there. Let's put that on. And not only that, I say, but we have repeatedly pointed out that it was a difficult and dangerous situation, not only for immigrants, but also for the workers in the port and for the residents in the region and for the people working in the police, in the port, etc. What I would like to say to Mr Papatheodorou, because obviously there is something there to say, is that, first of all, we are not making any bid for who was with the world. We were many there with the world, but sometimes we are not entitled to the result that "we had said it." The whole process before the debate, the intervention there in various ways and the humanitarian organizations, etc., has today led to this mild and conditional transfer. Because it's not a job to play the script from the start, we don't know what would happen if it started at some point. Anyway, I don't want to go on with this. One final question to the rapporteur, Commissioner, and that is what I shall finish. I am very surprised that it gave an alibi, not to say that it was consistent with the perceptions of these Eastern European countries, who with extreme right, xenophobic and racist views of governments attack either the immigrants or the European Union's own policy in which they are punished by the European Union and punished by fines. And he tried to give an alibi that these people there rightly have this function they have within the European Union. With the opportunity of ending, I would obviously like, in addition to the resolution of our parliamentary group, to condemn the murderous action of the Israeli army. We do not say 'the Israelites', because in Israel, not everyone is fascists, nor are they all people who want everyone to die. We have demonstrations in Israel saying: 'We can live together'. That's why we're talking about the army, but the fans sometimes may not do it willingly. So condemning the murderous attack on people who are demonstrating and taking murderous attacks, not only yesterday and the other day, but decades now. The only crime they have committed is that they seek and want to have the right to self-determination. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u263	Thank you, Mr Rizzoulis, for completing the list of speakers. Just like I said. We start the cycle of the seconds with Mr. Palley first. You have the floor for four minutes, Mr. Palley.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u264	Ladies and gentlemen, I have learned to see people in the eyes and that is another reason why I am rapporteur in this bill because I have learned to see my fellow citizens in the eyes. I know very well that this bill will not solve the refugee question. But it enables us to do things better with a lot of work. So, following the debate today in contrast to the debate held in the committees, I have to comment on the following. First of all, in relation to the officers of the Vice-Population Officer and first of all Mr Varvitsiotis, I will say that he started as a 'terrorist' news reporter. Other Members have taken unbarriedly, and I am sure my colleague from DISY who has mixed everything up, a little rights, a little deterrence, a little bit of everything. He's a little confused. The sanas bochas followed by the poachers and sometimes speculators of the refugee, because cantins in Moria opened up, and their neonazis of the Golden Dawn with an epitome of hate rhetoric and personal attacks against a colleague, Mrs Christodoulopoulos. However, what he wants very courageous is from the former rulers by 2015 and especially New Democracy. I'm going to make a small regression, ladies and gentlemen. I'll go before 2009. In 2009 we closed the Pagan in Lesvos, which was the detention area for those who held more than eighteen months. And I'm saying it on account of the reproach we had on the drainage in Moria. Mr Varvitsiotis, who made the reproach - I am speaking to you - I will tell you, to go to 2009 and before 2009, that members of your party, your administration, at that time, were exploiting and speculating. By 2009, then, more than eighteen months inmates were housed in Moria in three times the conditions laid down in the Pagan, because the feeding at that time - listen, ladies and gentlemen - was 28 euros a day. And it was from the prefecture of prefecture direct feeding to members of the New Democracy. Add the rest of the expenses. So they kept closed people with ten minutes of preplanation a day and come and reproach us for Moria, who should be closed because they dreamed. To be closed, not to talk and speculate. As regards the drainage of Moria, when your government announced the creation of the Moria camp, I was on the municipal council, Mr. Varvitsiotis. When the issue was raised about linking the JHA, the Municipal Wastewater Sewage Corporation, the president was Morian at the time. Do you know where he's been contagious all this time? Mr Athanasios is overtaken by this person who has not spoken to you at the time to link Moria and we have so far a problem. Let's just say five more truths, then. I'm gonna go down a little bit. We heard Mr. Dendia, who was very relaxed, comfortable, smiling as a common populist. He talked about realism, that we're really not guarding the border. Now we heard about NATO, we heard about everything. FRONTEX has always been on the islands, but I trust the Greek authorities. I prefer the Greek authorities to do what they know to do, what Thodoris said, to save souls, to change the soul of these people with what you put them in and did. I'll go down. What did they do with the unaccompanied? The Minister said so. What did we receive? Nothing in infrastructure. You knew he was coming. Today, at last, you admitted that since 2013, we have had a matter and you have seen it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Infrastructures, then, sir. This is all your shame. I'll go down. The attitude of the countries to which the Presidents of the People's Party are leading is unacceptable in each country. They're your people. Hypocrisy arrives and has more to do here. We heard and saw a study about the Polytechnic and improve your mistakes. Unexistent does not improve. We've been trying to set up what you left in 2015. The nonexistent you left. I'm going to hang up with Mr. Athanasios and Mr. Voridis with two comments. He said: 'Others humanity and more the issue of the salvation and destruction of our islands'. He also revealed to us who makes the dispersal of false news that another center is being set up in Lesvos. He's the same person who does it after all. He said it today in the House. He's the first official I heard him say it. So I will say that, first of all, saying to the House that together with the priest - the army built the "Aglia" - is also sacrificial and insulting the dead, because this was also said in here. The whole place on that island knows who we are. In addition, with the whole attitude of my fellow Member from Lesvos, all I can say is what good advertising does in our country. Aren't you a little ashamed to be sludge about the islands that have their issues, where people have been decently? And you keep throwing mud for the damaged place? Aren't you ashamed? You should be ashamed of yourself. I close by saying something about Mr. Voridis, who said 'big picture','say lies and bring costs to the country', etc. My question is, for those who lie in Parliament, doing insurmountable damage to a place like Lesvos with the lies they make and the image they present. Who will compensate the inhabitants for the damage they are doing to them and where will the common liars of the Greek Parliament be apologized - because you are unfortunately one of them - on such a serious issue?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u265	Mr. Pallie, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u266	I close, Mr President, by saying that we are of course not the same. I also say this to the Communist Party of Greece. The only comment I have to make on the Communist Party of Greece is on its involvement with refugees in Lesvos over the years, which has been epidermal. I'm not going to make any more comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u267	The rapporteur, Mr Varvitsiotis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u268	Ladies and gentlemen, I will not return to you the remarks of hypocrisy between the statements made by your ministers here and the way in which the Foreign Ministry is expressing its views on the issue of the massacre in Gaza yesterday, because it is a dissatisfaction. Another SYRIZA Government in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, another SYRIZA Parliamentary Group within Parliament. What we say in Greece is for Greece, but outside we join all the lines of the European Union, which you come here and condemn. Hypocrites to all your majesty. Hypocrites! If you had the courage, Mr. Kotzias would go out and convict. And let Mr Kammenos also come, who has been advertising his excellent relations with Israel lately. You do not really understand what the European Union is in relation to immigration policy. You have all unleashed mysteries on European asylum policy. Since when has the European Union been on asylum? Have we allocated asylum issues to the European Union as countries? Oh, no. It has been kept by each country within its legal framework and each country controls whom it wants and whom it does not want to grant asylum by internal procedures. So, who are these cords you take off and in what direction? Clearly we need to promote a European policy, but this European policy will be built when we make a European policy at all and not just a card. This means that we will also make a European policy on border guarding and we will not do a card because I have not heard any talk, no SYRIZA speaker say something about border guarding policy. None. In fact, we fully realised that the current leadership of the Ministry of Migration Policy is identical to the previous policy that says one thing: "Those who knock our door will enter and those who enter will remain." That's the philosophy. And if you say it's human this attitude, and because a lot of suggestions you've left about what happened in the past and what didn't...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u269	No implying. Data, I told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u270	...I will tell you the worst account, which is an account of shame, because every human life that has been lost at sea is a human life that burdens all of us's consciousness. In 2014, however, fifty - nine lives were lost and in 2015, a thousand sixty - three in the Aegean Sea. This is the result of a political unguarded borders, of mourning more victims. Can I tell you one more thing? I have heard the Minister say that 'for us, there are international treaties in our policy'. In fact, you said that in the koruna of your policy, it is also the joint declaration of Europe - Turkey and how it will work. That's what's not working, Minister. That is why we criticise you because it does not work. Because the joint declaration requires that they be returned to Turkey, and this is the work you have undertaken and which you do not implement, with a thousand six hundred returns against fifty thousand arrivals. In fact, we have large numbers of countries that are not entitled to asylum. The rate of acceptance of asylum applications from Pakistan is 2.5%. From Bangladesh, it's 3.5%.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u271	Mr. Varvichiotis, how do you know that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u272	Mr. Pallie, you've done it. You know, your style often doesn't honor the level of conversation, because you have a mood to keep making separating lines and not to want to understand the other view. Unfortunately, there is another view and if you fail to understand it, the Greek people will understand it and send you to the headquarters of Anti-Population and your home in the next elections. Don't worry about it. The international treaties and the joint declaration impose refunds, separate the illegal immigrants and the refugee, and that is a job and an obligation of the government towards the international legal order, against the European Union, against the Geneva Convention, against the joint declaration of Europe - Turkey, which we do not respect, and which is why we are indebted to it. That is why we are finally calling for the application of international treaties to be complete and not a card. I come to the last point, Mr President, on the amendments tabled. I sincerely have never seen the government change the way in which the children of the general and professional high school will be considered this summer with a MEP's amendment, which comes without anyone coming from the Ministry of Education here explaining why this amendment should be accepted when it changes a law that was adopted just now in Parliament. Can't the head of the Ministry of Education have the courage to come and place himself? So many undersecretaries are over there. No one has had the time to come to Parliament to tell us why it accepts a Member's amendment on how to examine it? That's a leg-law. Legislation on the foot is also the provision made by Mrs Conordou, which changes her own law, which she brought last year, imposed special charges and this year she is going to multiply them, but does not make us an account she has worked and where her law did not work. Finally, I am pleased that some of the SYRIZA colleagues had the courage to support the New Democracy Members' amendment to reduce VAT rates. I'm glad some people did it. Why others, islanders, have told us that it is unreasonable, crazy, dangerous to link VAT to the islands with the refugee - immigration - which your own government did with the letter it sent to the European Commission - with the amendment tabled by Mr Tsakalotos, with the statements made by Mr Tsipras when he gave the previous extension. We are using exactly the same argument that you have adopted in order to say that you should extend over. I wish you accepted it, Minister. You would send out a message to the islanders that they are not abandoned, that we look at them without solving them - because you do not solve them - their main problem, but we do not ignore them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u273	The reason for this is the special speaker of the Democratic Association, Mr Papatheodorou.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u274	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I think we can agree on something that was part of your position at the end. It was a distinction between the democratic opposition, where there we can disagree and start from the same principles or from the same values of legal European culture and the Golden Dawn as the irreversible cries of nazi content. When you say that, Minister, you cannot continue by saying that the opposition had a discomfort with the legislation, against the draft law. What embarrassment? Is the dispute between the opposition - and I am speaking about my party - on the specific policy that you have implemented in recent years, is it awkward, is it called a dreadful approach to the problem? Not at all. We disagree politically, practically, on your policy. For three years you have been conducting a policy that has brought the situation of refugee management to the point where we are seeing it today. In the first period, that is, Mr Mouszalas gave shape to chaos, and now we are managing chaos, which is constantly growing, because the flows are growing. We must not, however, reverse the terms and we must come to an agreement. If you want to invoke democratic opposition, we should agree on something clearly. You're confused, Mr. Palley, and I'll tell you where you're confusing. You had no consensus from the democratic opposition to reach the declaration of the European Union - Turkey. You had no consensus when Mr. Tsipras went to see Mr. Erdogan. It was a big mistake. You had no consensus from the Opposition to exercise the policy of 2015. You had a reaction from the Opposition. We told you you were wrong. And since something was heard about the bad Europe, which is good when it finances, but is it bad when it tries to create a policy, I will tell you this: did bad Europe give up on you at the time for your 2015 policy? Did we then tell you that 'you know, obviously, and there is no European policy, but is there a Community policy, that is, there is a policy which respects all the parties and all the governments of Europe in European terms'? She didn't respect you. You did not respect her when you said that "I will blackmail I". That's what you were saying, until you had to empty Edoume. That was your policy. You have a problem when we tell you that today...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u275	Who says that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u276	Your ministers said it then. Your ministers told Idomen that the government wants to show Europeans that we have a problem in Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u277	Where did you hear the statements?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u278	Please, Mr. Pallie, don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u279	These were your statements. That was the SYRIZA government's policy. Do you know what I've been so bothered about? It is insulting when you say on the one hand that we are on the democratic side of dialogue and on the other Mrs Christodoulopoulos talks about the vulgarity of counter-population. What vulgarity? Is it vulgarity that it speaks of legality in Moria? Is there legality in Moria? Is there legality in Scaramaga? Was there in Idomeni? That is your policy, though. That's why you're confused, Mr. Palley. You are mistaken about the fact that all of what I'm saying is your policy. Now you're coming with fire interventions to create a picture of respect for legality. Today the fact that we have the islands in overflow and the country is your own policy. No one else has exercised this policy. Why have you not wondered that we have flows from Evros to Greece, but not to Bulgaria? We have traffickers to the islands. We must respect your interpretation of the agreement you have made with Germany and not what the joint declaration says. So that is what we are telling you that for us it is red lines of opposition to your policy, which has shown that it is finally reaching its limit. Unfortunately, the failure of your own policy has tragic consequences for the islands and we will soon see what will happen, because you have never considered or planned three years later, how hosting centres, hosting structures, camps. You said "I don't want to have camps, I don't want to regulate them", but three years later we have a ministry that doesn't work, because you didn't make it work, because you didn't fix the structures. Host structures have no regulation. We are telling you this: How long will this government see the problems coming through and running firearms? However, the tone has to do with provocative statements, with the statement by Mrs Christodoulopoulos, which was provocative. No vulgarity. You know what? The emotional populism of SYRIZA is good to cover the inertia of your policy. It does not cover problems, it does not give answers to the Greek people. Stop it and start organising your policy, as has been the case so far, other European countries have done so against our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u280	The reason for this is the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Manolakos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u281	You claim double caging does not get worse. But even in relation to the directive it is getting worse, since the geographical restriction is also made by a decision of the Director of the Asylum Service. Why is this article concentrating most of the fires? Are they crazy? Of course not. They see and experience what geographical restriction means and what impact it has. You say that there is no solidarity from the European Union. Why? Is this the first time? There is solidarity only for the needs of business groups. And we ask: why do they have the right of Member States to violate international conditions, not accept any, or mosquito, to close borders? Did you protest? Only within the House, not in the European institutions. You implement their inhumane policy to resuscitate the refugee wave and prevent, encapsulate refugees to go where they feel safe. This is the policy advocated by the European Union-Turkey agreement. You worship her, and then you say that we are making unrealistic criticisms. Who can outlaw provocatively? Those who close the border or are we saying that they must be open to refugees to go where they want? You are brutally stumbling at the Geneva Treaty and you are swinging our fingers because we are voting against your inhuman policies. Why don’t you dare apply the right thing? For you are serving, you are pilgrimizing the European Union of monopolies and war. You referred to the culture of xenophobia and racism and to the action of the fascists - Nazis that we condemn in practice. But, let us think: What are they using and being robbed? The problems your immigration policy creates in order to pass their racist hatred. Otherwise, the majority rapporteur also blames us for dealing with refugees. There are no other Members of Parliament as much as the Communist Party of Greece who go so often to the camps and carry the problems to the House, push you for them and show them. We are not the ones who are saying other things, but you are the ones, because in this area too, immigration, you are being mocked. But you're saying you're voting. We shall vote on the tears of refugees, but we shall vote on the inclusion of refugees and the violation of their rights and on what comes from the Geneva Convention and protocols. As far as the amendments are concerned, I would like to say that they are three amendments which have nothing to do with your Ministry and the bill. We will say'residents' on all three, but I would like to say something more about the Ministry of Culture. The demand of authors and relatives was all new storage and the means to be reproduced to be subject to the 6% category. It would be a fair reward, without burdening citizens on the benefit they would have from using for private reproduction of all categories of works of intellectual and artistic creation. The government for many of them created the 2% category by driving agencies, namely non-profit-making collective self-management, failure to operate or disappear. We are asking for the abolition of this 2% category. Secondly, while the transfer from 4% to 6% is in a positive direction, the barrier to 4c is unjustified and institutionalises capacity-based barriers rather than other reasonable criteria. Thirdly, book publishers and literature publishers remain entitled to fair remuneration, and at a rate of 4% remain entitled to 50% of the fees for authors. I should like to say that both the European Court of Justice and international organisations, such as UNESCO, do not accept that publishers have intellectual or related rights. This is a Greek originality. So we say'represent' to both of them. As far as the legislative improvements presented today are concerned, they are improvers, but they do not change the substance. I should like to refer to the most characteristic that we have proposed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u282	Complete, Mrs Manolakou.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u283	I'll be short. You add seeking the transport and residence of pregnant women during pregnancy and for three months after giving birth to appropriate housing structures. It is a wish, because we do not agree with any detention of pregnant women who have naturally not committed any offences or residence permits for exceptional reasons. You have deleted the phrase ‘one-off’. Improving, we say, but once the rest of the wording that says 'and may be renewed for one of the other reasons of this Code' does not change the substance, since it cannot be renewed for the same reason. For example, one reason is the child who is still underage. It also extends once again until 31/12-2018 and essentially simulates the unacceptable fast track procedures for examining asylum applications and appeals, that is, for those who came after the agreement between the European Union and Turkey, which we had denounced from the outset. This procedure shall apply in the case of a large number of arrivals and applications for asylum at borders, ports and airports. In other words, it concerns tens of thousands of refugees who are now trapped in the country and the vast majority of refugees and immigrants who will be passing to Greece in the next period.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u284	Ms. Manolaku, please close.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u285	It is unacceptable - and I conclude, Mr President - that the extension, the permanentisation of the unacceptable and illegal fast-track procedure which provides for examination of asylum claims and appeals within a few days, which our party had denounced from the outset. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u286	Mr Dannelis, a special speaker from the river.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u287	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately Europe and Greece have seemed totally uncomfortable to deal with such a big problem, and unfortunately we are still unable to reach agreement and have a common approach. It is certain that institutional instruments or legal instruments are not sufficient to deal with and manage this problem, Minister. As it is certain, too, that the problem will continue to concern us. Unfortunately, it came to remain for unpredictable time and with unforeseen escalation, of course. We can, however, and we must do so. We can reduce, deal with bureaucratic obstacles, and we can also deal with the administrative deficiencies that appear and further exacerbate the problem. We must also not forget, Minister, that time is testing the unfortunate refugees themselves, as is fatally testing local communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u288	Thank you to Mr Dannelly and to the economy of time. Mr President, one of the two to close. Who wants it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u289	I, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u290	Come on, Mr. Vitsa. Just, please, be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u291	I will only be very brief on what has been said lately. I insist, Mr Varvitsiotis, that you say in particular, as a New Democracy, what you mean by 'the guarding of borders'. You have explained it here that our policy is: 'Those who knock the door will enter.' You should know - because you're experienced in government, so let me say it - that nobody knocks at the door. What you're doing is examining the application for international protection. You've lived through the difficulties - as a government, I mean. We are now experiencing the difficulties. You had a sense of repression and we have a logic in line with international conditions. What can we do? Secondly, the joint declaration does not work. I beg your pardon, but I imagine you know the joint statement on this subject too. So I read it to you in point 1: "All the new irregular immigrants who arrive on the Greek islands through Turkey from 20 March 2016 onwards will be returned to it". I'm opening parentheses. On March 18, 2016, because I took the government order to evacuate the islands, it was over twenty-five thousand on the islands and most in Lesvos. The joint declaration continues: 'This will be in full agreement with Union and international law, so with the exclusion of all kinds of group deportations.' It's written in the joint statement. He continues: “All immigrants will be protected in accordance with relevant international standards and in compliance with the principle of non-refoulement.” Do you want me to keep reading? Article 1. It says below that asylum applications will also be properly recorded by the Greek authorities individually under the directive in cooperation with the High Commissioner. What's our main problem right now? I would also like to tell you about the returns to the joint declaration. Because my logic is an attempt to reach agreement with the European Union and Turkey. What do I say to my Turkish counterpart? 'Come on, we can solve two issues'. He has not said 'yes'. One issue is this. "Give me the possibility, in a restrictive way, of transporting people to mainland Greece, to examine here and those who are to be returned, returned." And secondly, "When I send you a list, don't answer me after a week." Thirdly, can I - you are experienced - an amendment accepted with immediate financial interest, without having discussed it with the relevant Minister and without having a financial impact report from the General Accounting Office of the State? Is that possible? Is there anyone around here who would not otherwise want the transport equivalent to reduced VAT? Mr Papatheodorou, I am now addressing you. I don't understand. So, because of democratic cohesion, opposition will be entitled to criticise and the government will not be entitled to answer? Apparently not. Also, what's that? I've never heard of it. "We'll blackmail through Iwarded."
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u292	You said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u293	Please don't interrupt, Mr. Papatheodorou.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u294	Did I say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u295	SYRIZA used to say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u296	Do you know where I'd agree with you? The strange power of FRONTEX to be, in relation to Skopje, from this side. Now, if it will be solved, and we hope that it will be resolved, the issue of Macedonia, our relations, what will happen? I mean, it really seems a little strange to me. FRONTEX is on the Austrian side and is on our side. That is the strange thing that we can work together, I think, at European level too. As far as the regulation of host centres is concerned, I also told the committee that there are two additional things that we need to do in relation to hosting centres. One is to pass the hospitality centers - because I said it is not our future hospitality centers, but we are talking about now - at the Ministry of Migration Policy. And the second is in a very short time - and you will see it in the accession procedures that we will be discussing in Parliament - each having a specific regulation. I must tell you that an operational coordination of nine ministries has been set up, which will discuss exactly these things. Mrs Manolakou, we are not going to agree on a real basis. What are you telling us on the real level? The other level, okay, is general etc. You tell us that the refugee comes, that the asylum seeker should come to the islands, go to mainland Greece, give him travel documents, go where he wants to go. I'll go on a little bit later. What happens next? It will return to Greece, based on Dublin II, Dublin III and IV.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u297	No one wants to stay, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u298	Minister, there is no dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u299	I'll say that now. I'm hanging up with this. Life flows with the protection of human rights, but not with what everyone wants. Because otherwise, based on what everyone wants, everyone would go to Patras, get on a ship, go to Italy, pass through Italy, go to Germany. Is that what you're saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u300	Of course not.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u301	That's not what you're saying. What I want to tell you is that in fact, what can be done to decompress the islands, but to move on as well, is to fight internationally and manage internally. How else can I say it? That is what I want to stress. I think we can take steps. I want to tell you two things in a minute. Firstly, an amendment will be tabled to the first bill, the one that has reached your hands since last Wednesday. This amendment did not come today for the simple reason that they did not have time to give us the report from the General Accounting Office of the State. That's the one. In other words, we are waiting for this amendment next week. The second question is that the second legislative initiative, in addition to the regulations that the Ministry of Migration Policy will take, hopefully at the beginning of the autumn, will have to do with the structure of the Ministry and the necessary adjustments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u302	The debate on the principle of the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Migration Policy is hereby terminated: ‘Adaptation of Greek legislation to the provisions of Directive 2013/33/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on the requirements for the reception of applicants for international protection (recast, L180/96/29.6.2013) and other provisions - Amendment of Law 4251/2014 (A 1980) adapting Greek legislation to Directive 2014/66/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals under intra-corporate transfer - Amendment of asylum procedures and other provisions’. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would very much ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u303	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u304	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u305	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Migration Policy: ‘Adaptation of Greek legislation to the provisions of Directive 2013/33/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on the requirements for the reception of applicants for international protection (recast, L180/96/29.6.2013) and other provisions - Amendment of Law 4251/2014 (A 1980) adapting Greek legislation to Directive 2014/66/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals in the framework of intra-corporate transfer – Amendment of asylum procedures and other provisions’ was accepted by a simple majority in principle of Articles and of the whole and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u306	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u307	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-15-S1-commons.u308	With the consent of the House at noon 21.24' the meeting is closed for tomorrow, Wednesday, 16 May 2018 at 9.30', on the subject of Parliament's work, legislative work: (a) only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: "Following the Political Dialogue and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Cuba, of the other part", (b) sole debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law: "Following the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Albania on speeding up the process of accession of the Republic of Albania to the European Union", and then a special plenary session on the Memorandum for the Memorial of the Greek Mentality of the Sea.
