ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the agenda for legislative work, I have three communications to this House: Firstly, the Standing Committee on Production and Trade submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development: 'Reforming the law of public limited companies'. Secondly, the Minister of Finance, the Vice-President of the Government - Minister for Economy and Development, the Ministers for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Home Affairs, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Health, Administrative Reconstruction, Culture and Sport, Environment and Energy, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime and Island Policy, Tourism, Deputy Ministers of Finance, Economy and Development, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Health, Health, Environmental and Energy, and the Deputy Ministers of Finance, Economic and Social Policy, Labour, Social Security and Social Policy have submitted 8-20 draft Statement on the completion of the Agreement on Economic and Monetary Union. This draft law has been classified by the Government as urgent and has already been referred to the Co-legislative Standing Committees. I shall also make a third communication, which was almost unanimously accepted, without prejudice to the Communist Party of Greece, at the Conference of Presidents. Just to go ahead, I must have the approval of the House. I have the honour to announce to the House that, following him under Protocol No 899/21-2-2018, the President of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Fotini Gennamata, proposed, pursuant to Rule 44(1) of the Rules of Procedure, the establishment of a intergroup parliamentary committee to draw up a long-term national drug strategy. The Conference of Presidents at its meeting on 8-6-2018 decided, without prejudice to the JRC, to set up a intergroup parliamentary committee. With regard to the procedure laid down in Rule 44(1) and (2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Conference decided unanimously to propose to Parliament that the proposal be accepted without debate. For the sake of effective functioning of the committee, it is proposed that it should be set up to include twenty-three members, in proportion to the power of the parties and the independent MPs. The Committee's report shall be submitted by the end of the current period. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u2	So tomorrow, the setting-up of this intergroup committee after Mrs Gennamas' proposal could go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development: "Reform of the law of public limited companies". The above draft law was characterised by the Government as an urgency and the responsible Standing Committee on Production and Trade accepted by a majority its designation as an urgency, in accordance with Rule 110 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 8 June 2018 to discuss the draft law at a meeting - and, if necessary, two meetings - on the principle, the articles, amendments and the whole. Before I ask for your approval, I have the following proposal: I have measured the time of the rapporteurs, specialist speakers, parliamentary representatives and the time of the Minister. We will see how many colleagues will be registered. Two colleagues spoke to the committee. If they write around the six colleagues, I think we can go around 23:00, violence 23:30, finish the bill today. Therefore, in conjunction with the fact that you also have a committee on the multi-legislative bill tomorrow, do not have to deal with this bill, for which we have had a second meeting. It is up to us to begin, but we will see it on the way, depending on how many people will be registered.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u5	Before I ask if you agree, here you go, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u6	A few hours ago, when the four committees met here...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u7	Wait a minute. For that particular one. If I'm gonna turn it off, I'm gonna give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u8	Don't hang up. I want to talk about it. So the Committee's chairman, because some colleagues have exceeded their time, has come to tell them that you are going against the other Members who will not speak. This was done on Friday or Thursday - I do not remember exactly - in a similar case. We can't take it as you suggest. I would like to do so, but this meeting is taking place on a very serious subject. Do you know how many articles the draft law has? One hundred and ninety. Do you know how many companies this is about? Near the 50 thousand. Do you know how many lawyers, board members, shareholders are relevant? Tens of thousands. Do you realize what will happen if we do some of the mistakes made by the Scientific Studies Directorate in wording, meaning? Take a look. I've rarely seen pages of the Department of Scientific Studies doing you verbal interventions. If it is, Mr President, the abbreviation that is intended to be good, we have no objection. However, if we are not allowed to develop our thoughts, I would ask you to see, within the week, an arrangement concerning Friday. However, it is a hundred and ninety articles, and all of us here do not want us to be accountable to those who will read the Minutes and laugh at us tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u9	Mr Loverdo, first of all, the second sitting, if it takes place, is tomorrow. It is neither Thursday nor Friday nor next week. It's tomorrow. Secondly, as you have heard, I said to see how many colleagues will be registered and, if there are many colleagues, we will be going tomorrow. He won't be deprived of the word to anyone. But if it is five, six colleagues, because I did the timeline, it can end today. Because I would remind you, you are an old parliamentarian, that under the urgency procedure, time is specific, let it be a hundred and ninety articles. There are twelve minutes for speakers, twelve minutes for Members of Parliament and five minutes for colleagues. There will be a relative flexibility, because I recognise what you say, that it is from fifteen and fifteen and more than colleagues. There will not be any colleague here. That is why I said that we are first making this decision and when Mr Athanasios comes down from the Step, and see how many Members have signed it, I will ask again about the final decision. But don't waste time now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u10	I know that this is an urgent procedure. I could say that the Conference of Presidents has decided by a majority. I have not done so, Mr President, so that we can go more quickly.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u11	The final decision is not taken by the Conference. It's taken by the committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u12	But because I know what the majority decision will be, I did not raise it as a matter of speeding up the procedure. However, I would ask you, because it changes the Bureau and every time it comes, it is not certain that it continues what you have said, to be here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u13	Before I go, we'll see again how many people will be registered. In any case, I'll be here until Mr. Athanasios comes down and not just then and we'll coordinate it and, if we can, close it down. If we can't, we'll go tomorrow afternoon, as it's already scheduled.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u14	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u15	Here you go, Mr. Xydakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u16	Mr President, I would like to inform the House or rather to inform my fellow Members that this bill is of great importance because it makes a reform of the Commercial Law, which has been in place since 1920, a century ago. It is very important, and I agree with Mr Loverdos, that every attention should be paid. A lot of legislative improvements have been made by the Minister. He will submit them to this House and we will judge them. In fact, every debate has to be held. So I fully agree with what you said at the beginning that if we keep the time...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u17	With an elasticity I've calculated.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u18	Yeah, it's flexible. It can end tonight. If he can't, he can go on tomorrow. And I would like to complement to colleagues' knowledge that this bill could have been incorporated into the bill. It was not because it was also tabled by the government - and we were also informed as a parliamentary group - that a separate meeting should be held in order to get a decent meeting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u19	Good. So, first of all, we agree as we have said and we will see. Minister, would you like to talk about the legislature now? Are you ready or will you testify on the way, after one or two rapporteurs speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u20	Just one word to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u21	You have the floor. I don't give you time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u22	It was told by the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman that we asked that this bill should not be included in the bill, because it is precisely because we attach the importance it deserves. There was a job quite analytic. In the committee too, we have had a lot of discussion, and we have listened to the institutions. I think that, in general terms, there is a consensus on the draft law. Indeed, there were practical issues which we tried to correct. There'll be a pretty large list of lyrics and other editors...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u23	Is that what you've done, ninety-one interventions?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u24	It's been ninety-one.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u25	That's not things!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u26	It's all right, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u27	Don't have a dialogue. Make your location.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u28	We are listening to the debate, you will see them and you will understand that they are not matters that could not be done. A single parliamentary amendment has been tabled. It's from Mr. Theocharis, Panagoulis, Katsiantoni and Amyra. I think we can accept this amendment. Its spirit is, in my opinion, correct. We could also look at practical and wording issues here, but we do not stick to that. The substance finds us in agreement. It is therefore accepted. To come, to share the legislators, and after the dialogue, we'll move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theory of forty students and students and three of their educational attendants from the 15th Municipal School of Heraklion. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] He has the floor as rapporteur for SYRIZA, Mr Christos Beyalas.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u30	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the second in a series of bills which intervenes and alters the law on companies. What was preceded by this has to do with companies with limited liability. We are now talking about a legislative initiative for public limited companies, which attempts to make a very important contribution to the existing entrepreneurship in Greece, as we know until now and which has been in force since 1920. It's the change of Law 2190. Over the years the law on public limited companies, with any repeated amendments, has remained essentially the same, despite the parallel developments and data of the entrepreneurship of the respective periods, making the most important law of company law in Greece a strong bureaucratic and obstacle to investment and development. In the context of globalisation and competitiveness, many countries have adapted their anonymous companies legislation, advertising their domestic market and thus making it more friendly to foreign investment. In Greece, however, the governments concerned showed flexibility in adapting company law to modern data. Suffice it to note that even in language there is a homogeneity, since Law 2190/1920 is written in purgatory, while many legislative provisions that came after to improve it are in municipal language, thus creating linguistic and serological homogeneity, which we are now correcting for better and safe reading. So it is time to remodel and reshape and not just to amend the law of public limited companies again, with individual regulations of the law, which are improved, simplified, more friendly, with innovations that will help Greek entrepreneurs. And all of this, without making any reductions in the protection of the public interest in relation to the supervision of entities of public interest, that is, companies that are significantly involved in the country's economic life. More specifically, with this bill, we promote transparency and efficiency of controls, by introducing nominal shares for all public limited companies, as anonymous shares pose risks to the fight against dirty money laundering, terrorism and crime. There must therefore be mechanisms to identify the holders of anonymous shares and the actual beneficiaries, which is done by abolishing anonymous shares, since there are not many companies that have anonymous shares and the denomination of them will not be a timely and difficult process. This is done by demolition, immobilization. The shares in companies may be held in accounting after dematerialisation or immobilisation, by issuing nominal certificates, by abolishing the Register of Owners of Anonymous Companies or by identifiable securities on the bearer. The abolition of anonymous shares will apply from 1-1-2020, which is - we consider - a satisfactory transitional period within which companies can adapt and change the regime. It is noted that the nominalisation of the shares is not only for listed companies but also for non-listed companies. With regard to bureaucracy, state supervision, which does not exist in another company, has been reduced by L.3604/2007. However, more bureaucratic barriers and equal treatment issues have been created. The draft law on public limited companies attempts to make it simpler and faster to register companies in GFCM, except in cases of companies of particular importance for the economy and society, where it is more detailed. Controls are created only in constituent acts and not in declaratory acts. It should be noted here that 80% to 90% of the various operations that had to be made public no longer need to be controlled, but can be made public and that companies can be exempt from this administrative burden and operating costs, since 90% of the documents will be registered without prior control of the legality of the regions and the electronic registration will be automatically carried out in the GFCM. A number of rules, such as the obligation to submit to the management of the board of directors and the general meeting, which were of no particular use, are still not repeated. In the event of changes in the company’s existing entries in the GFCM not falling within the previous paragraph, such as changes in the representation of the company or statements for adjustment of the statute within the meaning of paragraph 6 of Article 4, the competent GFCM department shall carry out a formal audit of Articles 7 of Law 3419/2005 of the documents submitted. In other words, it is understood that the documents submitted are complete and meet the requirements of the law without control of their contents. Another thing that is being regulated is the large number of certificates that an undertaking has so far needed to operate in the modern environment. A certificate similar to ‘good standing’ is created that relieves businesses of time and not only runs for all these certificates. By joint decision of the Ministers for Economy and Justice, the GFCM may issue a certificate showing that the company has been established in accordance with the law, that it exists and has not been deleted from the GFCM, that it has not been bankrupt and that it has not been filed against the bankruptcy application and that it has submitted annual financial statements to the GFCM for registration in the last three years or is legally not required for it. Technology is worthy of even more efficient operation of companies and this is why the remote assemblies and votes of the board of directors and the general assembly are introduced. To those companies whose shares are not admitted on a regulated market, the Statute may provide that if the Governing Council so decides, the General Assembly shall not meet at any place in accordance with this Article but shall meet entirely with shareholders' participation from a distance to the electronic means provided for in Article 125. For companies with shares listed on a regulated market, the invitation, in addition to those referred to in the preceding paragraph, shall include information on at least the procedures for the exercise of the right to vote by mail or by electronic means where appropriate, as provided for in Articles 125 and 126. In order to participate in the general meeting in real time, the statutes may provide for the possibility to participate in the general meeting without the physical presence of the shareholder at the place where the shareholder is to be held. In such a case, the company shall take sufficient measures to enable the participant to monitor by electronic or audiovisual means the meeting and to address the assembly orally or in writing during the meeting from a distance and to vote on the items on the agenda. I come to keep an electronic book in the central repository in the bank or in investment firms. The statutes may provide for the electronic maintenance of the book and the maintenance by a central repository of securities by a credit institution or an investment firm, thus simplifying corporate day-to-day life and achieving cost-savings. In addition, the unlimited duration of the company, which relieves shareholders of stress when the use of this company ends, is introduced. There are many examples of companies that lost their start and had escaped from them and huge problems were created and fines were imposed. Thus, the unlimited or unlimited duration of the companies does not raise any question as to the solution and dissolution of the company and which apply the same for the specified period. The duration of the public limited liability company is therefore a fixed and undetermined one. With regard to the board of directors of the company, arrangements shall be made for the chair of the board of directors, as well as for the chairperson of the general meeting and shall become responsible for issuing the company’s transactions with associated members by simplified approval, allowing the majority to request that the matter be decided by the general meeting. With the draft of the new law, we can still create new financial instruments, and bond loans are also provided within public limited companies. The public limited liability company may use the public to cover the capital - in whole or in part - either of the original or the original from an increase or even to cover a convertible bond loan in accordance with the applicable provisions on public securities offers. In other words, this makes it easier to operate and obtain funding from newly created enterprises operating in the form of the public limited company and which are the seed for future generations of listed enterprises. In addition, the possibility of increasing capital by decommissioning debt, which workers will be able to participate. With regard to the restriction and exclusion of the right to preference, there is no exclusion from this right when the capital increase is intended to involve staff in the company’s capital. In Article 113 we have a programme for the disposal of shares to members of the board of directors and staff and for the free disposal of shares to members of the board of directors and staff. It is worth noting that the bill takes into account even the compliance of the courts and tries to resolve the problem by promoting the arbitration settlement of disputes. Other notable changes made by the bill are the creation of uniform rights to shareholders' obligations, in particular: individual information on the company's capital formation and participation. The individual information on the upcoming general meetings. The reduction in some cases necessary for the exercise of minority rights. The possibility of a minority being able to operate and have a reason. The creation of share associations and the stricter conditions for a sound and timely payment of capital. In addition, the Act contains detailed provisions on many controversial issues which it also resolves, such as enabling the Governing Council to be single-handed to micro-enterprises and tripartite to the others, to elect and operate the Executive Board, periodic renewal of the Board of Directors, but also other provisions of other laws. In addition to the above clarifications, the draft law incorporates several provisions, such as the bond loans under Law 3156/2003, e.g. 30/1988, the issues of the change of the dividend entirely regulated, the annual management report of the boards, the corporate governance statement, the non-financial statements, certain provisions of Law 3060/2002 on conflict of interest, as well as certain issues that remain outside the scope of the capital market committee and the initiative belongs to it. We are constantly seeing that the irresistible and unrestrained provisions are better organised and those that do not apply are removed. In short, we find that in the new draft law we are dealing with the complex and hard legal framework under Law 2190 which prevents companies from operating or setting up new enterprises and strengthens the validity of the special corporate form of the public limited company. Its modern provisions strengthen the climate of confidence in the public limited company, which is a key lever for economic growth. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I shall conclude. Please, your tolerance. In the next few months, a bill will come, which will deal with and clarify the issues of business transformations, transformations and mergers and a further piece of legislation, which will improve the General Commercial Register, which will have an important role in the operation of businesses, but will also be an important tool for the Ministry. At this point I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that in the committees in the debate, which took place both at the first and second sittings with the hearing of the bodies and at the third sitting, very important things have been said. Almost all operators had a positive view of the bill. For example, I would mention to you, because it is characteristic that the President of the capital market points out in particular: "This is a really very important intervention, for which he deserves congratulations both to the Deputy Minister, Mr Pitsorla, who completes this effort and, of course, to the committee under Professor Perraki". Like the Heads of the Regulatory Compliance of the Athens Exchange Group: "The bill is a truly modern draft law. All the provisions are modern and enhance climate of confidence in the public limited company." Also, the representative of the Association of Enterprises and Industrys states: "The project actually reflects an excellent effort, as it introduces a simpler plan, which allows for rapid decision-making and the implementation of business initiatives". The ERC Special Adviser says: 'It is positive that it updates the basic provisions'. EBEA Special Adviser, on behalf of Mr Michalos, notes: "The general philosophy of the draft law on public limited companies first finds us in agreement". I will also mention the President of the Chamber of Economics, who notes that it is historic that the change after a hundred years of the introduction of Law 2190 and the Economic Chamber of Greece welcomes the efforts of the Ministry. I have read them for example in order to see that this bill has also received a positive view from the institutions. However, at the same time everyone had their comments to make. In these remarks, as well as in the observation of counter-population and the bodies, the Minister mentioned, bound and presenting the legislative improvements, which contribute to the better functioning of a building, which is new, new, is modern. Ladies and gentlemen, I call on you, following this suggestion, by listening to all other colleagues, to vote in favour of the bill on public limited companies, a tool that will help the entrepreneurship of the country, in which many of us are talking about and all want to move to Greece in order to move forward with growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u31	The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Charalambos Athanasios, has the floor. Mr. Athanasios, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I must say that the draft law on the reform of the law of public limited liability companies has made us very problematic about the final attitude we would adopt as a party. Let me make it clear from the outset: the bill is not a radical reform of the law of public limited companies as it stands. Law 2190/1920 has been amended since its adoption. Thus, this bill, which effectively abolishes this historical law, constitutes a technical reform of the existing provisions and revises some others. With regard to this individual review, we must state that the draft law contains several provisions, with which we agree and agreed at the outset in committee, of course, and we will also agree today in the vote. For others, for which we have expected some positions from the relevant bodies and after the legislative improvements made by the Minister, and in view of the fact that it is a good thing that we are well placed, we will be positive and of course have no objection to supporting them. If, in other words, we had to judge the bill as a whole solely on the basis of its individual articles, we should, at the outset, be positive. And we recommend positive at first. However, it is not just what we want to consider. I have had the honour of being my party's rapporteur, both in the bill for amending the institutional framework of limited companies, as well as in the present for anonymous companies, and I find a common problem. What's that? The lack of a specific philosophy and strategic targeting. It is clear that these bills did not work at the same time as in a single strategy. This is also evidenced by their legal treatment and also by contradictions. For example, anonymous companies with this bill may be unlimited of time, which limited companies were banned without convincing justification. These bills were clearly dealt with as an obligation of our country to our lenders and not as a really great opportunity. Let's see, in total, what role capital companies are invited to play in our country today, in 2018. What different characteristics should anonymous companies, limited companies and private and tax companies have to have. Which companies are matched by what types of company? How we can motivate businesses to choose the company vehicle that really suits them and will help them grow. When a government intends to abolish a historic law, such as Law 2190/20, these questions of philosophy and strategy precede the preparation of individual proposals in order to solve problems that do not deny that they exist. Unfortunately, this has not been done and I cannot help but highlight the loss of the opportunity lost and the government's strategic sluggishness. If the government had moved in the way I am referring to, it would have seen that there is no reason today to have anonymous companies so small that they do not even justify three-member boards. Instead of directing anonymous companies with legislative intervention, we will prefer other ways and types of corporate schemes. We are striving to deal with these problematic situations with solutions, such as the unilateral management boards. Such legislative proposals, essentially balls in situations, but they are not developmental, do not give definitive solutions and do not serve the national economy. Apart from that, I cannot help talking about the rapid process of introducing and voting the bills, as the members of the government themselves prove to be what we know, but also about what has been said here, that it was a large bill, three hundred pages and a hundred ninety articles. The institutions themselves said they did not have enough time to study it in depth. Of course they are right, as the bill contains many extremely technical provisions, which require systematic analysis. For the reasons I mentioned, we have been very concerned about our position in principle. Finally, taking into account the positive attitude of bodies to individual provisions, we decided to vote in favour of the bill at first, but voting against the provisions with which we disagree. For reasons of brevity, I shall refer exclusively to the provisions on which we continue to disagree, and also to the reasons for our disagreement. Of course, we believe in the Minister - and it is good - that he has received some of the remarks that he has made, not only the New Democracy but also the other parties, and has indeed brought substantial legislative improvements and we believe that to the Minister. I will confine myself to our disagreements. Article 9. We have disagreements on Article 9, Minister, because we do not believe that the responsibilities for attitudes and control of legality are sufficiently regulated, between the General Commercial Register and the State Departments. We believe that the general trade register, having operated effectively so far, could also have additional competences. We also disagree with Article 20 because we disagree with the complete abolition of state control for the payment of the share capital. The certificate from sworn-out accountants, which qualify as counterweight, has a great deal of business costs, while the self-certification proposed for small anonymous companies creates windows for the operation of virtual companies, while auditors and audited companies are themselves. We could, however, agree in this article on the payment of capital by a compatible set-off of claims, but you see, you bring it into an article, with many paragraphs and while we want to vote on a few provisions, we cannot vote on them because, as you know, according to the Rules of Procedure of the House, the article must be voted on uniformly and cannot be voted on by paragraphs. With regard to the denomination of shares - and I am referring to Articles 40 and 184, in conjunction with the main article with the transitional provision - we have been very concerned. We understand that it is a major issue of transparency and the fight against black money. On the other hand, we agreed at the hearing of the institutions that there were other solutions that would bring the same results, such as the Italian model of immobilisation in a repository, which were not considered. In other words, the logic of 'head pains, head cuts' was followed. However, we believe that if the aim is to combat black money, the provision is partly incomplete. Why? Because money laundering through an anonymous company can also be done through anonymous bonds, which the bill provides. Finally, we understand the concerns which have developed on the basis of Article 102. The non-separation of members of a board of directors in executable and non-members, with a performance of each category of members of different types of liability, raises issues in the functioning of public limited liability companies. This is because they are discouraged by participation in the board of directors by important business figures, and even their typical participation raises serious risks to them. You can see what happened with the case law and the matters that have been raised in the case-law. Indeed, lately, the Court of Appeal, the Marios Ice, was responsible, according to the law, for all the members of the board of directors, came the case-law and excluded those who had no management relationships or were not executive members. If we want strong public limited companies that are resistant to international competition, then we have to understand that they require strong administrative councils, with personalities with knowledge and experience. This is done in all the successful economies. If non-executive members are at risk of being destroyed because of their simple involvement in the board of directors, we are not helping the anonymous companies or the country as well. That is why we will vote against this article in the current form, unless you bring some sort of legislative improvement to the end of the debate, which separates and divides the responsibilities as they should be. For reasons of philosophy, which I have already mentioned, we also disagree with Article 115 for the single management body, namely a single management board, on the assumption that the obligation for at least three-member management boards can and must act as an incentive for such small companies to be involved in the type of limited liability company or a private capital company. We also disagree with Article 144, as has been pointed out by the Union of listed companies. I think the memo, which they brought us, is very informative. Why do we disagree? Because it concerns us that members of the same association of shareholders may be shareholders of different public limited companies, the interests of which do not necessarily go hand in hand or may be conflicting, and that there may be more than one shareholder association of the same company. That's not gonna happen. So you realize what a cylon is to be created. This should not lead to the creation of conditions of abusive exercise of shareholders' rights, nor to the trading of shareholders' ownership, nor to the manipulation of shareholders. We also disagree with the provisions of Part Three, with the exception of Article 178, and I will be clearer. Article 177 in the first paragraph provides as an offence for the preparation of financial statements or consolidated financial statements in breach of the law. The case is unclear 'in breach of the law' because it also means simply formal infringements. It is therefore more appropriate to remove the case ‘or draw it up in contravention of the law’. Because we will also have problems with the issue of the serialisation of crimes, as I have explained to you in committee. Because there are too many provisions here, which are divisively regulated. These are provisions which, in the legal language, constitute the so-called ‘coherently mixed offences’. In other words, there are many ways that can be accomplished, but every way is an independent crime. I pointed it out the other day, and your consultants had to tell you. I wanted you to see it, but I don't see you seeing it. As a result, all of these provisions will be dispersed by bringing down crimes. I have the impression, however, that if Article 177 removes the phrase 'or draws it up in contravention of the law', the New Democracy will vote for the article. The same applies to the second paragraph of that Article concerning the distribution of profits on the basis of situations ‘written in breach of the law’. On the same basis, since punishment is already provided for, when profits are distributed on the basis of inaccurate or misleading information, we will have absorption, that is, a special provision and a more general provision. Here too, there will be a problem. You can fix it. In paragraph 5 of that article, I think that, in order to comply with the whole spirit of the provision, you should add, after the incomplete, non-legal report, etc. and the words 'or misleading', which you are repeating in the above reports. That way there'll be an evaporation in the whole arrangement. With regard to Article 179, paragraph 5, the provision of a ‘up to one year’ penalty is particularly lenient for anyone who deliberately impedes the carrying out of an inspection. I mean, there's a contradiction here. Let's explain it, Minister. I think you can see it and instead of putting the words'storage up to 1 year', put the words'survivors', which goes up to five years. It will thus be subject to the judgement of the courts to weigh the infringement on the basis of the mesh of the paragraphs of that article. In Rule 180, I must say that a very good job has indeed been done. It was a difficult article. Of course I don't have much to say. You have rightly deleted the last paragraph of Article 180, because it would cause problems. We pointed it out. Of course, this - let me say - we believe you. In Article 181, in the first paragraph, it is not understandable to provide for a true streak, as I have told you, in general and in vaguely with other provisions. In the case of infringements, for example abuse of the market or the legislation of the capital market, the offences referred to in Articles 176 and 177 of the draft law may be related to an apparent conflict. I don't know if there's any legal person there to figure it out and fix it, because we're gonna have the same problem. Therefore, the provision will only create problems. The existence of a true drag under other provisions of the Criminal Code of Special Criminal Laws, based on the criterion of the contested good, is already a work known to the courts, without the need for a vague reference. I therefore think that paragraph 1 should be deleted. But from what I have seen, I think you have corrected it, Minister. You have rejected paragraph 1, as we said. Well, it's very right. We shall then also vote on Rule 181. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u33	First of all, before we go to the procedural proceedings, I think that we must unanimously express our condolences to the families of two persons who left us. It's a woman and a man. The woman is our colleague Virginia Tsouterou. The older ones remember it because it was for too many years in this Chamber and it has had a lot of action. The second was a personality of business and sport life. I refer to Paul Giannakopoulos. On behalf of all the wings of the Parliament, we express our warmest condolences to the families and Virginia Tsouterou and Paul Giannakopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u34	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u35	Just a minute, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr. Loverdos rightly made sense to me, but I had said I would be elastic because of the size of the bill. Parliamentary representatives and rapporteurs, instead of twelve minutes of 'legally' - it is not legal - will have fifteen minutes of speaking. The Members who have been signed are all five and everyone and instead of five minutes will have eight minutes. Two parliamentary representatives will not speak. The Minister asked for ten minutes. But because he might have to answer, I'll give him 30 minutes. The other Members will have an hour. So I summed up the years and we're going to need five hours. So at 23:00 tonight we can finish. If you have no objection, and we agree, we shall close at 23.00 and if necessary the rapporteurs can only have a small second language. So I'm making my promise to my counterpart in football, Mr. Loverdo, that I'll do it before I leave the Chair. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u36	Mr President, I would like to put forward some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u37	You don't have to explain them. Submit the legislators to be photographed and distributed to colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u38	We need to hear them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u39	Mr. Loverdo, the State Secretary will be here by the end. I believe that you should read them and that if there are clarifications, explanations will be given.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u40	There's a lot of them. I'm filing them now. They'll all share, so in the conversation, if necessary, we'll answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u41	Mr. Carras has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. I had started by thinking in plenary today about the fact that this is a good piece of legislation and I would say that the working party, which worked under Professor Perakis, has brought about a first result of its task. However, on the way, I hear that there are ninety-five legislative improvements, which may be simple, verbal and arithmetic. Unfortunately, however, many times, legislative improvements have seen there being whole paragraphs or whole proposals that change or alter the form of provisions, for which I am invited to put forward today in the debate. This therefore force me to express my objections and my protest, because only in order to make the correspondence between the ninety legislative improvements and the original text, which we have at our disposal, to the same as 'legally improved', it takes two or three hours, which has not been given to me since the improvements have not been tabled. So in the debate, which will follow, I have to say that I cannot support or accept that the way in which good legislation is done is due to take place. Another issue that compels me to comment on is that it came under the urgency procedure. It was also mentioned that this legislation was a prerequisite requirement. Unfortunately - and I must say this - I have turned to that famous 'additional memorandum' that the European Commission has made on its website, which what it says as a prerequisite. It says that in order to modernise company law the government has prepared an overview of the changes needed to bring Law 2190 into line with best practices. So here we have a law that is essentially the Code of Public Companies, because they are the ninety articles, which include all the basic provisions of earlier law, and they would suffice to change the original one. We will therefore be discussing this law today, which in the regulation report and in the evaluation report is said to have an impact on the economy. On the one hand, he expects better and greater competitiveness of businesses and on the other, on the other hand, what was the prerequisite, were some interventions to create some better conditions and conditions under reasonable conditions, we would have to come to a codification at the right time to discuss, not under the current circumstances of urgency as a prerequisite. Of course, I also have a further comment on the report on the assessment of the arrangements. It tells us, therefore, that it expects the competitiveness of businesses to be strengthened. This would, of course, be an ideal thought if we lived under normal, normal economic conditions and we could say that the economy of Greece is at its best, and we need a piece of legislation, full, anonymous companies, so that growth can be strengthened. However, the facts, which currently exist in Greek reality, are quite different. This morning, in the same Chamber, in plenary, arrangements were being discussed, governmental proposals, which more strongly restore what has been voted previously by the government majority. Who's that? Those cuts, those related to the Greek State's commitment to the loan of the Memorandum. And I'm wondering now. Strengthen growth, develop. How will there be growth, when the banking system cannot lend the economy, because it does not have the necessary liquidity and whatever money is currently available, is to cover the banks' supervisory capital and nothing further? I will give you an example today. We have seen that by means of a provision in the so-called multi-project, all the balances of the general government's accounts will be transferred to the government's established central account. The government did not, however, tell us what the number is, what the amount of money is. From articles - without claiming accuracy - I read that it is EUR 2,600,000 from the four systemic banks, which will be transferred to the central account of the Bank of Greece, so that they can be converted into repos. And what does that mean, in our view? Remove additional resources from the private economy. These EUR 2,600,000 - if the figure is correct, I repeat - would be a means of strengthening the economy, a means of strengthening consumption, lending and the public limited companies we are talking about in order to achieve the multiplication of money. Today these are also removed and driven to the Bank of Greece to serve exclusively the loan needs of the country. So let's go down. You want to talk about the law, too? Let's talk about the law, too. I will not say what will happen - not to become tiring again - with the primary surpluses, if it is too much, how they affect growth or not of the economy. I will say something else, however, in addition to the previous ones. What is the Public Investment Programme, so as to say that through public investment and public limited companies - to connect it to the legislation we are discussing today - they can benefit by taking on public works and supplies and produce and operate the economy better and develop? Of course, here I am obliged to say that the countermeasures, which the government is alleged to support, will already have removed the resources from the economy, and when they exist, they will create additional recession or have led the economy to a further recession and then it will be a gift free. So I see now, Mr President, that the legislative improvements are distributed, the ones I have spoken about at the outset. Even if they are distributed, then, I must say something and confuse it: as an old legal officer - let me be selfish - I know that when there is no case-law already in a new piece of legislation - and I have done so many times - one has appealed to the debates in this House to draw up interpretation arguments for the law. We have often been forced, where there was no case-law, to see the Minutes of Parliament and, in particular, the minutes, where the wider debate is taking place. How, then, will we help the future interpreter of law, the law on public limited companies, when today, at the moment, any improvements, which may be typical, may be verbal, but, in any case, may be numerical, in order to propose and bring them into the law, mean that they help to interpret? So how am I, as a speaker, to be able to place myself and help my colleague - a future implementer and interpreter of the law? I believe that this too will fail. I will say one last thing: I see that the draft law, which we are debating, has a similar form of Law 2190, with the interventions and the supplements that have been made. I have therefore sought the way, even if I want to have an optimism, if you wish, Minister, and ladies and gentlemen. Anonymous companies: 24,000 euros, 25,000 euros. So why should the shares be denominationd at EUR 25 000? I have not received an answer because EUR 25,000 costs a oven today, a small oven from many who serve coffee in the hand. That's the investment. Is that where money is going to be laundered? It will probably be done in large companies, in large public limited companies that require capital. But there too, it is not easy to catch the spread, because the shareholders of large anonymous companies are other limited companies and usually the parent companies are foreign companies, for which we never have a picture of what the real shareholders are. So I have some reservations about how with the nameisation of the shares we will achieve a result. Let small companies be nominal, because they have no object. Of course, the law itself - I said it in committee too - comes as a single piece of legislation and few notes, discrimination makes between small, smaller, medium-sized and large enterprises. But I return to the crisis: How can the person concerned set up a public limited company, be healthy, or how can the existing public limited company, be strengthened by increasing funds, since we said it could not be through bank lending? Who will be willing, those who will put their hand in the pocket, to deposit the funds needed for the operation of a business? So I see that it goes into a form which was also in the previous legislative system, but, unfortunately, it has not worked out what is expected in practice. It is only about very large businesses. In fact, in the last few days, in one of the large Greek companies that appears international, we have a problem with the collapse of the bonds that it has received and not just. We have read in Sunday newspapers that the bondholders are joining - I am not mentioning the name of the company, it is well known, it is faux bijoux - to turn against the company and possibly against the capital market committee, whose representative, of course, came to our committee and said that the bill is too good, but it did not have the sensitivity to at least address some questions to him, to give us some explanations and he left first. I don't know why. So satisfied was he from the bill? So sure it was gonna be all right, or did he want to avoid? I don't care. I don't care. So I'm coming back. We are talking about bond loans and we say that, from now on, the Greek companies will be able to issue several categories of bond loans in the interest of the private investment public. Let me remind you of something: Bond loans have an advantage and a disadvantage over capital increases. Bonds are always domicile. They may be convertible, they may be repurchaseable, but the burden on companies is similar to bank lending. There has been some two years ago a similar provision, Minister, concerning the abolition of the maximum interest rate on bonds which was 5%. So, two years ago, the law came to tell us this: Do you know what? When anyone borrows through bond lending, there is no 5% limitation on the loan, so they can - says - attract money to Greece, come funds. So today, within the law itself, you say - I am referring to Article 60 - that the interest rate is released - there is no maximum interest rate - in the issue of bonds covered by private funds and that the bonds cover them, ultimately, in the form of the guarantee. So the question arises: What is the interest rate today, with which a large, medium-sized company can be strengthened with a bond loan? Is that 5%? Is that 4,70%, what the Greek state did back for? You told us that it was due to Italy's ambiguous political situation. I'll take it. Italy has worked and we have not been able to get the 10 billion bond. But is this a healthy loan of 5%, 6%, 4,75%, which will strengthen the economy? I don't think so. And, indeed, I'm suspicious of something else. There is a provision in the same draft law, which says that known companies acquiring and managing "red" loans - claims, according to the letter of the law, Law No.4354 - are now called "finances", i.e. they are transferred to a broader regime than that under which they were subject to the control of the Bank of Greece, and they have the right to be legal representatives of bond holders. Why is that? No explanation yet. Of course I cannot always be critical of the whole bill, which has a historical origin and which, of course, I will repeat again that I do not want to be unfair to anyone - it is a product of diligent work. My criticism is based on the present needs of the country and the economy. And to give another example, because I see that my time is running out, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u43	We've been over time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u44	Minimum tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u45	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u46	In Greece, they are registered - I have noted this, and I consider it accurate, because I have checked it - forty-three thousand six hundred and eight anonymous Greek companies - let me call them that - nationality. Of course, I do not claim that all of this works. But they've been founded. They may be in hypnosis, they may not have any activity. This means that the concept of the Greek public limited company is underestimated, because we are all making a public limited company, in order to avoid third parties, supposedly, which we do not ultimately avoid, because we are called by the bank to give us EUR 1,000, a minimum loan, and we are all signing up to a third generation, even father-in-law and father-in-laws and co-in-laws! I will restart my thoughts and say that. For these forty-three thousand six hundred and forty-eight anonymous companies, should we not be able to save enough of them and now introduce simplified transformation arrangements? I would remind you of the issue of L.3190 for the limited liability companies I have put and about the possibility or not to be converted, so that they continue to exist and that the ECA does not immediately claim insurance contributions from all shareholders. In any case, it's supposed to be moved for the future. And I'm going to end up with a point of order, if you want, that's got to me. Many provisions state that differences in the procedure for interim measures will be resolved.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u47	Mr. Carras, you need to close up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u48	I'll beg for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u49	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u50	I repeat, therefore, that too many provisions state that disputes will be resolved by the procedure for interim measures, without the right to legal remedy being granted. Let the people in charge see it. The new Civil Procedure entitles the judge and the proceedings for interim measures to impose the proceedings within a period of time. Does this have to be clarified, so that no judges can be found who will often void the resolution of disputes? In any case, we shall be voting on several provisions, Minister, and at first I shall say that we are voting on the law - so that we do not give the impression that we are negative. But we want to take account of and hear the remarks I have made today and those on which Mr Loverdos will then be placed, because we do not believe that the development which was required was not given at the critical sitting today. Thank you, Mr President, in particular.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting from the top Western theory, twenty-six students and schoolchildren and four school attendants from the 12th Municipal School of Fine Alexandroupolis. Welcome to the House! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Parliamentarians Markos Bolaris, George Vagionas and Kostas Kokodimos are requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u52	The House therefore approved the requested authorisations. The special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Mr Ioannis Shahinides, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. The fact that I would hear the mouth of a left-wing rapporteur calling for a draft law relating to anonymous companies really goes beyond me! It reminded me of the image of a cartoon depicting the left at an early age with the alphabet in the circle, adolescence transforming into a signal of peace and adulthood into a Mercedes signal. There have been ninety-five legislative improvements, Minister. This shows that your government is probably in need of translator recruitment. There is a common requirement, ladies and gentlemen, in this place for clearance. Before this draft law begins, the committees have started the debate on the prerequisites. All of this, like the memorials, would not be necessary if all the governments that passed through the Migration and then had arranged to vote for bills that would protect Greek citizens from companies like today's debates. This does not mean that all anonymous companies are companies that want to launder black money. Fortunately, we have many examples from companies which have had to be operating standards for many years now, in relation to what they offer their workers and what they pay for the funds of the state. We have heard that all the previous speakers are being cut in favour of transparency and the fight against black money. That's not true. And because we have taught you in this Chamber to always discuss with arguments and evidence, Minister, in your committees I had spoken of a scandal about Mr Marinopoulos. You have assured me that this is not the case. Perhaps your partners lied, because I had a phone call just now with the journalist who wrote this article and said to me: "I am responsible for the appeal of my article." So it is absolutely true, and I consider it to be a given, unless one of Mr Marinopoulos, Sklanitis or you, or the Ministry, is going to prove that this is not the case. If you want, I have the phones to confirm. It is true and is quite unfortunately true. And believe me we're not happy when we're confirmed for such situations. We are therefore talking about a limited company such as the ones we are discussing, which, although it is in the Banking Code, has managed and received insurance and tax information for a refund of EUR 8 million from fines. We are talking about a company, which has made money of EUR 1,800,000 in twelve countries. We are talking about a company that has bored such a'standard' in the market, which, because of its behaviour, has been forced to close too many other companies. I will table in the Minutes a list of companies concerned and I will read some names to understand what is happening, because unfortunately these are a chain. The fact that a company chooses to be a bad-payer to suppliers is forcing other healthy businesses to close by creating unemployment, and that they also book companies from which the Greek State received money. Where did MARINOPOULOS owe? According to an article in the “NEW YORK TIMES”, it owed to SARANTI EUR 6,4 million, to “NATIONAL PANGAIA” EUR 17,3 million, to “CRETA FARMS” EUR 8,6 million, to “KARAMOLEGO” EUR 10,82 million, to “NICA” EUR 4,2 million, to “FODLINK” EUR 3,173,000, to “KRI” about EUR 5,500 - to “PAPOTSANIS” EUR 368,000, to “KRITON ARIS” EUR 640,000, to “BUTTA” EUR 152,000, to “EBROFARMA” EUR 677,000,000, to “MYLUS LOULE” EUR 360,000, in the “DELTA” Group, EUR 18,7 million, to “BARTA STATHIS” 7,7 million. So you realize what these people have done. I put it in the Minutes, so that colleagues can have access too. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Sahinides, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Through this 'order' that fell on the streets - to speak popularly, too - the money I mentioned earlier, EUR 1.8 billion, went abroad. The Marinopoulos family is alleged to transfer this money to foreign companies and locations, such as Luxembourg, the United States, the Bahamas, Qatar, Bulgaria, the Netherlands, France, while making multiple investments. In no case can I adopt these publications, but once there is a man who has written these publications - and indeed everyone invokes the same source, the newspaper DIMMOCRATIA - I am obliged to show them. I'm putting these in the Minutes too. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Sahinides, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The point is, however, that looking on the Internet for what is happening with Marinopoulos has come up with something else. Mr Athanasios must also answer us here, because what I will say has happened in his day. But the bad thing is that it has come to an end on your day, Minister. We are talking about MARINOPOULOS, which held the so-called 'STARBUCKS' coffee chain. STARBUCKS in 2013 on a New Democracy Government and with Prime Minister Samaras - you were Head of the Ministry of Justice, Mr Athanasios - a fine of EUR 1.131,000 has been established under the control of the IAEA. This fine was finally paid only EUR 100,000.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u54	How did that happen? After he was sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u55	I'll tell you exactly how it happened. Be a little patient and you'll all hear it. So this company's accounts took over by PRICE WATER HOUSE COOPERS and to find a solution - we are talking about one of the largest companies in the world dealing with accounting taxes - it has undertaken to negotiate the fine. Here is a Mrs Eleni Doura, the director of legal services - and I will put these in the Minutes for you to have them at your disposal - and she tells us from an e-mail that this journalist has in her hands that everything I say is coming to you. What's going on? After there have been attempts and finally dropped the fine since 1.131000 euros I am telling you, it writes at some point that "management of this issue" - and your service, your ministry, should be taken over, because that was on the Internet since then, Mr. former Minister - "... should be done at another level, pressure should be exerted as a group at State and media level..." So what's going on? Unfortunately, the Greek people are confirmed that you are the same in food and you are left and right. However, all this was finalised on 8 May 2015 when the decision was finally adopted and the EUR 131 000 was reduced to EUR 100,000. That is to say, this company saved EUR 1,031,000, companies with share capital - and it is not compatible - with the mere Greek businessman who in no way has access to such regulations. I'm presenting it for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u56	So we didn't cut it down.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u57	Your governments have started and their governments have come to an end. We have here another list of known anonymous companies. If you were to pay attention to these a few years ago, you would not have been able to vote for any memos or prerequisites. ‘AXON HOLDINGS’ by Thomas Liakunakou 447,000 euros. A subsidiary of the AXON HOLDINGS Group, EUROMEDICA, has a bank debt of EUR 372,000. "MEGA CHANNEL" Bobolas, Psychris, Vardinoyannis Banking Loan 123,000 euros. Mytilinaou Group 861,000 euros. "KORITHOS POWER", shareholder of 65% Mytileneos and 35% Vardinoyannis, 172,000 euros. INTRACOM Socrates Kokkalis 351,000 euros. "GASOS EDUCATION" EUR 164,000. Electoral group Elector 1,000,700,000 euros. Lambraki Journalist Agency 134,000 euros. "MOTOR OIL" EUR 1,200,000. "STAR CHANNEL" 58 million euros. "AND1" Group EUR 170,000. ‘ALPHA TV’ EUR 58 million. ‘J&P AVAX’ EUR 265,000. ‘MARFIN’ of Vegeopopoulos EUR 2 billion. "BIOHALKO" EUR 1,100,000. "TITAN" Leonida Kanellepoulou 1 billion euro. ‘FORTHNET NOVA’ EUR 331,000. 'MINOAN LINES' EUR 270,000. The total bank lending of these enterprises is EUR 10.6 billion, that is 10% of the debt that we entered the International Monetary Fund and the Memorandums. They are, for example, the samples of how dominated in the banks are most of the money's fewers in this country. Minister, the list I mentioned to you is a small list. It is the latest updated list published by the database of TAXIS/ICIS information systems, as updated and maintained by DUs and customs. Date of birth: 9 August 2017. We ask you, will there be another updated list soon, and if so? The reason we ask, Minister, to be Golden Dawn is simple. Since this list excludes debts that have been subject to a partial payment facility or to a partial payment regulation, no debts for the payment of which have been ordered under a judicial decision in accordance with Article 3 of Law No.1185/2011 and no debts exist in this list, which are either in dispute or debts of the deviant poor. So the list will contain problematic companies and malicious payers. So, beg to clarify the scenery about these unsubs. It's not just the unsubs. There's a couple of E.R.A.s too. and some individual businesses. If all that we have said were working as it should, our country today would not have had to bear what it is drawing. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The last sentence, Mr President, is closed. You have some questions about the rise of the Golden Dawn. Your own policies and soon these policies will bring us as a military opposition and in a short time as a government. You are the cause of nationalism. And be good that you hurt Greece, so we can come and change them and we can shape them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u58	We continue with the special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Athanasios Vardalis. Come on, Mr Vardalis, you have the floor with regard to the tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. It was not to take the government once, now it's not stopping anywhere. It has to pass, you see, the tests it gives to capital and to a better degree than its competitors for the government chair. That is why it brings one bill behind the other, to facilitate business activity, to support the profitability of capital. With the draft law on public limited companies you are taking another step towards the overall effort to reform and modernise all commercial law, you are taking every obstacle, you are helping to reduce their operating costs and simplify the procedures for the establishment and operation of companies. Your policy has to say that it is not a fragmentary one. You have a comprehensive plan. And what's that? To create a favourable environment for the increase of profitable investments - not that there is not now, in particular in recent years of the capitalist economic crisis, a number of measures have been taken in this direction - but now government, European Union and business groups think that it is necessary to strengthen even more this favourable environment that has been created over the years. The clear commitments you make to the representatives of the capital, with these molluscs - bring to their conferences, indicate that industrialists demand and the government implements exactly what the capitalists demand. From a promise of cheap money to monopolist groups, tax exemptions, tax exemptions, exemptions, financing packages and others. On the other hand, the commitment not to reintroduce the disembodied conquests of the workers of recent years, which are called 'families', is still the cause of the crisis. After all, these are the conditions for ensuring competitiveness and guaranteeing this capitalist development. What you are trying to do is strengthen all the necessary conditions to attract profitable investments, burdening them, at this time, on the promotion of anti-grass restructuring, which are commitments from the memorandums, but also proposals from both the OECD, as well as the European Union and the International Monetary Fund. So at this stage of anemical capitalist development these unpopular restructurings come to button with all the anti-grass measures that reduced the direct and indirect costs of businesses, the measures taken by all three Memorandums that you keep intact. And you add another package of heavy anti-grassroots measures with the dozens of prerequisites for the fourth evaluation, and the medium-term framework that is currently being discussed in the committees and you will, of course, vote on Thursday. On this occasion, too, we would like to call on the workers and the people of Europe to put their own needs ahead and to strengthen the fight against employers, government and the European Union, in the face of the old and new measures that you are loading them. No one is drawn from the promises and great words of the government. To give even more decisive the battle for the success of the rallys organized by the Pan-Attagonistic Front on Thursday, June 14 against the multi-project with the dozens of anti-Latin prerequisites for the fourth evaluation. "Memorandum Greece" not only does not bring about loss recovery and relief for the working people, but will further strengthen the anti-grass attack on the basis of the European Union monitoring memoranda. Next to all the anti-grassroots measures taken by all the governments in the years of the capitalist economic crisis, now through the anti-grass restructuring you are creating and other conditions, but necessary for the profitability of business groups, various infrastructures that the capital needs for example, changes and modernisations of licensing regimes, controls and new systems, a question that you are trying to implement mainly through the bill that we are discussing for public limited companies or as you did with the bill for limited companies, and overall with changes in commercial law. But you don't just live in them. In the same direction you take advantage of the various financial instruments such as the NSRF, the Juncker Package, the Development Bank, the Public Investment Programme to provide cheap money to business groups. For the same reason you offer new tools, such as changes in land use, forest maps, land register, delimitation of the hayalus, various development plans. So everything about socially responsible entrepreneurship, as you yourself say. After all, the main, the principal premier of the capital itself is precisely this creation of conditions for profitability, and indeed what they care about is the hunting of the highest percentage of profit. Do what you can to create conditions so that there can be profitability. That's the real truth. Indeed, we would say that in this direction you are doing much more than the previous ones and more effectively. After all, this is the real conflict with the New Democracy and the Democratic Alliance. You want to prove who is the most capable of ensuring the profitability of business groups, to ensure healthy capitalist growth. That is why in the bill that we are debating today and concerning anonymous companies or a few days ago what was about limited companies, but in any case when matters relating to the business world are being discussed, the New Democracy and the Democratic Partnership treat them as if you had taken the bite out of their mouth. You, the SYRIZA Government, are doing their job well - I mean businessmen - and what recognizes the capital in your own effort is that all this anti-popular policy is being implemented for the time with the smallest resistance. This very issue of capital is of great importance, I would say, for its policy to go through, that is, with the least resistance from the people. Besides, that's why they prefer you, that's what they recognize in your own policy. However, these feats, yours, which open new profit fields to business groups, deepen exploitation on the other hand and abolish labour rights conquered by blood, which generalise the attack on the people's families. What are you trying to achieve through this bill for anonymous corporations? Modernising legislation aims at a better and more efficient operation of these companies, the use of technology in their benefit, improves the position of shareholders, simplifys, as you say, corporate everyday life, helps save costs and introduce various innovations that you judge are interesting to the business world. This is what you yourself say in the explanatory statement. Basically, what you are doing is copying the relevant provisions of the rightful countries - members of the European Union. Through the revision of provisions, although in the recent past, all state supervision has been abolished. Along with corporate legal supervision, certain relevant rules are abolished, in particular the obligation to submit the general meeting and the board of directors, except in the case of decisions to be included in the GFCM. A new title that may be issued by a public limited company, such as linked securities, is entered. Provision is made for the issue of intangible securities by unlisted companies. Improve the technical methods of operating the company's institutions through the widest use of remote voting at boards and general meetings, the shareholders' book being kept electronically, etc. Import the unlimited duration of the company. Issues are being addressed with regard to the rights and obligations of shareholders and within all of them is the sharing of profits. Under the pretext of decongestion of the courts, this draft law encourages arbitrary settlement of disputes and so on. All the above mentioned are targeted, as you yourself say in the explanatory statement, in addition to addressing any legal problems, improving the status of the public limited company, simplifying, becoming more friendly by introducing innovations and helping Greek entrepreneurs in such a way that it can advertise the domestic market and make it more friendly to foreign investors. Investments you're looking for, i.e. investors. That is the essence of the bill and its aim. Of course, and we do not forget that you are doing all of this, as you say, for development. That capitalist development you all support. You, like other urban parties, believe in this development path and believe in the joke of fair growth, as you themselves support. But that story is old. It has also been released from previous urban governments. It's not just your privilege. What to learn from the multitude of such propaganda titles! You remember I imagine "strong Greece" once, "re-establishment of the state", "success story" and so many others, said in the recent past. But the basic core of all this is actually the same. The people have always been directly called upon to make sacrifices, with the promise that these sacrifices will be temporary and will contribute to increasing the profits of monopolistic groups. The increase in the profitability of capital will then ensure the well-being of employees and self-employed people and, as you say, in the foreseeable future. Although the story of all of you is old, the new account, the new story of SYRIZA takes easily the first prize, in our opinion, of courage and political deception. "We come out of the memorials", "we turn a page", "we proceed to fair growth", where the benefits are distributed rapidly throughout society and the burdens are distributed proportionally to the different incomes. This new miraculous policy of SYRIZA - ANEL, the interests of capital now go hand in hand with the interests of the victims of capital. But come on, the laws of the capitalist economy are not abolished. Come that the need for capital to increase exploitation, to undisturbed the working class and to increase its profits does not belong to the past, but belongs to the present. Come on that these smart original solutions of SYRIZA, such as the new development incentives, the emphasis on innovation, the extroversion of businesses - which are not just SYRIZA here - have this, the reform of the tax and insurance system, changes and modernisation of the licensing regimes, the operation of business groups in general, and their relationship with the state, have all these tragic consequences, they have this barbarity that people are experiencing today. Self-employed workers, poor farmers have counted huge, large, bloody losses since the beginning of the capitalist crisis in Greece. The people must therefore judge every urban development policy and it, based on the recovery of their great losses first and foremost and above all, on the requirement to satisfy the modern, current needs, which are constantly sacrificed on this altar, on the altar of capitalist profit. SYRIZA - ANEL Government calls on the people, who have lifted the burdens of the crisis eight years now, to accept, to be slaughtered even more, to recover the profits of business groups. And while it applies austerity to the people, and in the coming years it will continue to apply austerity to the people, on the other hand it has the courage to speak of long times that will come. For all these reasons, the Communist Party of Greece will vote against this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u60	We proceed with the special speaker from the Independent Greeks, Mr. George Lazarides. Come on, Mr. Lazarides. You have euphoria too, I don't think you're gonna need any more time. You have the floor and I give you the floor to Mrs Christodoulopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, after almost a hundred years and with the introduction of Codified Law 2190/1920 on public limited liability companies, we have the new draft law, which seeks to reform the law of these companies. The bill is quite large, and it is the modernisation of a legislative framework on entrepreneurship and public limited companies, which have so far been governed by Law 2190/1920, as we said earlier, a law which, during the ninety-eight years, has been subjected to many fragmentary amendments. The new arrangements aim at a better and more efficient operation of the company, take advantage of the technology, improve the position of shareholders, simplify corporate everyday life with corresponding cost savings and introduce innovations that have been judged to be of interest to the business world. We heard the institutions put together and the first conclusion that could be drawn was the need to replace Law 2190/1920, which is still the body of our company law. The previous law, unfortunately, had naughty legislation, a pluralism which created issues in which entrepreneurship was difficult to meet, as well as provisions of antiquated ones that are finally being abolished and modernised, following the requirements of our day. The draft law we are debating today aims to concentrate on a single legal framework and to improve all these provisions and finally introduce innovations and tools for those who are trying in our country. New technologies with better organisation and flexibility for the operation of companies means cost savings and the creation of a new additional place of activity and investment, which is to the benefit of all companies and thus all participants, shareholders and employees. First of all, we agree with the provisions introducing new information on the votes of the administrative boards and general meetings at a distance, as the daily life of the shareholders is simplified, which was necessary for years, but at the same time, at the same time, a commitment to keep the e-book in the central repository of banks or investment firms. Through this modernisation, time-consuming procedures, an element of bureaucracy, will be reduced with the aim of orderly corporate governance of public limited companies, simplifying procedures and reducing the costs of administrative burdens. Controls will also be carried out only in constituent acts and not in declaratory acts, while the large volume of certificates will finally be reduced in order to relieve companies of the ongoing arrangements and to adequately deal with their activities. As far as our own state supervision is concerned, the rules will be ensured and the procedures will be automatically supervised by registering them in the GFCM. I'm going through something as important now. We see that the unlimited duration of the company, which exempts shareholders from the care to extend the fixed term on expiry, is permitted under Union law. The company, with an unlimited duration, unlike the legal relationships of indefinite duration, is not solved by a complaint, but by the same reasons as the fixed-term company. As long as there is no question of the solution and dissolution, which apply the same rules for certain years, we see this provision positively. It is given to the interested greater institutional freedom on many issues, and the amounts of profits which can be distributed are clear that they are actually gains and not gains. Something just as important now is that uniform rights are created to the shareholders' obligations. There is individual information on the capital formation of the company, individual information on the upcoming general meetings, where necessary and may be provided in the statutes to tighten the conditions of sound and timely payment of the capital. Ladies and gentlemen, the law contains many clarifications on many controversial issues, but also on other provisions of other laws, which it also resolves, such as the periodic renewal of the board of directors. However, one of the most important provisions and the element that shields the long-term viability of the companies is the introduction of nominal shares for all shares from 1-1-2020. The mechanisms are being created and the beneficiaries of the public limited companies will be identified by making the process of financial control easier, allowing us to check any parallel or illegal money routes. It is being given freedom to the parties concerned on many issues, it is clear that the amounts of profits can be distributed to make sure that they are actually profits and other measures are introduced to speed up liquidation. In other words, we see an attempt to introduce a clear framework with rules, by codifying legislation that will boost business activities which have been concerned with the bureaucratic processes of the past. We have heard important comments at the previous meeting in the participants' effort to contribute and further strengthen the draft law and make this in line with technological developments and worthy of supporting entrepreneurship. Simplifying the process of setting up companies, simplifying procedures for the licensing of management companies and simplifying the targeting process for small and medium-sized enterprises, we hope to make the creation of new companies, new jobs and, above all, further development and optimism of citizens and investors, and we look forward to the incoming provisions to strengthen and further shield business activity in our country. The Independent Greeks support the bill of the Ministry of Economy and Development, because we believe that growth should not be disrupted or prevented, but achieved with objective conditions, with clear public and private sector limits, with the protection of foreign investments, with less bureaucracy, sound public finances, access to a healthy banking system and the capital market and a equally important stable tax environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr. Lazarides. Mr. Amyras has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law on modernising rules for public limited companies is a necessary draft law. Yes, indeed, since 1920 there has been the law governing S.H.I.E. As far as the criticism I hear is concerned, "A century we have done nothing?", I answer yes, because good law holds forever. We are taught by the Americans in particular. Their legal, tax arsenal is all five laws since their independence. It's, like, a law, fat, a century. So, in relation to the argument 'previous', I would say 'who else?'. Are we talking about 1920? About Venizelo? Who are we talking about? It's not entirely true. However, despite the fact that I disagree with the urgency procedure - we have also talked about it in the previous committee - it is good that we are being squeezed away by strangers now and then - I do not know whether Mr Psarians agrees with me - to do two, three things that need and need to be done to give a better way to the economy. It is also good that you accepted the parliamentary amendment tabled by four Members, Mr Theocharis, Mr Katsiantonis, Mr Panagoulis and myself, to protect small shareholders. We have in front of us a tangible and realistic example of a Greek company which is having problems and, unfortunately, the cold of the bouquet will basically be subjected to the small shareholders of this company and, from there on, the difficult ones are beginning, not for the bill, but for the overall climate. Today we are discussing a draft law on anonymous companies when - I remind you and who to forget it, but I do not hear many people reminiscent of it - we have capital controls in the economy. This means that we have bank borrowing with the dropping point, and if, it means that Greek exporters face a thousand or two problems beyond the rest. It also means that this draft law alone cannot solve anything about hard bureaucracy and corruption - the little one and the big one - that you meet with anywhere like the pigeons on Syntagma Square. Furthermore, it is not possible for this draft law to push justice at a faster rate. Greek justice is slower than death. First he dies the one who appeals to justice for his case and then the decision comes as a memorial instead of a stalk. It also means that there is no sound and stable investment climate in Greece. It is only because we are discussing at the plenary session the pledge that the country puts against creditors, through the supergovernment, the state property of EUR 25 billion, means that the investment climate in Greece is at the limit of acceptance or not by foreigners. Who will demand a pledge from an economy, state property, only if he considers that this economy is blowing the globe. Now, I come very quickly - and I will be very brief, because we discussed them in detail in the previous committees - in some articles. With regard to Article 9, I, too, insist that we have developed this a great deal and that during the audit and when we set up a company and company changes we should be inspected by a body. We said GEME, the General Commercial Register, instead of the three anticipated. I will not analyse my proposal because you know it, Minister. I've told you too many times. Articles 20 and 29 concerning the payment and certification of share capital and a reduction of capital, which are, in fact, linked to the parliamentary amendment that we tabled for the protection of small shareholders, are part of this protection grid. I've told you what my objection is. I would like to say at this point that the reduction of capital should be particularly stressed that any reduction in share capital that is not carried out proportionally to all shareholders should be prohibited. This is of great importance, as is also not allowed, since on the expiry date the company's working capital is or tends to become negative after a capital reduction. That's what I think is reasonable. With regard to Articles 59-74 on bonds, what will be the publicity guarantees for the Bond Register? I want an answer to that. Furthermore, as regards Article 93 for the minutes of the meetings and decisions of the Management Board, it is appropriate to expressly provide for the procedure for ex-judicial challenge at GSM level and the register of public limited companies. To avoid the many courts, to say it like that. Now, with regard to Article 102, we propose that the members of the board of directors should be allowed five years instead of three years to waive the company's claims against a member of the board of directors, because usually the scams - to say that - sometimes some members of the board of directors are doing so, the company learns them after a certain period of time, usually beyond three years. Therefore, the amounts are high, the infringements are of a malicious nature because of the high amounts. I therefore propose that the limitation should become five years, instead of the three years we have now. Finally, in order to resolve the company by divisive decision at the request of the legitimate interest, that is to say Article 165, I repeat that it must remain the duty of the Minister to apply automatically for a solution in cases of public limited companies active in the mining industry or in the harvesting of primary forests. Finally, with regard to Article 175 on foreign company documents, what will apply to third country companies after the adoption of this draft law? Tell me, for example, what publicity and disclosure obligations there will be between Greece and Panama. Not applicable. So, what's our security test? We are talking about the Panama Papers, we are talking about tax havens, all these strange holes outside, underground, underwater, space and others. Here I want you to tell me practically how to protect ourselves against such countries. That's all I wanted to say. We're going to vote on the draft law. I am also waiting for the answers, Mr Minister. For the rest, I also made an economy of time, Madam President, five minutes. You'll keep it to me for another speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u64	Thank you. Last speaker is Mr Cavalellas from the Centron Association. Mr. Cavalella, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, with today's draft law on the reform of the anachronistic legislative framework for public limited companies, there is once again the sloppyness with which the government is dealing with the business. It is therefore a hundred and ninety articles, three hundred pages available with the minimum time allowed for the urgent procedure. And as if that were not enough, you'd brought 90 of the legislative improvements that contain more than two thousand words one hour before the meeting. It's a race for something that's prerequisite. It is true that streamlining the functioning of public limited companies was necessary in order to give a breath to many businesses, as for the last ninety years, Law 2190/1920 has been subjected to too many patches and fragmentary amendments aimed mainly at addressing specific problems. That is why the way of legislating had to be dealt with more seriously than this government, how much more so when it circulates that it wants to prevent other bundles in businesses and when it knows that the present draft law, which we are discussing now, is a Memorandumary obligation and should have been completed by the end of April. And now I come to the draft law. The first part which contains the general provisions and Articles 1 to 3 does not conflict with us. In the second part, Article 4 to 11, we have some reservations, as the logic of public limited companies is multi-participating capital used in risk management, which we do not understand how it can be applied to S.A.s. We are, of course, wondering whether this is proposed in the sense of shareholder control. The positive aspects of the draft law are the possibility of setting up public limited liability companies, as well as limited liability companies, if the model statute is adopted. In Part Three, Articles 12, 13 and 14, which defines acts that are subject to publication, we are generally positive. With regard to the fourth part, and in particular Article 15, where the conditions for the payment of equity are changed and the minimum threshold is increased to EUR 25 000 from EUR 24 000, you are welcome to do so since this Directive 2017/1132 does so. It will also bring some revenue, as is noted in the report of the General Accounting Office of the State. Another one that seems positive at first sight is the reduction of the nominal minimum price of each share to the amount of 4 cents of the euro, from 30 cents of the euro, which has been in place so far and is consistent with the new data of Greek society. However, if we look at the Athens Stock Exchange quotation of 8 June 2018, we will notice that only nine out of nine hundred quoted shares are negotiated at prices below four minutes. Of course, these values have no direct relationship of nominal value, in another category they are listed, other sizes represent, but we should probably consider for four minutes. In Articles 20 to 21, the reference for a substantial abolition of public control in internal capital payment procedures does not find us positive. In the fifth section, Articles 33 to 76, the most interesting may be Article 40, which stipulates that public limited companies may no longer issue anonymous shares and those already issued are denominationd as of 1 January 2020. However, there are business actions already completed in the context of anonymity, so the transitional provision of Article 184, which has also been mentioned by the institutions, should also apply to these provisions. The denomination of shares in general, we regard it as a positive measure. Although the majority's positive argument that it will work against black money and in favour of transparency, it should be accompanied by relevant samples of your Government's writing, which in this area has nothing to show in spite of the blurred revelations. In the sixth section, in Article 77, we agree on the definition of a maximum number of members of the Board of Directors of public limited companies, the fifteen members, and Article 109 on the reform of the remuneration scheme for members. Furthermore, in the seventh section, Articles 116-140, the possibility of taking a decision without a meeting and without the partnership of all shareholders is considered to be a positive sign, as the necessary flexibility is thus formed, and the conditions for the activation of the minority function accordingly. In the eighth section we are now positive with the provision of Article 144 to strengthen minority rights, which was missing from the Greek legal order, without prejudice to its application to avoid abuse, as has been pointed out by institutions. With regard to the ninth section now, we agree with the provisions of Articles 145 to 157 on the preparation and publication of annual financial statements. In the tenth, Articles 158-163, too, we agree and accept the general idea behind the additions that the distribution of profits to shareholders will be based on actual net profits rather than on any gains. In the 11th section, Articles 164-171, it is planned to speed up the winding-up procedure with which we fully agree because there were few cases of companies which had been clearing them for more than ten years. I'm going to make a typical example. It concerns the company "Thessaloniki 1997-European Capital of Culture S.A.", which had practically ceased to have transactions since 1998, it was supposed to be liquidation until 2012. We are also positive with the provisions of the twelfth section concerning foreign companies, which includes Articles 172 to 175. In the thirteenth Chamber now, and as regards the criminal provisions of Article 181, it may have to be recast in the last subparagraph, i.e. 'in no case (unlike the criminal law of Law 2190/1920) the infringement of the statute is not a criminal act'. Now, with regard to the latter part, we have also pointed out at the committee meeting that Article 182(1) has also been mentioned by other colleagues - there is the phrase 'for specific companies' which may result in something that concerns, I would say, specific anonymous companies that you have in mind and do not tell us, you keep this to us. And even though the matter has been raised with the Minister, he has given no answer. Ladies and gentlemen, everyone accepts that adapting company law to modern data was necessary to ensure at least transparency. There's other good evidence coming up. This is a flexibility in the state machine and a reduction in bureaucracy. Let us not forget that an enterprise - according to 'KATHMERINA' - provides the public with twenty-one taxes and reservations. However, modernising the legislative framework governing the Anonymous Companies and entering into force as of 1 January 2019 should have been the object and result of wide-ranging consultation, as it concerns tens of thousands of companies - over fifty thousand companies - and, in addition, being more responsible in discussing committees and not all the explanations, details and legislative improvements to plenary. I am saying this because there were too many issues worthy of attention, since, at times, a significant part of the framework law of the public limited companies has been regulated on the basis of Union directives, but in some cases the transposition of these rules has been made in a way that is in the hands of Greek law, but I could also say wrong. As the Central Association, we understand that business is of great value today, since no one is trying, everyone is going out and we are in favour of upgrading the business environment, so we hope that the provisions on the Anonymous Companies that will be voted on will form a substantial framework of incentives that will help to relaunch our economy. So because we do not want to continue the distortions and tangles of the past, but to give these enterprises an opportunity to develop more and for the benefit of the economy and society, we will vote'residents' in principle and on the whole with our individual position on the articles, which corresponds to what I have described above. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u66	The reason for this is the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development, Mr. Stergios Pitsirlas, for some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u67	I would also like to hear the speakers, Madam President, and take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u68	I've been told that you want the floor for some kind of legal improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u69	Not yet, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u70	So you're not gonna talk now, okay. So we start with the list of speakers. Mr. George Papaliou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u71	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this bill concerns the reform of the law of public limited companies. Anonymous companies are fund-raising schemes for business activities within the current financial system. The initial thought was that there should be a concentration of capital, but also a diffusion of the responsibility of shareholders, given the financial risks involved in financial transactions. The current institutional framework, as is the case with its subsequent amendments, is in many cases rigid and is not distinguished for language consistency or systematic coherence. It needs to be re-evaluated, extensive review, systemicisation of the provisions, clarification of disputed issues, so that the establishment and operation of public limited companies are transparent, through effective supervision and control, simplification, speeding up decision-making, but ensuring that minority rights are strengthened, that corporate capital is maintained and strengthened, that corporate differences are resolved more easily, but that the liquidation of the company is accelerated, that it is valued, that it is flexible, that the administrative burdens are dismantled, in order to enhance healthy entrepreneurship. Of course, the phenomena of the bankrupt enterprises belonging to wealthy entrepreneurs, who have enriched at the expense of their businesses, workers and traders, with them their competitors and not. In the regulations introduced, new instruments are provided for the financial and capital support of public limited companies, new more flexible decision-making methods, greater control over management bodies, greater transparency. These are expected to have a positive effect on market confidence in the Institution of the Anonymous Company. In fact, and because of the limited time, I will focus on some parts of the bill that introduce innovations necessary for the transparent and effective functioning of the Anonymous Companies in the current environment of rapid technological developments and globalised transactions. I will focus in particular on the abolition of anonymous shares. Ladies and gentlemen, the denomination of shares from 1-1-2020 is an important innovation, since the concept of anonymous shares is abolished. And so far, however, the transfer of anonymous shares has rarely been achieved by the delivery of the title, because of the practice of not issuing anonymous securities, due to the similar rules for the transfer of anonymous and listed shares, but also because of the tax legislation, which until recently imposed a document on their transfer, as well as a statement of profit from their sale. However, the explicit provision of abolishing the anonymous share removes any doubts. The issue of denomination is, in particular, linked to increased transparency, to the more rapid information given to shareholders and to the implementation of proposed regulations on warrants, the rights of shareholders, and to the updating of the latter through the blog. A justification for the anonymity of the owners of shares does not exist, except for the will to hide themselves. In addition, international organisations and last but not least the institutions of the European Union are calling on the Member States to ensure that anonymous shares do not become an instrument for abusive practices and for the risk of money laundering and other criminal acts in general. There is Directive 2015/849 of the European Union, which will also be ratified by our country, which provides for mechanisms to find the persons who are beneficiaries of anonymous shares, but also the real beneficiaries, namely those who are behind them. Apart from the abolition of anonymous shares, there are other equivalent measures, which, however, involve complex arrangements and are charged to public limited companies with many additional obligations, resulting in "informal fatigue" to companies. Finding the route of black money through well-known foreign companies and other schemes around the world is not an easy case, and of course, it can be questioned whether there is a real will for all these international organizations to reach the end. However, the denomination of anonymous shares is a principle. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is an additional vote in all the regulations that have been laid down and will be adopted in the near future. These arrangements simplify the procedures for the establishment, operation and resolution of public limited companies, reduce administrative bureaucracy and administrative costs, upgrade cooperation and trade with abroad, adapt the institutional framework to the new circumstances, to the international, European and domestic market conditions. They generally facilitate business activity. I would say that all this is the government's strategy on entrepreneurship, which is an important pillar of the country's development perspective. In this context and gradually, the institutional conditions for the country's promoted fair production reconstruction are being created. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u72	Thank you. Mr Theocharis Theocharis from the Independent Members has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Madam President. I intended to talk first of all about the amendment we tabled and I thank the Minister for having accepted it. And I have a feeling he's listening to the pulse of the market, he's put his hand on the pulse. We are currently living the drama of seven and a half thousands of small investors, who are obviously in a situation where FOLLI FOLLIE is involved, and I would like to believe that it will soon be cleared up, but above all, that there will not be any conditions for us to have such deceptions among the public again. In any case, this amendment - which was accepted by the Minister and I would like to explain about the Minutes and for the sake of the Greek people - is an amendment that helps to remove a question of conflict of interest between the members of the board of directors of a listed and the shareholders. What happens is that every year at each general meeting is defined as the sworn auditors, who are an audit firm that aims to check whether there are any problems with the numbers, with the balance sheet, with the management of the company, and thus make a report to the shareholders, telling them that all things are good or that there is the alpha or the beta or the problem with the so-called asterisks. However, in the event that a shareholder is also an active member of the board of directors, it is clear that it has two properties. In one capacity, the verifier shall check it as a member of the Management Board. In its second capacity as shareholder it is the one who designates the auditor. In such a case, the controller may not designate the verifier. Indeed, with the amendment, which has been accepted, this problem ceases to exist. And so, in this vote, the shareholders are not entitled to vote, since they are also active members of the board of directors. Thank you again, Minister. I would like to say that it is an amendment that came after a debate with the President of the Stock Exchange himself. I have taken the initiative to speak with him on this issue of the small shareholders of FOLLI FOLLIE. And in this debate, the thought came of making this amendment and trying to correct this problem. I would like to raise three other points very briefly - and I would like to draw your attention, Minister - mainly on the way forward. I don't want to look back at the past. We are making suggestions and I think it would be happy if you took them into consideration, as you did in this case. The first is that an additional safety net - and I hope in the audit bill you put it - is the categorisation of audit firms, as we have in technical companies. For example, we cannot give a technical company of the two people to make us the Athens-Thessaloniki motorway. So the audit companies of the two - as in this case - cannot control companies of the millions, tens of millions or billions of euros. Therefore, we should have categories of audit companies and, depending on the turnover, each undertaking should be obliged to raise a charge. Of course, ELTE could set the criteria for these accusations. The second proposal I would like to make to you relates to cases where companies are obliged - it has been incorporated into our national law of the directive by the European Union - to change every 10 years a company that controls them and to change the accountant every five years so that he does not keep an eye on them. The phenomenon has been observed for the vows to leave, to make false companies from the two people, to sign their partner, and in fact to continue this check, in order to circumvent the restriction of this law, by means of parables in fact. Give the ELTE the opportunity to control such cases and to be able to impose fines or take other sanctions and cast the books in order not to happen and to return the trust of the investment public, because we cannot expect growth without that very notion of trust. I close with an issue that I did not intend to raise, but because this bill also speaks of bankruptcy law and because I have a personal experience of companies that have been bankrupt, I would suggest, Minister, that the bankruptcy procedure should be quick and that the interests of people who are forced to be bankrupt and not all of their money will be protected. First of all, there is no incentive for the clearer to insist on inexperience for the liquidation to continue for an infinite period and to continue to receive his wages. In a competitive procedure, the price, the remuneration of the liquidators for the liquidation of each company should be stable so that they do not have an incentive to extend the liquidation procedure. We will never finish, as no liquidation ends almost ever, takes too many years.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u74	We've done it for three years.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u75	It's three years the top.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u76	Three years at the most, but I tell you that if the price at which the clearers will be remunerated for liquidation depending on the size of the company, there is no incentive. You don't even have to set a limit. They will end faster because this is the cost of continuing the liquidation process. Correct the motives and you don't have to put such limits on them, because then they'll come to you with extensions, with various issues. Secondly, clearers should make the first thing that will make them compulsory and within a very short period of time all the assets of the company, and then simply enter the process of sharing depending on where the company's assets should be shared, which have been converted into cash, so that there is no question of this being active management as if they were traders of some stock exchange companies or to discuss whether the value fell or went up. It should very quickly be cleared up and sold, converted into cash and from there on will be a very rapid winding-up process. Take these into account, as you bring the legislation, which is necessary and must be done, because growth cannot be achieved under company law in 1920. Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u77	Next speaker, Mr. Dimitriadis. I don't see Mr. Dimitriadis. Mr. Theocratic has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to refer a little more to the general point, to the forest. It is also important that we do not lose it, because it has been said enough in the committees and today in the specific case of the bill. With today's draft law, therefore, on the reform of the public limited companies, which we are voting on, all arguments are being rejected that SYRIZA and the government are opposed to, they are ideological with the company, with the proper functioning of the market, with the legitimate business profit. No, none of this applies, and this is shown in the order of the bills brought by the Ministry of Development. The EIA bill was preceded today by the S.A. Should we say what the agencies said, "remind"? Chairman of the Securities and Exchange Committee: "Very important intervention. They deserve congratulations," she says. The representative of the Athens Exchange said "a truly modern draft". The BSE spokesman, the 'excellent effort', the EUES, the 'positive draft law', the GSE and the Chamber of Economics, in addition to a number of comments, described it as 'generally positive'. Are we mutated or is something wrong? Oh, no. Everyone wants the market to function properly. Healthy professionals, healthy entrepreneurs want and agree, and this is what our government promotes, rationality, proper functioning of the market and business. There is a great difference with the distorting practices that have so far risen in the 40 years of post-multipleism and which indirectly but clearly, and sometimes immediately and irresistibly, have been supported by the two parties that have changed in power, New Democracy - PASOK, distorting practices that favoured state-owned entrepreneurship, which has been borrowed in air against the Greek people - these are what we are paying now with the negative measures - which has not been respected - and partly still does not respect as much - the rights of workers, which it has not been possible for the natural and urban environment. We, for the world to know this, are in favour of healthy entrepreneurship and have no ideal in this regard, provided that the rights of workers are protected. The right businessmen protect their employees. They must protect the urban and natural environment and the right entrepreneurs respect the environment. That is why we are ideological, and that is where we need, ladies and gentlemen, to target the whole political system, and let them be the starting point for bills like today, which bring broad political consensus. Should not the pathogens of the past be treated? It had become a rule, a system for poorly-intentioned entrepreneurs to leave - criminals - in public debt, in insurance funds, in banks, in workers, in suppliers and in the same way as money abroad. We are told by the workers, who are now unpaid, that they were collecting the receipts every day. We asked them why he hasn't confiscated the public or the funds or you? Because they were picking it up in cash. Unfortunately, the same model was followed in the public sector, i.e., schematically in the private sector in the Anonymous Companies, the poor entrepreneurs were rich and in the public sector the country went bankrupt and the civilian staff did not see anything wrong. Whilst, if the market rules work - and I say this to businesses - there is a reasonable reasoned profit. As far as the draft law is concerned, I will only refer to the two pillars: on the one hand, we have a simplification of procedures where procedures become more rapid, easier, simpler, simpler for entrepreneurs and on the other, transparency and control are increased, so as to protect the public interest, but without creating problems for entrepreneurs. First Pillar: Simplification of procedures. No checks on the declaratory acts. The establishment procedures shall be simplified. The one-stop shop, the one-stop shop, the one-stop shop, the one-stop shop, the one-stop shop, the one-stop shop, the one-stop shop, the one-stop shop, the one-stop shop, the one-stop shop, the one-stop shop and the documentation check. Ensure the name and distinguishing title of the AE, the allocation of the number of GEMIs and VTGs, and access to the services of ‘TAXISNET’. It is foreseen that, in addition to the notary, a private document may also be used. In fact, there is a relevant model. The technology is valued both by maintaining an e-book of shareholders and by an electronic vote at the meetings of the Board of Directors. and the General Assembly. The arbitration procedure prior to recourse to regular justice in accordance with the Statute shall be encouraged. Minority shareholders' rights shall be strengthened by establishing individual information for the forthcoming meetings of the General Assembly. For the first time, a single administrative body is planned for micro and small companies and a three-member body for the rest. I shall also refer to two very important measures that enhance transparency and the effectiveness of controls. This has been mentioned by the other colleagues and by our rapporteur, but also by the other political parties. The mandatory denomination of the shares of all listed and non-listed companies has been established since January 2020. All shares will be nominal, i.e., in other words, we will know their owner. This is an international trend aimed at combating tax evasion. So has our country and the whole world suffered from Panama and Paradise papers, from the laundering of "black" money and crime, because in the way of denomination the anonymity of shareholders and thus the substantial owners of the anonymous company is lifted. Substantial control is being established for the large companies which are, in fact, the largest part of the public limited companies in the country. So far this audit has been inexistent. Ladies and gentlemen, today, five years ago, on June 11, 2013, the Samara - Venizelou government closed down a public S.A., ERT. Today, June 11, 2018, and with a broad political consensus, we are opening the way for healthy business to all anonymous companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u79	Thank you. Mr. Chogas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this bill is a radical reform of the current institutional framework of public limited companies, bearing in mind that public limited companies are the main cooperative relations of the Greek economy and the more organised form of business. The need to reform the legislative framework governing its operation, ninety-eight years after the resolution of 2190/1920, was considered necessary in order for the public limited company to meet the ever-increasing demands of the modern world economy, while at the same time promoting a series of structural reforms to strengthen the growth potential of the Greek economy, which is the government's primary objective. The main objectives which the process of reforming and supplementing the law on public limited companies seek to achieve are to speed up the establishment, resolution and liquidation of the public limited company, speed up the implementation of business decisions, protect the minority partners, strengthen transparency, reduce bureaucracy and strengthen security for the operators, which is the prerequisite for a healthy investment environment. This draft law seeks to integrate part of European Directive 2017/828 in order to encourage the long-term active participation of shareholders, in particular with regard to the funds relating to the payment of remuneration to members of the Governing Council, in accordance with the provisions of Article 109 and the transparency and supervision of the transactions of connected parties. The operating methods of the company’s organs shall be modernised by means of a remote vote of boards and general meetings, as well as by electronic maintenance of the shareholders’ book, which, in accordance with Article 40, may be electronically maintained by the central repository, banks or investment firms. It is also important to provide for Articles 102 to 107 which regulate the liability of the members of the Board of Directors, in conjunction with the provisions laid down in the draft law, which stipulates that the liability of the Board of Directors is indirect and does not relate to third parties who have suffered direct damage, and that the common provisions, in particular the Civil Code, Articles 914 et seq., and the specific provisions of Article 98 of the Banking Code as applicable to Law 2190, will apply here. While Article 108 does not exempt the Board of Directors from all responsibility in the performance of its duties, but approves the overall management of supervision in general, but does not include individual acts or omissions that have been detrimental to the company. Furthermore, with a view to speeding up the liquidation, if the company does not have any assets, it is envisaged that the winding-up procedure may be omitted after the company’s resolution so that it can be done by way of direct deletion from GSM. Most important is the provision of Article 169, which stipulates that if the liquidation exceeds three years of the previous scheme, the liquidator shall convene a general meeting at which he submits a plan for the acceleration and termination of the liquidation. If the draft is approved by the general meeting, the clearer shall complete the management as provided for in the plan. If the plan is not approved, the liquidator or shareholders representing one (1/20) of the paid-up capital may request the approval of the plan or the appointment of other appropriate measures by the court, in accordance with the voluntary jurisdiction procedure, by not committing the court to adopt the proposal of the liquidator’s shareholders. It is also introduced by Article 8(2) that the unlimited and already unlimited duration of the company, which relieves shareholders of the need to extend the fixed term on expiry of the company, is hereby introduced. The company, having an indefinite duration, contrary to the legal relationships of indefinite duration, is not solved by a complaint, but in accordance with the provisions of Article 164, i.e. by a decision of the general meeting taken by an increased quorum and majority, by the declaration of bankruptcy and, in the event of the bankruptcy request being rejected, by reason of the inadequacy of the debtor’s property to cover the costs of the proceedings, as well as by a judicial procedure in accordance with Articles 165 and 166. In order to enhance transparency and to combat criminal practices such as "wrapping" of money, favoured by the acquisition of anonymous shares, Article 184 introduces the abolition of anonymous shares from 1-1-2020. The abolition of anonymous shares accelerates their easier transfer, while the disclosure of their claim facilitates not only its identification but also the identification of the persons who are the actual beneficiaries. In addition, the existing securities of public limited companies are retained, but the associated securities, which can be acquired or sold in combination, and the securities acquired by WARRANTS, which are already known in the banking sector, are also included. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Unfortunately, time is not an ally for reference to other articles in this bill, which one to one lead to the establishment and operation of the public limited company in a modern investment environment, without bureaucratic strangles and in a fully transparent and sound development regime, which will lead to economic leaps. Ladies and gentlemen, the new data on the functioning of the markets and international competition require the reform of the legislative framework for the establishment and operation of the public limited companies introduced by this bill, which is certain in practice to be a powerful weapon for the Greek economy and the Greek business world. By keeping the expression of our colleague "is a good piece of legislation", I urge you to vote unreservedly in favour of this bill, which updates the obsolete and anachronistic framework of commercial companies, setting rules of transparency, healthy competition and development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u81	Last speaker is Ms. Big housekeeper. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, almost a hundred years have passed since the resolution of No 2190/1920 - that is, we can do it as I see it - and a number of changes have taken place in the law of public limited companies since then, but we cannot overlook today the only real and fundamental revision of the law. In other words, it has had to take almost a century to make the necessary improvements to the law of public limited companies, improvements designed not only to better and simpler and more practical functioning of a public limited company, but also to resolve or even help significantly many more general issues of transparency. Similarly, it preceded a few days ago, as we know, and the law on limited companies, which brought about significant changes. Undoubtedly, anonymous companies in our country are a corporate form that both family businesses and super-costs prefer. Therefore, legislation should adequately cover all shapes. However, the bill to date was at least anachronistic and on many points contradictory and often difficult. I would like to add, because we talked about loans, that an anonymous company for borrowing - let me, because I have experience in it - should have put its own property, if it is. We see, however, that banks have been lending to anonymous companies several times, without having shareholders with their personal property to provide collateral. That was a big mistake and that is why so many loans were found and the banks so much lost, which we had to recapitalise. I would also not like to hear again, as we heard in the Committee of Inquiry on the loans of parties and SMEs, that they received hundreds of millions of loans, which they were saying - listen to - listen! - the witnesses that as a collateral, they put on a "air". I've never heard of that, that they're putting a "air". "Air to our sails" I know, but "air" to the loans I cannot accept. I must say that today's bill is one of many necessary and necessary legislation. I think it's too late. For example, we are now saying that the board of directors can be one-sided in some very small businesses. This amendment is perfectly logical. Because, as we know, small family businesses, where the owner is president and CEO, have been forced for years to put their relatives, their children, their wife, their mother, his father, to complete a three-member board. In other words, the two members have nothing to do with the company. In fact, it is a theater, which, with today's provision, stops and gives the companies a real solution. Also, the fact that not all of these documents will no longer be required is very good because they needed whole symbolic acts. It will suffice for a private agreement, which will be submitted to GFCM, as in other types of companies - homogeneous, heterogeneous. The bill abolishes a large part of bureaucracy and significantly simplifys the establishment of an anonymous company. Even the change of name S.A. It gives the signal of modernism, which was so necessary. Because the new provision allows the name to be fantastic or to contain an e-mail address or other indication. Of course, it would be a mistake not to mention the possibility of electronic meetings being attended by electronic means. It is a process that greatly improves the speed of decision-making, ensures a better quorum and especially facilitates shareholders who can participate from anywhere and vote. In modern times, where we have so many technological means and can we see far away, can they not vote? This possibility is being given, which is very right. And one of the important changes - most importantly - is the abolition of the anonymous share of 1-1-2020. Unknown, anonymous shares are often used to hide revenues from “lapping” black money and more generally from money from suspected, illegal sources. We already have a living example. The United States has abolished anonymous shares, in an effort to make the process more transparent, to combat the criminal activity undercover of anonymous shares. Also, an important provision is that which allows the company to resolve, even if the claim for bankruptcy is rejected as a result of a lack of assets. Especially nowadays, where it is common that companies should close down and have no assets, this change was necessary. To sum up, I do not think anyone can argue that the basic conditions for a country to attract foreign investment - that is, what is the big issue in our country - are five: the political and economic stability which the current government has achieved after many years of political uncertainty and economic shrinkage. Secondly, a functioning and modernised public administration, which has been targeted by the present government with many legislative initiatives. Thirdly, a secure banking system, which now exists, because we have recapitalised the banks three times. Fourthly, a well-designed development plan. And fifthly, in order to implement all the previous ones, a modern legislative framework in general and, in particular, with regard to businesses in particular. Today's bill is a small stone in the overall effort to relaunch the economy. Many legislative initiatives have been taken to stimulate investment, as well as an overall economic policy, which demonstrates that the country has a stable and secure plan for the next day. Today's changes to the law of anonymous corporations come to strengthen the image of the Greek economy and help entrepreneurship to pass on to the modern era we live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, too. Now I will give the floor to the Minister. How much time do you want, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u84	I will try to be very brief. Ladies and gentlemen, I will remain in the draft law on anonymous companies and avoid temptation to refer to the more general issues raised. After all, there is the debate on the plan tomorrow, and there is time and space for this debate. We are indeed discussing a very serious piece of legislation. Replacement of Law 2190 is very important. This law is one of the longest and not random. I wish the law that we are voting on today has the same duration. It is true that good laws are stable and must be stable. I therefore believe that an excellent job has been done by a group of well-established legal staff under Mr Perakis, a job that has taken a long time. The social partners have been consulted very systematically. We saw it yesterday in the committee, where the overall climate was a climate of consensus towards the draft law by the institutions, and I think it also appears in the debate that we are having between us. I also think that the debate that has taken place here has been very productive. Almost all of them have been very useful and I think that the fact that we bring so many legislative improvements is not a disadvantage. Instead, it's an advantage and it should be banished, instead of being considered to be doing something wrong. We have heard and accepted many things, and we have improved, as we have heard everyone, and we will do so for the next bills, for the transformation issues and for the reform issues of GEMH. I think that before the end of the year we will have a fully reformed company law, and so we will shape the conditions for Greek companies to operate in a much better environment. The bill has given solutions with a look in the future. In other words, for many years, for a long time, we will have a framework for the operation of businesses. There are issues and they have been described by the majority rapporteur, I do not want to repeat them. There are issues relating to the facilitation of operations, practical issues, the integration and use of new technologies. I do not think I need to analyse them. There are issues relating to the decommissioning of administrative burdens, for example, in the issues of controls, in the distinction we make in the acts, repressive and declaratory. But I want to stay on some central issues. A central issue in our debate here is the question of the need for effective controls. The phenomena are known to everyone, I do not want to make nominal references, but there is a matter. We must therefore think about how we will anticipate, in future, how to avoid phenomena that the Greek economy has lived through for decades. It's not a formal matter. We're taking some steps here. We'll finish them when we discuss surveillance issues. There are also issues which are solved in other laws - such as the control law - which we may have to consider here, if necessary, in conclusion of the institutional framework. With this bill some crucial steps are taking. For example, the possibility of having a legitimate interest in resorting to and asking for the solution of the company is very important. We all know that some very large companies have years to make financial statements public. It is illegal, but there is nonetheless any sanctions in practice. So this opportunity now is a very important step. There is another provision that has not been identified, and it has not been discussed. For the first time an obligation is introduced for the consolidated financial statements to be approved by the General Assembly. This is something that is very important, because it may be the key to controlling phenomena that we are working on during this debate. And I have to say that this has insisted too much on the service and its experienced officials at the Ministry, because from their experience they think that this will really be a large incision. It is also very important to strengthen the rights of minority shareholders. Finally, the fact that for companies of public interest and for large entities we transfer control to the Ministry is also important. I repeat that all this will be completed. Our mood is GEME, the registry, to be the main point. The register, however, needs to be modernised, to be able to play this role. As it is today, she can't play him. It must therefore be reformed so that it can indeed be the main station for the operation and supervision of businesses. But transferring these large businesses, as we say, to the Ministry's control is a crucial issue. Finally, there are some questions of penalties. The audits law refers to offences, but there are no penalties. We put it right now, just to fill a gap. We are talking about penalties for both the members of the board of directors, but also about the auditors. Regarding the members of the board of directors, it is right that the public limited companies today to function properly should have competent boards and therefore should not be discouraged from participating competently. This is why, contrary to what has been happening to date, the concept of shared responsibility is first introduced. He's in court's judgment. The courts did so in practice and there is a case-law in this regard, but until now the law was responsible for all of it. The criterion of division is now being introduced, and I think this is a very important step too. For auditors, too, there are specific forecasts. This was very useful, of course, in his experience, in the remarks made to us by Mr Athanasios. We've incorporated enough, because I think they're helping to make things clearer. This whole matter, however, is very important. I think we are giving practical and substantive solutions. This should be recorded. About denomination of shares, and that's what we're looking at in the future. The international trend is this: OECD studies, European Union directives, particularly 849/2015, which we will shortly incorporate into our national legislation. This directive is moving in this direction. It is understandable that there is hesitation. And from the operators' hearing, for example, it emerged that BSE and the capital market were in favour. I think we should anticipate exactly the trend and be with it and not with the past. Therefore, this is a decisive step. One issue which we have not raised and which we should have matured at some point and which we will soon have to resolve relates to the subject of headquarters, statutes or realities. So far, we're with the real seat. We maintain that. And because of a short time the issues of the seat of the companies are still very critical for Greece and for there to be no misunderstandings about this, which is why we have not raised it. However, this is one of the issues that should be dealt with at some point in the future and that should be dealt with more substantially. In order not to bore you any more, I am ending by saying that I think we are shaping through all the remarks and the debate that has taken place with a great life horizon, which solves many problems and gives real solutions. When we conclude this with the issues of supervision and controls, we will have the full framework, so that we can really say that in great issues that we are concerned with every day, we will have given solutions. An amendment was tabled by Members, which I mentioned at the outset. We make it acceptable to one difference: it should enter Article 124. Paragraph 8 must be added there, and that is precisely what I explained before. After the debate and the remarks made by Mr Athanasios, I still have a legislative improvement. It concerns Article 178. In Article 178(1) after the words ‘in breach of the provisions of the law’ the words ‘in their content’ shall be added. In the first paragraph of Article 179 also the words ‘up to one (1) year’ shall be replaced by ‘up to three (3) years’. I believe that this answers the issues raised in relation to these provisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u85	Finally, only one political reference will be made to a post which was invoked by a Member here on his topic by the investigation carried out by the relevant departments was that none of the information in the report could be confirmed. It wasn't possible. There isn't. If there's anything specific, let him testify. But at the moment it is not clear from anywhere that any of this is true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, too. We shall now enter the circle of parliamentary representatives. What have you come up with? Who wants the floor first?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u87	We haven't come to an agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u88	In the middle of the day.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u89	Do you want to, Mr. Treasury, why?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u90	If Mr. Xydakis wanted to be promoted, I wouldn't have had a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u91	Please, Mr. Dendia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u92	Then we follow the show. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on this piece of legislation has evolved in an exchange debate to a large extent legally speaking, commercial law, in a very calm climate. This isn't the usual in the Chamber. In any case, however, I would like to say to the Members of the majority and particularly to SYRIZA that for us in major opposition it is a day of peculiar brain joy. I'll explain, Minister. I am sure it does not miss you that capital companies were not created and as it happened. It is a legal tool that was created in the early phases of capitalism. It has been created for hundreds of years just to be able to combine, on the one hand, the protection of the businessman with the risks of business and, on the other, the concentration of capital for the purpose of obtaining, controlling the means of production. I'm telling you, I love how much you guys bring this bill. You bring it, SYRIZA, a party that theoretically proclaims in its perception of the world, the future, the society, the perceptions you have repeatedly expressed in this Chamber and the ownership of the means of production. So you come here to bring in and introduce a law on anonymous companies, the most capitalist type. And not only that, but the majority colleague, who has been in for a few minutes in Stepa, has called on us and so with a slight intensity to vote for this modernist piece of legislation. Of course, we have no objections. We'll vote for it. We shall be very happy to vote on it. After all, the Peraki Committee is a committee which has not been set up in the days of the present government. I found her at the Ministry of Development in 2014. In June 2014, I tried to speed up. Apparently, I didn't manage to speed up to the four months I stayed there. It took another two, two and a half years, three - how much has passed, because time has passed quickly on to SYRIZA - four. In any case, God required us to see this government bring the law on anonymous companies. In fact, if irony could be added to the stroke, first of all in our rapporteur's dialogue with the Minister - not in Ethiopia, but as I saw in the Minutes - the new Republic's rapporteur asked the government to maintain State control over the certification of the capital of the public limited company, and the SYRIZA - ANEL government went a step further and did not want the State to have control over the certification of the company's capital. No, the private sector triumphs. Get away from the state from the economy and the companies. Do not create such obstacles to business. So a great pleasure to the government! On the substance of the matter, I have no objection to the legislation. This is again expressed in the views of our rapporteur. He made comments. Several have been accepted. Although I have the duty of the Parliamentary Representative to avoid speaking legally - this is not the role - because the deformation professionelle always exists, I would suggest that within the many improvements made by the legislative group, Minister, the combination of Article 144 concerning shareholder associations, the possibility of creating shareholder associations with Article 182, the first of your transitional provisions which does not specify the prohibition of shareholders' contracts in listed companies. Article 182 shall indicate where the preceding paragraphs are not applicable. It does not mention - or I did not see it - the legislation of the Stock Exchange. I see an incompatibility there. I imagine that these can be improved even by a statement from the Minister in the Minutes, which can be interpreted in future as the statement of the legislator's intention. In any case, the truth is that the Perakis Committee has taken a conservative approach. He didn't create anything new. He tried to improve within the existing framework the functioning of Law 2190/1920, which, of course, is not a law of 1920. It's changed too many times. We are fed up with those of us who are entitled to put the various changes that have taken place in the corresponding 'type of Raptarch'. However, recoding and creating a modern text is welcome. What is not welcome - and has been said before - is the fact that this is not part of a framework. In other words, it would be much better - I would prefer that and I think that would be the right thing to do - in the whole of the legislation concerning companies, such as the amendment of the law. 3190, the limited liability company law, which came last week - Greek citizens are not required to know it - to have a single approach and not to come the legislation without being completely in touch with each other. In any case, however, I repeat that, because no one has to take a straight line, this is a piece of legislation which CSR has no problem voting on and will do so. Of course, I am not hiding that there is another counter-compensation here. Today we are discussing the law on anonymous companies, in reality outside this Chamber, this political environment is not determined by the law and debate on anonymous companies. Obviously it is determined by the plan, which was already being discussed in this Chamber in the committees a few hours ago. While the government is asking us to discuss the amendment of the law on public limited companies, in fact the Greek society does not deal with it, it deals with the reduction of pensions, the reduction of tax relief, the increase of HNVIA, with all that constitutes an extra very heavy burden on Greek citizens. Of course, I can only remind you that the reduction in duty, which had caused a Minister's statement in this Chamber, if it ever came under EUR 9 000, would have resigned. Of course, there is rarely a correlation between the words and works of the ministers of the present government. It's none of your business, Minister, it has nothing to do with you. But, in any case, it is good to observe it. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to be upright and not consume your time. The Greek economy is facing great problems. In my opinion, the major problem of the private sector in the Greek economy is red loans. There has been no way of dealing with this huge problem. I would remind you that red loans are currently more than EUR 100 billion. With the exception of the Italian number, which has different quality parameters, it is the world's largest equivalent debt - I repeat, the world! (ii) about half of the Greek banks' portfolio loans, where the internationally accepted average is about 9% less. You understand the 9% difference with 50%. Therefore, if the government wants to be proud of an achievement in the private part of the economy, it must work quickly to address the problem of red loans. This problem has not been addressed by the government. We have tried to raise her directly since the beginning of her term of office in 2015. It did not follow the legislation that we passed in 2014. It didn't improve while it had to be improved. It did not complete it, and it had to be completed, because what appeared to be voted on was one third of the legislation because of my disagreement at that time with the Minister of Finance, Mr Hardouvelis, but this was bound by nothing in the next government. In any case, if the government really wants to serve the Greek economy, it must take serious care of the issue of red loans. It should also quickly reduce public debt to the private sector. I do not deal with the further, such as reducing the level of insurance obligations first of all by legal persons, namely companies and natural persons, and reducing taxation by 3% from 29% to 26%, without reducing the advance, without reducing the dividend tax. These are clearly a drop in the ocean and indifferent parameters. The Greek economy is in an initial phase of anemic growth. This phase must be strengthened in every way, and this is not only institutional legislation, which is very relevant, but also substantial interventions in economic matters, which the government, for its own reasons, obviously to us, cannot be seen from it, does not seem to be in the mood to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr. Dendia. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, twenty-one students and students and three educational attendants of the Arnaia Halkidiki Municipal School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a very brief position on what is concerned with Greece these days and relates to the resolution of the problem we have with FYROM. I want to repeat it for the third time. On Friday I told this Chamber for the first time yesterday in a public presence for the second time. It is very common in recent years that phone diplomacy and may be - is not always - and useful. In this case, however, from what we are learning, which may not be precise, the particularity that the National Representation will be called upon to ratify an international agreement on this subject after a long time, perhaps even years, is causing too many problems for us, which we do not know in recent months. We hear that with these phone calls we can also end the matter and think about it being a political misconduct - and very serious - to end a matter that binds the country and we, as National Representation, have to say 'yes' or 'no' after a number of years. This may involve cutting the problem and creating issues. I have nothing more to say nor do I want to anticipate bad developments. On the contrary, we, as a Democratic Integration, but also the Potami, want to have positive developments. I must say, however, that it is alarming. We are also concerned - it is well known - that the communication of a Prime Minister with the Prime Minister of FYROM today, accompanied by the information that he will be following new communication tomorrow, but also an interview of your government partner, majority officials, who will give a press conference on this issue tomorrow. These are unpleasant things about a governmental pattern and degeneration phenomena. We are talking in a really calm context about the reform of the law of public limited companies. However, a few hours ago, before the plenary began to deal with this matter, we heard Mr Tsakalotos doing sermons from this step, speaking for twenty minutes and preaching the European word to the National Representation. The inspiration, the author of this renowned memorial came here to make us the European Parliament, firstly, the one who said to vote 'no' in the referendum, the one who ran around the House and outside the House his sermons about his degrees in economics, which do not allow him to think about how the removal of liquidity from the market can be a means of overcoming the crisis, the one who is now proposing a draft law, which, as far as his insurance data is concerned, is subtracting from the market and further resources. In any case, a little shame does not hurt politicians, especially those who make cucumbers of this intensity, both forwards and backwards. A little modesty and a little symptom when you address the National Representation always helps the ministers of cubism, as well as politicians in general. As far as the draft law is concerned, I agree with your approach, Mr Pitsirla, not to change all Law 2190/1920 and to go to these individual, of course, interventions. That is right, because the proposal to change all would create a lot of problems in the run-up to the case law which has been in place for some eighty years now. I have recently happened to stand trial for a very simple issue of the management of companies and on a clearly logical issue of the existence of a massive case law of the Ice Bay, in which any small change of yours might lead to a dead end, namely to apply. It is, therefore, right to resolve individual interventions, even though there are too many of them. I would, of course, like to see, because we are going to vote on this draft law, and I could say to those who share this with us. I want you to know that, many times, we are being blamed by the citizens who are in the company, especially the new ones, because we have not been adapted as others - not like 'others' - to be done through the computer of the interested party's computer to establish his anonymous company. Especially those who have experience from the United States tell us this: Why did they do so and we cannot do it? Why would it cost, at least small, what it is today, but why would it cost? It would really be a huge change if that were what we could have done. Of course, we're not overreacting. Today, ladies and gentlemen, if a citizen is very interested and his lawyer is also good, in five to six days he has also taken a VAT. I mean, it's not too late. These steps have been taken. However, if we could provide the citizens with this computer for electronic information on the creation of their company, I think that it would really be a very big change in the field of anonymous companies, which, now and then, this draft law and our legal order, are not anonymous. I don't know why we're holding the title, and if there's any legal feasibility we're holding the title of the anonymous company, but it's no longer anonymous. Since its birth, in the early 17th century, I think of the Dutch, if the information I've gathered...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u95	The golden century of the Dutch. The inventors of the EIA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u96	Yes, the anonymous company, in 1602, with the famous Dutch East Indian company. Through the centuries of the formation of this company, we come no longer to be anonymous. Because I was informed by Mr Karras in committee that, from the quoted - very few, ten - twelve - they maintain the anonymity of the shares and for reasons of transparency and for reasons of transparency, not as an economic virtue, but in relation to organised crimes and so on. The shares are denominationd. Now we are keeping them anonymous perhaps because some countries have not embraced the model you are appalling, to do away with the possibility of existing and anonymous shares. Simplify corporate everyday life. That's a truth, and the National Representation accepted it. I agree - by disagreeing with the New Democracy, perhaps with my colleague Mr Karras, who has kept a reservation on the issue - with the removal of administrative obstacles, such as the administrative control of the Minister of Development. You do well to remove it. Of course, this doesn't fit much with the political philosophy of your space. It is a stranger, and I agree with Mr Tindemans, who has made the relevant remark on all the principles of the matter. In a way you always express yourself in favour of the institutional guarantees of controls, as much as the reality insists on telling you - and telling us, Mr Athanasios - that the many guarantees lead to what we call the 'grass', so delays and in the mediterranean measure with 'fasts'. So the removal of obstacles to the issue for me symbolizes the need to remove the state from the economy and this will help the difficult hours that the Greek economy is going through on economic growth. I was concerned about the procedure. Of course, my concern was annulled by the fact that there were not many Members who were interested in taking the floor. However, I said that if many colleagues were interested, we should have more time for the ninety articles contained in the draft law. It is a great deal of work, very serious work and because I know from legal experience how much problems are created by wrong wordings on which legal arguments are based and the judge is inconvenienceful, but the parties are inconvenienced, I would like to give you something. The ninety-one technical interventions - which I have seen, in fact, most of them are technical - do not hide, except in one or two cases, new arrangements which you have brought them to the last minute, that is, legal intervention - I cannot tell whether they are in the right direction or I have taken the trouble of confronting them. I am doing this because I fear that if I say yes to him, who in the first few years will read the Minutes - because the Minutes after some years are not read, I am talking about the rulers who are the first years looking at the Minutes - an agreement we have reached on these matters would mean that the reproach we are Members of Parliament, whom you have today brought 90 interventions. I have reservations. We are voting on it, and we have no question of it. However, to the person who reads the Minutes I want to find out that we felt weak to see how your arrangements are shaping. And I take the initiative, if you have intervened somewhere, and I do not know it - it is not bad, it is good - by looking at the opinion of the Directorate for Scientific Studies in the House, to tell you, as I have told you during the debate on the procedure, that it has many - but too many - language interventions, technical interventions and various forms of interventions of this kind. I imagine you've seen them and some of them. I insist that you look at Article 17 carefully if you did not make it. I saw the wording of the document you shared, and I did not see this matter resolved. Here you have a divorce. The first subparagraph of paragraph 3 shall stipulate that a valuation report shall be drawn up by two sworn auditors – accountants or, where appropriate, by two independent accredited assessors. Are you involved in this? It tells you that you are not saying what is the case with one and in what case the other. Immediately after that, you set out some implementing conditions in Article 18, but you do not say whether they are cumulatively or diagnosed. And Article 177, which provides for criminal sanctions, provides for criminal sanctions - and rightly so - but also for provisions in terms of wording.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u97	We've made it right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u98	Did you do them later?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u99	With the old ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u100	You've done them before. So the Article 177 issues are solved. I wish! In Article 99, too, it makes you a very serious comment. If your colleagues are in charge, I would like to read it out with her, too, to close my intervention. It therefore states: ‘Since the proposed provision repeats the wording of the directive on clear definition of types of transactions and on national legislation on specific treatment and adequate protection of the fair treatment of shareholders and corporate interests, it is attempting to incorporate into national law the above regulation without, however, specifying in a specific way, if any, specific criteria based on the law, or on the establishment of a relevant legislative authorisation, certain types of such transactions, without, in any way, having an explicit reference to relevant legislative provisions’. Look at it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u101	Mr. Xydakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Madam President. I will agree with the previous speakers and the rapporteurs and, in particular, the parliamentary representatives for the productive atmosphere, for the productive climate that prevailed both in the committee and in the plenary during the introduction and discussion of the draft law on anonymous companies. I think it is a continuation of the previous law on companies with limited liability and by this ongoing modernisation of commercial law for a 21st-century trade fair and not the beginning of the 20th century. Indeed, together with the law that has been put in place for private capital companies, we can say that we are moving in a context that listens to the needs of the market, which listens to the needs of the modern economy and the needs of professionals and entrepreneurs, and is creating a framework for entrepreneurship more operational, which serves the economy. Of course, we heard from Mr. Dendia the story of this law, that starts in 2014 with the Perraki Committee and takes us three to four years to complete. I also think that this reform of commercial law has been put to the table by creditors as a violent modernisation. And my political question is: How was this economy moving without modernising the legislative framework, the operational framework for companies, to the extent that this big law with the 190 articles is actually a codification and modernisation? It is not a radically new commercial law. So we have a 1920 modernisation by the government of Eleftherios Venizelos - yet again, the progressive, liberal party undertakes to modernise the economy in the country - and a conservative party that is more or less in a cocktail, socketing shop or parasitic capitalism. And there comes a progressive governance to modernise even the terms of a ruled capitalism, with laws and with potential for substantial growth. The memorials of the remembranced Constantine Mitsotakis who remembered in the 1950s were taught that one of the basic tools for policy on the treatment of inequalities was the mechanism of the rhysphetium. He also charged socialist mums with Constantine Karamanlis. I'd call the Holy Papalegura too. He'd think he'd be an extremist socialist. So we see, as the 20th century unfolds with wars, with catastrophes, with various political plans, a great historical tradition in the 20th century trying to modernise both the economy and society and another great political tradition, the conservative tradition, to be closed in the introvert and the narrow division of power, in the poor, but little Greece, in the logic of the house, in the sense of not opening any horizon and not opening any possibility. And under these conditions, and with these returns, we reached the historic point of 2010, when the country boasted in itself and found itself having a status of debt, a loss of national sovereignty and an anguish in the entire Greek population for where it was going. I hope, along with the reform, at least under pressure, that we should have had it on our own for decades, followed by further reforms, followed by a wide-ranging reform of the system of justice and justice, which devours citizens, businesses, economics, families and households every aspect of social life. When the famous cleansing from the administrative courts does up to and including two and a half years, what can that mean to society, what can that mean for an economy that has boasted, went bankrupt and waits to get ahead with another horizon and other rules? When the average arrives to finalise a case in civil and administrative courts about five years, on which terms will economic reconstruction be made? I think it is a debt of all the forces of Greek democracy, of those forces who believe in democracy, who consider themselves to be accountable to the perpetrated Greek people of the crisis, to give a solution either through constitutional revision or through other tools. Mr Theocharis said earlier on about how auditors operate, that auditors self-determine through virtual companies and control the same company and give them the well-known certificates of proper control of their budgets, and we reach the " bubbles" that break down and cause huge damage to the economy as a whole. Let us see together - Mr Theocharis said so - and the status of liquidators has been heard in this Chamber - who professionally do not clean up the companies that they undertake to clean up. Let us see the status of bankruptcy judges, who, against fat pay, sell and dismantle huge assets without actually having control of them. The way in which the rapid deindustrialisation has taken place over the last thirty, forty years through such institutions. And let us see that a national strategy for the country's economic reconstruction must take into account that the whole economy today is an open system, subject to great external forces, to great external pressure. The connections are international, you cannot draw up an autonomous economic policy, a purely autonomous economic policy. But we also need to see the relationship between economic policy and economic policy. You cannot submit to the more prosperous economic powers, you must express the needs of society, the needs of democracy, the needs of the democratic institutions that are being put in the hands of the citizens and the difficulty of believing that democracy cannot protect their social and natural rights. And these are essentially the great tasks and responsibilities for the political system in the years of the crisis and the years after the crisis, which will be just as difficult from the point of view of fantasy, fertile policy, new compositions and new ideas to be expressed. For some common findings and some compositions when we have to deal with technical, institutional, regulatory frameworks, I hope that we all understand the need for them to be done and be done in a way. He's not someone who's gonna take the laurels himself. All the legislative body, all the democratic arch is convinced that something needs to be done. The rest, the petty liability yield, or the county or the rabies to be in power and say how much we did is in second year. The historic moment is critical. After eight years, in August, it typically means a first step. For me it means a first step for a long, painful and extremely demanding course both for the Greek people and for the institutions and for the political forces that are legitimate and accountable to the people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, too. Mrs Zaroulia has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u104	At the moment we are discussing the bill here, which is a European directive, Tsipras exercises the greatest violence on the Greek people. He gives his soul, our Macedonian name, to the Skopje. No one's given him that right. Before I refer to the bill concerning anonymous companies and because it has made us extremely tiring to be overreacted by you people from Marx, Lenin and Trotsky - without, of course, the Bureau intervening as it intervenes with our own MPs - and to squeeze our fingers often densely with exiles and to blame us for various things, such as that we are the followers of violence, that we are the knifegrowers, the criminals, the killers, I have to say a few things about the so-called constitutional bow, so that our compatriots who are following the name and the favour of us. Because, as you know, the left is the sacred cow in Greece and no one creeps out that the communists today rule the country, those who slain us in the gang war. The Left has no history, it has a criminal record, and it can be very easily understood when it sees the list of the dead left by the Communist neck. Whole account of the red terror is as follows: Soviet Union twenty million victims, China sixty-five million, Vietnam one million, North Korea two million, Cambodia two million, East Europe one million, Africa one million seven hundred thousand, Afghanistan one million five hundred thousand, International Communist Movement and communist parties that did not hold power, such as the Spanish Communist Party during the three-year civil war of 1936-1939, the Communist Party of Greece during the three rounds and more, ten million. These figures include various ways of extermination, such as individual and group executions, deaths in concentration camps, as well as victims of starvation imposed by the communist state, as in the case of Ukraine’s Holodomor holocaust, where six million people, known as Holodomor, were exterminated in the years 1932-1933. The crimes of communists committed in Greece must not be forgotten. These must be taught to our children at school, but those of our compatriots ignore them. For their treacherous role in World War II many know, but many try to reverse it in a revolutionary struggle. The truth is, however, that the communists killed more Greeks than enemies. Below I will quote just a few testimonies from the criminals themselves of the Communist Party of Greece EAM-ELAS, as the concierge of EAM-ELAS Stefanos tells us. "They were ordered to strip them and then put them on the ground and to bend the head on large stones that had disguised outside the refinery of "ULEN". Then I took an axe and gave them an axe back to the head, and if I didn't make them the first one, I gave them a second and a third, until they rained them down. Other lads, such as Joganakos and Macaronas, were stabbed in the heart and then another turn came. When I was tired, someone else took my place." Another testimony: "The Democratic Army attacked at night, surprisingly in villages and cities and took uncontrolled boys and girls, even if their mouths smelled milk. The mothers hid their children in the nuts, in the booze, but the rebels found them and took them to the mountains. From the sunset of their home, from the mother embrace, from fatherly care, they were in a cold ambri, snow, cold mountain air, hunger. And the Democratic Army had to fight with them. At the meetings we held in the various departments with the women responsible for the battalions, the brigades, the brigades, we learned that the young girls of the 13, 14 and 15 years old, who were recruited, untrained and untrained as they were, were killed in the first battles we were sending them. The “over” command - from the General Headquarters - was to condemn them all to death. We were expected to fight hard, we had to stop all this, we had to punish hard for example and intimidation." That's what the captain and judge of the Democratic Army, Margarita Lazaridou, says. Tree of Tatarna: In the dreadful abyss of Tatarna Evrytania, more than 3,000 people from all of western Greece were thrown alive. The barbaric was under the supervision of the antiquated communist Thanasis Clara or Mars Velouchiotis. Fenos: About 4,000 people from all over the northern Peloponnese were murdered in Fenio Corinth. With his hands tied to the back, he was taking the knifes and the hits of the left-hand killers. And they were often thrown half-dead on the terrible savage. Taracas hole: In this barracks with the very narrow opening and the huge depth, dissidents of Molas and Laconia were thrown away. This was where the sadist evildoer Captain Kaloger, Nikos Latsis, was forensic. Stiaga: Alongside the genocide of Fenos, extensive massacres by ELAS and OPLA took place in the Stiagas area of Corinthia. Death of the Demetrios Psarros Constitution: In his attempt to destroy every armed resistance group outside the EAM-ELAS, he murdered the hero of Colonel Dimitrios Psarro and three hundred of his men, 5.42 Evzone Constitution. The men of the Psaros were brutally tortured before they were slaughtered. Ayonori: In the summer of 1944 the massacres were intensified in the region of Argolidocorinthia. Identified of crimes, the comisar of the Communist Party of Greece Dimitris Andreadakis. Professional butchers, Dimitris Kouros and Kostas Houtas, were charged with committing the massacres. With the synergy of Captain Gravia's members, the above by using their butapomacic knifes killed families, children and even three-year-old infants, such as Dimitrakis Raptis from Mideas. Epidaurus: In the area of Epidaurus, the rabies olive oil captain Letterias (Giorgos Lekkas) was established with his assistant Nikola Smyrlis. In the vulture of Kripiza Epidaurus, all-court families of our Greek compatriots, from Arachnaios and Agnuda. Melilla: The most inhuman slaughter of Greeks. After a hard battle the oilseeders slaughtered two thousand captives. Many were slain, others were thrown into a big stunk, others waited for their turn by watching the other captives belligerent. Terrible cries of pain were mixed with rotten people's lamentations, which the socks had to watch the killing of their own people. In front of the well blood lakes were formed while human members were scattered everywhere. When their turn arrived, the future deaths were driven into the stirring well. There with axes, farts and saws, they were slaughtered in the wildest and saddest way and they were flying half-death, inside. Since the months of the Communists, neither women nor young children have escaped. Gentlemen responsible for the most horrific massacre of Greek history...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u105	Mrs. Zarulia, will you say anything about the anonymous companies?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u106	Yes, at the end, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u107	When? What time is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u108	I have time. Please don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u109	You know, when you're not inside the subject, the president is rescinding in order. Please, get to the point, or you won't go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u110	But when they hybrid us, I don't see you rescinding anyone in the classroom.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u111	There's no one who's been abusing for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u112	Please, you're wasting my time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u113	I don't know exactly what you want. Tell us about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u114	Let it go, the Greek people will be judged.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u115	No, I won't leave you. You'll get to the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u116	I'll get to the point whenever I want. You have no right to intervene.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u117	He tells you what communism did.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u118	Did you become Mrs. Zaroulia's attorney? What do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u119	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u120	Listen to see, ma'am, you're a witness against the Golden Dawn in all cases, as if you were ever present. You'll let me say what I want to say. You don't have the right to do that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u121	There is the Rules of Procedure, which says that the speaker cannot move away from the matter under discussion, otherwise the President invites him to return.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u122	I'm not a speaker. I'm a parliamentary representative. I can refer wherever I want.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u123	If he doesn't comply, the President warns him he'll take his word off.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u124	I'm a parliamentary representative. I can refer wherever I want. Did you hear that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u125	If the speaker does not return after this point, the President shall take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u126	Ma'am...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u127	It's good to know what the Rules of Procedure says.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u128	I'm not a speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u129	A bill on anonymous companies is being discussed. If you have anything to say about it, please say it, or else get off the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u130	I'll tell you at the end when you let me finish. I'm not a speaker. I am a parliamentary representative and have the right to refer to wherever I want.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u131	Yeah, but you're on a specific issue. Everyone doesn't come here to say what they want. There are some rules. We're in Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u132	What are you talking about? Will you let all of us curse us and let me defend ourselves? Are you serious?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u133	Whose self to defend? Who accused you, ma'am? In a bill for anonymous corporations?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u134	Friday they called us stabbings here. Take the Minutes to read.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u135	The anonymous corporations are all talking. You talk about it, too. If you don't have what to say, get off.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u136	I'll talk to you at the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u137	Okay. There's no end to it. You're 10 minutes in the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u138	You guys take me away... No, I don't have ten minutes. You've eaten me five minutes and it's 15 minutes the time that has been given...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u139	I can remove your word. I read you the article. There's no room here to say what we think. There is a agenda.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u140	Does the Rules of Procedure say that we can talk? That's forbidden.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u141	Come on, say what you have to say, 'cause you're running out of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u142	What I have to say I'll say. Because you're sad about what I said...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u143	Very, yes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u144	...let's go to something a little more modern, because as far as I can see, you're going to democratically close my microphone because you're a very democrat. I continue: Murder attacks have also in the 1980s with the youth of the Communist Party of Greece and PASOK. We had gunshots in Kalamata with thirty-four victims. Many years before the Golden Dawn in 1987, there was the company of PASOK killers. Really, why didn't the PASOK leadership and all his MPs were imprisoned then? Elected Mayor of New Halkidoni Christos Papadopoulos killed his victims to grab their properties and he said he had an ideological background for what he did. Another murder, the one made by members of EMU, did not see the leadership of the New Democracy and its MPs being convicted and imprisoned in 1991. In 1990, in Heraklion Crete, in a speech by Mitsotakis, a bullet came out and found and killed the unfortunate Manolis Giakoumakis who was on a wall. That is why when we hear the word killer from the lips of the left-wing, para-stated, anarchist, terrorist syriars and others, we laugh too much, because for decades the left-wing propaganda has seen right-wing slapping as a crime and left-wing terrorism as a revolution. The construction of the left-wing virgins of the political scene is carried out by the memorials of their innocent victims, who are asking for an unreasonable right even today. Some of these ferocious murders were committed by anarchist para-states and hoodiers who enjoy the absolute protection and immunity of both the current government of SYRIZA and ANELs as well as the former New Republic and PASOK. On January 11, 1991, they burn alive by dropping molotovs into the building of the "Kapa Maroussis" department store, Yiannis Memetzidis and Emmanuel Kontopoulou. On 5-5-2010, they died of asphyxiation following the drop of a molotov bomb inside the Marfin Bank the Angelica Papathanasopoulou and her unborn child - because she was pregnant - on Friday Julia and Emeida Tsakalis. The victim list is far away. Another special category of our compatriots who are the recipients of the left-wing murdering mania are the uniforms, among them the special guard Sofia Psychoyou and the sergeant Antonios - Nektarios Savvas, who was murdered in Upper Patisia by the Rebel Sheche.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u145	Mrs. Zaroulia, you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u146	I'm not done!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u147	You're done. Get down. I brought you back to class, you didn't come back. I removed both minutes I had interrupted you. Time's up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u148	No, my time isn't over.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u149	Your time's up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u150	It's 15 minutes my time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u151	Mrs. Zaroulia, you can come down.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u152	Yes, call the Guardian.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u153	It can't go on. You cannot despise the Rules of Procedure, the pleas. Something has to be done. Get down. What do you want? Should I call the Guard?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u154	Yeah, yeah. Guard, guard!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u155	Do you like it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u156	I'm calling! "Stamp"!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u157	Do you want to make the heroine what the police call you? What exactly do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u158	Madam President, on a point of order Mr Kaklamanis had said...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u159	Hello?!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u160	...15 minutes the rapporteurs and fifteen parliamentary representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u161	Twelve minutes I've given everyone. There's no special...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u162	Oh, no. See what Mr. Kaklamanis said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u163	Every president is changing them?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u164	You're uninformed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u165	Come on, Mrs. Zaroulia! You guys are out of the question anyway. You should've gone down long ago. I told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u166	Madam President, Mr Loverdos had asked for what Mr Kaklamanis said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u167	Now, what does that have to do with the issue I'm asking? He speaks 12 minutes off the subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u168	For the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u169	There is no room for this in the House. You have to understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u170	Why do you do it selectively?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u171	What's your choice? Who spoke? Tell me one example!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u172	The other day, a spokesman from the JRC...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u173	The day before Today, we say, here. There is the theme 'Companies of Anonymities'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u174	At the time of your presiding...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u175	I won't have a dialogue with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u176	Well, I'll finish by filing out in the minutes a photograph of the son of Kufontina, who's dressed in the mountain uniform, holding a can.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u177	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u178	Because Mr. Koufantinas is topical. Today's the...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u179	Who wants to be seconded by the speakers for two minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u180	I, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u181	Long live the Republic!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u182	Mr. Athanasios has the floor for two minutes. From your position, Mr. Athanasios, or will you come up?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u183	If the lady's done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u184	The lady's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u185	I'm not finished, Mr. Athanasios. As you can see, I have been democratically removed from the floor. Democracy!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u186	Mr. Athanasios, you won't say who's done or not done. I just ask you if you want to speak from Step or from your seat.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u187	I shall speak from my position, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u188	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u189	I would like to stress, Madam President, in a report on a fine which was charged and then avenged by the courts with the Marinopoulos company. I shall refer to the documents that have been submitted - which are true - to those on the site here and I shall tell you the following: Indeed, in 2013, the IMO is controlled by Marinopoulos on the Government of New Democracy and a fine of EUR 1.131,756 is charged. The company to appeal to the courts, according to the law, had to pay a sum. If it was 40% or 50% it doesn't matter. It therefore submits EUR 500,000 and appeals to the Administrative Court to deal with the case. And that's what happened. The case is then dealt with in the Athens Court of Appeal and the fine is reduced by a judicial decision. I do not see the involvement of the then government of New Democracy and what it was doing with the reduction of the fine. None at all. It was a legitimate right for anyone to whom a fine is charged, to appeal to the courts. The courts have final judgments and the fine has been reduced. As regards the amendment, I would like to say: While I saw it positive, Mr President, and Mr Amyras, I have the following concerns: it says 'Natural person who has a share capital listed on the Athens Stock Exchange'. I mean, if I have shares in a listed foreign-country stock market, won't it? First of all, that. Secondly, he will not have the right to vote in the general assembly. The quorum? The quorum begins from the beginning. When a collective body starts in a company, the quorum is determined at that time. Will he participate in the quorum? Will the quorum be calculated and not the vote at the general meeting? I am concerned about this, and while the initial position was positive when I heard your proposal, with more careful consideration of the amendment, we will vote'residents'. The legislative improvements you have made are in agreement with us. It was our proposal, too. So in the two articles you've brought, the improvements, we're positive. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u190	Thank you. Mr. Vardalis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u191	Madam President, I had lifted my hand first...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u192	Raise his hand before you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u193	No, Madam President. I raised my arm first.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u194	I didn't see you. There is no now in this parliamentary series. In two minutes you'll get the floor. Here, Mr Vardalis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Madam President. We understand the fear of the offspring of the SS and the security battalions, the Golden Dawn fascists who are indicted for crimes, for murders, that they cannot digest that the red flag with the hammer was nailed in Reichstag, but they should know that the crimes of fascism, despite any attempts to revise history, are not going to erase with anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u196	Mr. Shahinides has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u197	The hard drives talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u198	Did I hear anything?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u199	The hard drives talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u200	The hard drives are talking, your brains are going to see when they're going to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u201	The facts speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u202	Come on! Come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u203	Madam President, respect the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u204	I'm watching him.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u205	...and bring him back to class, not to interrupt, because this custom has too many times the Parliamentary spokesman of SYRIZA, to succeed, that is, against others when speaking and interrupting the time someone is in Stepma. And you don't bring them back to class. That is exactly what we say, to apply the Rules of Procedure. With regard to what has been said by the rapporteur of the New Democracy, I would like to say: When you isolate a piece of the text that has been tabled - and thankfully I have tabled it in the Minutes and are also available to other speakers and rapporteurs - where he stopped and referred to the fine, he continues from below and says: "The authorities are returning in 2014 to carry out relevant checks on the books for 2011, 2012 and 2013." She mentions who the CEO was, a Mrs. Bonano. It states that the tax advice of a company, the so-called ‘PRICEWATERHOUSCOOPERS BUSINESS’, is in place at this point to find a better solution for the checks of the IORP, for the fine imposed and for the threatened fines on the horizon. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] This Mrs. Eleni Dura, the head of a legal counsel, provides services to "MARINOPOULOS S.A.", sends this e-mail to Jerome Louber, CEO, sends it to another lady and communicates it to Mr. Voyatzakis, who was for years of executive. What's he writing? He's telling them what the court's composition was like. And we ask why. The fun is that selective things have been reported. It was reported that the decision was made in 2015. But just two lines above it says that for the year 2014, which was checked, it seems that the company managed to escape from history at least cost. That's for Mr. Marinopoulos's specific story. In all references to the Minister's report at the end of his post, he said that there were checks. Minister, who was checked by? Did it happen from a corruption prosecutor? Because if it was made by the prosecutor of corruption and no evidence were found - the post in the newspaper "DIMMOCRATIA" is a surname, it is from Mrs. Panagiotou Maria - if nothing has been found from a simple check that you have done, tell us through which bodies of your Ministry this check was carried out.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u206	Finish, Mr. Shahinides.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u207	I shall conclude, Madam President. Otherwise another prosecutor should be seized for slandering. Since there were no oppositions from MARINOPOULOS S.A., to lodge complaints, I think, Minister, that the control you carried out was incomplete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u208	Do you want the floor, Minister? Otherwise we will be interrupting for five minutes so that the House can come up with the amendments before the vote begins.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u209	I wanted to make a comment on what Mr Loverd and Mr Dendias said. They're out of the hall now. Just for the record to say there's a misunderstanding to the term. The term ‘nominal companies’ does not refer to anonymity of the shares. They were still called anonymous because they were not mentioned in the name of the shareholder. That's why they stayed in history as anonymous. The second of the red loans, which Mr Denkias said, is indeed a huge issue. He said attributes that the government must resolve it decisively and quickly, because it is the crucial issue of the Greek economy. Red loans have come up somehow, though. This huge burden was somehow created. As far as business is concerned, a number of reasons refer precisely to the issues we are discussing. The fact that companies could operate with so many loans and such equity ratios is a pathetic one that we are trying to resolve. So when we go to talk about this, that's when we solve the problems and not with general references. I shall therefore conclude by saying that the bill is a very important attempt to modernise the law on public limited companies. The debate has shown the broadest consensus it brings together. I therefore consider it a huge step that will be completed with the next for transformations and supervision. I think it seems that we are moving forward in solving major outstanding issues, major problems. I would like to say to Mr Tindemans that we have indeed been loaded from the past with very great problems to solve them and step by step. I think he opposes an image that no longer exists. Now we have to talk about these. The government has gone to this stage and promotes concrete solutions for specific problems. The debate on this really shows that the margins for major disagreements are very little. There are things in Greece that need to be done and done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u210	Ladies and gentlemen, we will be interrupting for five minutes until the body of the bill is distributed to you, because there will be a vote on an article. Because there are too many articles, if you don't have...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u211	Let's not interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u212	What can we do? They need to complete it to give it to you. We're interrupting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u213	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. The debate on the principle, articles, amendments and the entire draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development is hereby declared adjourned: 'Reform of the law of public limited companies'. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u214	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u215	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u216	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development: ‘Reform of the law of public limited companies’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of articles and all, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u217	I would ask the House to empower the Bureau for its ratification of the Minutes in its entirety.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u218	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Monday 2 April 2018 have been distributed and the House is asking whether they have been ratified.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u219	The minutes of Monday 2 April 2018 were therefore validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-11-S1-commons.u220	With the consent of the House, the sitting is closed at 22.19.
