ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-16-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 15-2-2018 authorisation, the minutes of the GG's meetings, Thursday 15 February 2018, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Involvement of the Agricultural Insurance Agency into a Organisation for the Preferential Benefits and Social Solidarity (OPEKA) and other provisions’.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform the House that with the first number. 2742/1884/15.2.2018 Decision of the President of Parliament, as provided for in Rule 43A of the Rules of Procedure, Subcommittees of the Special Permanent Committees for the III Session of the Parliamentary Period were formed. This decision has been posted to Parliament's Transparency and will be recorded in the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-16-S1-commons.u2	I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House. [[They are announced to the House by the Secretary of Parliament, Mr Mario Katsi, Member of the Thesprotia, the following:]] A. REFERENCE OF REFERENCES
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-16-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Two questions will be answered today by the Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, Mr. Papa. We will begin with the first with the number 1079/13-2-2018 topical question of the second Athens Parliamentary of New Democracy, Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on investment delays for broadband. Mrs Asimakopoulou, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-16-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, last week's debate was postponed because of the confessed impressive journey you have recently made in the United States, accompanied by all the secretaries of your ministry, which included, apart from the formal - don't blame me for following you on social media, I'm watching you is my job, I can't do that...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-16-S1-commons.u5	Your obligation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-16-S1-commons.u6	So you posted too much social media against your recent tour in the United States, Hollywood, and from what I understand you are about to go see the launch of HELLAS SAT in Cape Canaveral. Meanwhile, welcome to Greece, where, unfortunately - I do not know if you have read - the Bloomberg misery index, we have taken up a place on the international ranking - from where we were in 2017, we are fifth in 2018 - and we are approaching, climbing up the first, which, of course, is your favorite Venezuela. Here, then, in misery, we have other problems. I know your wallet isn't the issue of Turkish challenges. However, if you would like and allow the Bureau, I am pleased to hear from you about Mr Magara's tweet, which says that the space possibilities that your Ministry is chasing and developing, are something that can help us face Turkish provocation. But, in order to land on earth, in the land that is fifth in misery, I have come to ask you today on another subject: how is your Ministry's design going to catch the goals of Digital Agenda 2020 in relation to the development of high speed internet connections? It's a matter that I've asked you multiple questions about. Since June 2017, we have been asking you about this and since November 2017 we have asked you questions about where the funding lies. We now read that, shortly before Christmas, a letter had been sent to Mr Magaras, which notes that these actions, the 'SUPERFAST BROADBAND' - you know what I am talking about, the EUR 300 million - as well as the 'CONNECTED ENTERPRISE' - which is about businesses, as well as the 'RURAL BROADBAND' - work carried out by the Samaras Government, and we have received a prize - they have not only been delayed, but essentially the whole design has been rejected by the European Commission and there are serious objections, with great risks, which cause delays. So I start with a basic question: what about this? In my dentistry, I'm going to be more specific. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-16-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mrs Asmakopoulou. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-16-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Asimakopoulou, I would like to thank you for the question. Let me tell you that the policy that we have developed in the space sector - because you have referred to the very critical issues of Greek-Turkish relations and the difficulties that exist at this time - is for peaceful purposes. This is the targeting, this is the policy field, although many times, applications are developed, they can have multiple uses. I would not like to go any further into this. That is to say, having our country's own, full system of microprocessors, which are made entirely from the outset at the Greek research centres and universities, is something that, I think, all the wings of this House are increasing its capabilities, displacement and the volume of information that it can actually collect. Obviously, in time, we will have the launching of HELLAS SAT 4, which will take its orbital position, which I think is another step, one more step, the country's overall recovery in an area in which, unfortunately, there was no care to have the presence, which it deserves. For us, Mrs Asimakopoulou, there is no other way than fair digital development. We also say this because we believe that if new technologies are not applied in such a way that they are accessible - and affordable - to all citizens, they can be the womb of new inequalities. I would like to reassure you and say this: The time when the country was in danger of losing European funds, which received letters of so-called heresy, which threatened that because there is no planned policy on our digital projects, we risk losing one and a half billion European funds, has passed. In order to become more specific, our communication with the ESDP Secretariat-General for Public Investment and with the ESDP managing authority and with the special state aid office and with the competent European Commission departments is permanent and systematic. We are, of course, exchanging letters and opinions on project planning. We were in the position of only having received a wide-ranging plan of twenty-five pages - that is what it was meant to have been approved, obviously no work had been adopted, no technical bulletin, no technical paper has been made, much more has it not gone to the services of the European Commission - which we had to upgrade for what reason? In order to be able to be compatible with the objectives of the European Union for Gigabit society. What do these targets say? They say that 50% of our households by 2025 must have at least 100mbps connections, which must be directly upgraded to 1 Gigabit connectivity, speed internet connection. With the existing plan, then, these objectives would not be possible to be captured. So we upgrade the targets, we upgrade the way the connections have to be made, and I will come to my dentistry to tell you details of the design. I would like to repeat, by closing my first place, that there is no risk very quickly, possibly in the next month, that the funds will also be used for the 'CONNECTED ENTERPRISE' programme, but also for the demand subsidy programme for households, which, with EUR 50 million, will grant the demand from the public investment programme and is, of course, redesigned rapidly, as the 'SUPERFAST BROADBAND' exchange of views with the European Commission. It is a process expected, it is welcome, and I would say to you, that it also enables the European Commission to understand what our priorities are.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-16-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mrs. Asmakopoulou has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-16-S1-commons.u10	Minister, from your answer, I can only conclude that your involvement with space policy has probably affected your whole world-view and the way you see the reality, because what you have told us has absolutely nothing to do with reality. You have referred to the removal of heresy, which is something that is 'peace' - let me - bore it. You've made two years to succeed in lifting heresy. This is entirely due to your delays, internally, to the way the Ministry was organized or rather completely insecure. After the heresy has been lifted, you are now coming to redesign this project. A project, I repeat, which is a EUR 300 million budget. So you are making a redesign, since you are also losing a Secretary-General on the road because of the lack of cooperation with the European Commission, because you do not think that we do not have contact with the European Commission. I worked in the European Commission for years. Both the site for what happens with the lack of design absorption and general alalum, which is currently happening at your Ministry, not only in this project, but also in other projects, for which I have asked you questions, while you were walking to Hollywood. You will also respond to the regional projects which are at risk of being lost. So don't tell us about the absorption of funds, when - I am now talking with data - the ESDP progress report in November 2017 says that the project superfast 'BROADBAND' and 'REGIONAL BROADBAND EXTENSION' has been completed, while the call is expected to be issued. When is this going to happen? At the end of 2017. It did not happen at the end of 2017. For “BROADBAND EXTENSION”, it also says for the first quarter of 2018 on page 21 of the exhibition. We're in mid-February and nothing has happened. You want to repeat what you just said? Because I think there's just been an announcement from you that there's going to be absorption in the month. You can't do that! It's impossible to manage it. So let's go to the December 2017 specialisation document. I read: Implementation starts in the third quarter of 2018. We're on the way. You've already said it's going to be the third quarter and now you're telling us it's going to be the first quarter? You refer to financing and absorption of funds from the public investment programme. What money and what public investment programme? We're not talking about this, Minister. We are talking about you losing EUR 300 million, which, yes, is about fair growth in broadband. But if you cannot absorb them, there will be no fair and unfair growth, but no growth, and that is the problem that we are coming to discuss here today. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Mr Magaras in his statements claimed that it was the tragic bureaucracy of Brussels. Really? You know, this is your job to deal with and I would remind you, Minister, that apart from questioning, I have also asked you to submit documents. And because we have to tell you truths at some point, I have asked you for correspondence, and I have also asked the company's handed over, 'ENOMIX', to which you have instructed to redesign, to submit what has been requested to the European Commission. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Your tolerance, Mr President, for one more minute. The objections of the European Commission are very specific, Minister, and if you do not know them, I will summarise them. It is about the fact that you do not justify the fact that the coupon is curing the'market failure', it is about the fact that you have not been sufficiently defended that the measure you are proposing is technologically neutral, that it is about the fact that you are not concerned with the development of infrastructure, which is one of the technical pediatric rules and whoever deals with Community subsidies from this fund, and knows that you need to focus on infrastructure and have to do with the question of whether you are addressing DIGICOM as to whether there are State aid. None of this has happened. It's impossible what you said. And I, because I'm always fair, if you want, this announcement that you made that in the month the absorption will be started, it would be good if you finally put it back. We, in any case, will not stop asking you for the documents to document what you are saying. Because the truth is recorded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-16-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mrs Asmakopoulou. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-16-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. I think Mrs Asmakopoulou either doesn't hear or do what she doesn't hear. What I said is that there is planning to absorb funds from the public investment programme, using the demand subsidy method, which can start in the next few weeks. And I repeat it. The 'SUPERFAST BROADBAND' project, of course, is redesigned in our discussions with the European Commission, but always so that we can catch up with the objectives that we want connectivity and the European Commission have set. For we have received a project which would channel all the resources available to the existing technology, the so-called Vectoring technology, which is incompatible with what the Greek Government wants, but also with the Gigabit Society aims. That's the simple truth. Now, you choose here as an opposition method to come and destroy and make predictions, as you did on digital policy, which are misguided, because digital policy has become a normal cosmogenicity with the start of project management. And give me here the opportunity to tell you that our ministry is now fully digitised. And the electronic handling of documents also works by six hundred public officials, who are in our Ministry, have the remote digital signature and everything moves within the computer network. We're receiving the documents, we're signing them, etc. This type of opposition, I think, does not help. You have to be a little more creative. So I repeat that not only will the projects proceed, but they will also be compatible with the rules and objectives of the Greek Government. I think we will be able to achieve what we say, 'bring tomorrow for everyone.' We will also have the Connected Enterprise with EUR 50 million, the creation of infrastructure in buildings by building internal fibre cables, the Superfast Broadband and the Rural Extension, which will be integrated into a EUR 350 million programme and EUR 50 million a year to boost demand. So that's the framework. It is a framework that can put us into the goals that we have and the EU have set. I would like to repeat that the forecast for bad news is something that has short feet. We would like you to tell us which authorities you would have moved if you were able to plan and implement a policy - and there, of course, we should also do our political controversy and confrontation. But the argument that this government has a management deficit falls, I think, in public control automatically, not only from the results itself, but also from your bad past, which is very difficult to forget, especially from those who have dealt with and have referred to digital Jerusalem.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-16-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr. Minister. That concludes the first question. There's one more left. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform you that with the first number. 2743/1985/15-2-2018 Decision of the President of the Parliament, the Subcommittee on Combat Trade and Exploitation of the People of the Special Permanent Committee on Equality, Youth and Human Rights was set up for the III Session of the IZ'. This decision has been posted to Parliament's Transparency and will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-16-S1-commons.u14	Mr. Carras, before we move on, you will allow me to read out the hindrances for questions that will not be answered. The question, under number 1139/92/13-11-2017, and application for the submission of documents by MP II of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister for Migration Policy, on the subject: "unjustifiable delay in the drafting and publication of the quarterly Reports of the Appeals Authority against the decisions of the Asylum Office", will not be discussed due to the absence of the Minister responsible abroad. This question will be retabled. The second question under number 1054-12-2-2018 is the first question of the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odyssea Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "Incorporation of sewerage networks and sewerage treatment projects Konnovazina, Levidi and Calliani Arcadias", will not be discussed due to the absence of the Minister responsible abroad. This question will be retabled. The first under number 1080/13-2-2018, the first question of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP, Andreas Katsaniotis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: “Havaluation and effects on coastal areas of Achaia”, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of the Environment and Energy, Mr. Famelos. The third, with number 1081/13-2-2018, a top-stage question from the Member of Parliament, Achaias, the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Creating a Healthy Landscape in Megalopolis", will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Minister responsible, Mr. Famelou. The fourth question under number 997/6-2-2018, in the context of a second question by the Member of Parliament, Mr Georgios Kasapidis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Addressing the recurring epidemic attacks of the insect of Lymantria dispar in Kosanis with biological methods", will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Minister responsible, Mr. Famelou. The fourth under number 1008/7-2-2018, the first question of the Greek Parliamentary First Cycle of the Independent Greeks Mr.George Lazarides to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Adaptation of the debt arrangements to PPC in social and economic reality and a specific provision in areas with RES", will not be discussed due to a workload of the Minister responsible, Mr. Stathakis. Athanasios Athanasios to the Minister for Maritime and Island Policy, on the subject: "Twelves of decommissioned ships and shipwrecks in the region of Port of Elefsina", will not be discussed due to a workload of the Minister responsible, Mr. Kourublis. It has also been sent a letter from Mr Kalogerou on these impediments. We're moving on to the last question for today. The second question will be discussed under number 1042/12-2-2018 in the second cycle of MP II of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the subject: "The need to restore the reduced postal fee for the forms of owners - journalists who are or may be members of the ERIC". Mr. Carras, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-16-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. The right to information and information is guaranteed worldwide, not only in Greece, but throughout Europe and worldwide. A means of strengthening this right is always - and the European Union accepts it, as it does not oppose competition - to subsidise postal charges for the movement of documents in order to obtain easier access and to get interested parties to this right to information, as I have said. In Greece, therefore, there is the grant of traditional forms. However, in the summer of 2017, by the latest law of the Ministry of Digital Policy in relation to a category of literature, those who are journalists owners belonging to the Union concerned, and for a fortnightly and monthly newspapers and magazines, it was abolished on the grounds that the OECD toolbox had distorted competition and therefore did not support the possibility of companies competing with each other. This, however, has had a consequence, Mr President, of increasing postal charges, while for all the other categories of the press it is still true. In fact, there is a contract between the Greek state and ELTA, where invoices are set and grants are awarded. He has brought the category of publications, magazines, fortnights and monthly newspapers, to minor degrees, which are traditional. We are talking in particular about local press, which we need because it is the link between the centre and the province. We're talking about two hundred thirty forms. This has therefore created the conditions so that issuers are unable to meet these obligations. In addition, this was not a large number. It was four hundred publications per issue. It was nothing extraordinary, which we could say had a financial impact too, so that I could understand the basis. But today it is a fact of reducing the information, risking the forms and anguish of readers - who are distributed throughout the territory - about the fate of how they will be informed, especially on sectoral and local issues. Having said that, because it was found that, Mr President, there were adverse effects during the six-month implementation of the measure, I address the question to the Minister on the subject: are there alternatives? Have alternatives been examined instead of the complete isotopic abolition? If not, look at them now and look for the alternatives and set a timetable in this regard. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-16-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr. Carras. Minister, before I give you the floor, I would like to make a correction for the Minutes. Mr. Carras, in the absence of the Minister abroad, you need to resubmit the question I read before...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-16-S1-commons.u17	I've been informed, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-16-S1-commons.u18	I know. I was just wrong, and I'm clarifying it for the Minutes. It shall be automatically redefined as a result of a workload. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-16-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Carras, I think you are addressing the question to a government which has shown practical interest in the viability and presence of the regional press. I explain: We from the beginning of the takeover of this portfolio have been embraced in a dialogue with the regional press bodies, who did not exist in the past. Because we have seen people strive to carry out their duties, trying to secure the role of a regional press in local and regional development. Of course, we are fully aware that the regional publication is something that readers are looking for, looking for and recognising as a source of information which is irreplaceable and cannot be substituted by the central forms. I would like to take the opportunity of your important question to remind you of the following: We have activated for the first time in substance, providing for penalties for those who do not comply with the so-called '70-30' directive, that is to say, the obligation for all public bodies to channel at least 30% of their advertising budget, their advertising expenditure, to the province's media. What does that mean? It means that anyone who does not respect it will have the corresponding penalties, will have the corresponding fines, which we will be able to receive in a short time the detailed lists of the Ministries' expenditure, to charge them. We have established the creation of the Regional Press Register, and this is extremely important, so that, on transparent terms and transparent conditions, the relevant list of regional newspapers can be produced and published by the public. I would like to remind you, Mr Carras, and this is very important, that until yesterday it was up to a ministerial signature. It was a product, in other words, not respecting certain clear rules which the democratic state will have, but a ministerial decision and, of course, it was also building the ground for such decisions, which it does not exist. Of course we have also set up the online media register, the internet media register, which has been registered over five hundred businesses involving a thousand websites, half of which are in the province's media. Indeed, the specific provision you are discussing has been abolished for the members of the associations you are talking about. So, what was abolished? The legal effect resulting from membership of the Union has been abolished. I would like to point out that this legislative change does not concern the vast majority of the regional forms, which continue to receive the relative discount on postal transport via the Greek Posts. It does not concern daily and weekly local and regional newspapers falling under the relevant and periodical catalogues and very soon in the register of regional and local press and can make public after checking the quality criteria. The rest in my dentistry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-16-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Carras, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-16-S1-commons.u21	I will be allowed a brief comment by the Minister. Since there was dialogue, was there a need for immediate dismantling? First of all, I note that. The second question: is it not noted, Minister, inconsistency and inequality between those who still enjoy the right to a reduced invoice to those who were abolished in the summer? I'm referring to two hundred thirty forms, if you want the number of a provincial press. Furthermore, I note that, while invoking the OECD toolbox, there is a privileged, in its view, distinction, but the OECD did not recommend abolishing, it recommended that the criteria be redefined. It will allow me, Mr President, to remind you that it recommends the abolition of the conditions, namely the provision of the number of years of previous circulation - there was a criterion that two years ago, it is acceptable that it should be abolished, it does not cause a problem for someone to become eligible for preferential postal charges - and the obligation to have the owner of a newspaper in the capacity of publisher and journalist. The OECD never said: 'Remove them', it did not say: 'Don't give', because it understood that it was inequality and inequality in relation to other publishing companies and forms. Of course, what the Minister said about public advertising, quota or registering relates mainly or entirely to daily newspapers, if I am not mistaken, and weeklys. We are talking about literature for the first time, monthly and periodicals and sectoral press. I think, therefore, that the circumstances that took place at the time - I do not want to make any other designation - are due to the misinterpretation of a recommendation or to a study which the government has shown, without compromising the consequences, because I see that the Minister accepts that the right to information and information should not be restricted. As a result, however, with regard to the abolition of this regulation and this invoice, I would like to remind you, Mr President, that the ELTAs provide general, universal service to Greece by means of special contracts between the Greek State and the ELTA and there is no financial impact, because the funds for this invoice are already paid to the majority of them. In other words, the difference, the profit, if you wish, the fiscal benefit of the State from the abolition of the movement of two hundred and thirty-three figures - was not given free of charge, a discount - I think it is negligible and we should not even talk about it. What we need to discuss, Minister, in my view, is to look for criteria and retain the right. If the Government considers that there are certain criteria, which are stricter than necessary, it must discuss this and find the solution. However, this regime must be restored because it is not linked to the register, which you have legislated, or to the sites which will be listed and enjoyed by public advertising. However, much more does not relate to the issue of the 70%-30% quota of public advertising because those who enjoy the reduced invoice still have public advertising. So if we want to talk about equality, seek criteria that will restore the right to a reduced fee, because this is how I think that exclusion is now and rigour and inequality is growing. I would therefore ask the Minister, Mr President, to return to the matter and to take the view that the right to a reduced invoice should be re-evaluated, even by changing the criteria and I would ask him to set a time horizon in which he will see these matters.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-16-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr. Carras. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-16-S1-commons.u23	Mr Carras, the legislative change you mentioned only concerns the status or potential status of a member of the Union of Journalists and Arbitrators of the Regional Press. We do not receive the discount for postal transport via ELTA. In other words, it concerns those who publish newspapers or magazines and are members of the association and those who publish newspapers or magazines and can be members of the association. This was recommendation number 4 of the OECD Third Toolbox in the context of the second evaluation. The recommendation therefore considered that the facility provided by the 2011 Ministerial Decision was a distinction based on the inclusion of the forms or their potential integration into a professional association. This was considered to be an unfair precedent for colleagues and therefore constituted an obstacle to healthy competition. With the legislative change we are making, there has been no choice of an equalisation solution, let me tell you, as you say in your question. On the other hand, this recommendation, which clearly called for the abolition of the condition that the issuer must be part of this professional union. Does it not make sense to remove this distortion, especially when both the members and the potential members of this union can issue daily or weekly newspapers and join the Regional and Local Press Register? The initiatives that we have taken to support the press, which demonstrate that we have one - I would say to you - a global approach to supporting regional forms and not a selective one, which chooses to channel support funds or subsidies or reductions on the basis of whether they are or are not members of a professional union, are irrelevant. In any case - and I conclude - I say that my door to dialogue is open and I would also like to encourage myself, without, of course, being able to commit a supervised body, this union, to launch a dialogue with ELTA as a collective body of journalists and owners, which will be able to achieve better prices in a short time. But here I really think - and I would like this to be recognised from the standpoint of counter-population - that a very systematic effort has been made to support the regional press as a lever for regional development and democratic information for our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-16-S1-commons.u24	Mr President, if there is no tritology, if you will allow me, I would like to say this: Mr. Poppa, as you have seen, I have talked about new criteria. Select the new criteria to meet all of them. There's no objection to that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-16-S1-commons.u25	There were those criteria, Mr. Carras. I know.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-16-S1-commons.u26	Let's not get any further!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-16-S1-commons.u27	Mr President, may I have the floor for ten seconds too?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-16-S1-commons.u28	Since we have given Mr Carras the floor, you have the floor too, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-16-S1-commons.u29	I said two things, which are perfectly useful: firstly, that I would like to encourage this union to enter into a systematic dialogue with the organisation, which has the obligation of the universal service and, secondly, to reiterate that the door of my office is open to continue the dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-16-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after taking part in the educational programme of the "Democracy Workshop" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, nineteen students and students and an educational attendant from the 15th Municipal School of Amarousi. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The debate on the topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-16-S1-commons.u31	With the agreement of the House at 10.50 p.m., the meeting for the next Wednesday, 21 February 2018, at 9.00 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work: discussion and decision on the proposal submitted by the Prime Minister and President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Alexis Tsipras, and a hundred and forty-four Members of the Group's Parliamentary Group, as well as the President of the Group of Independent Greeks, Panagiotis Kammenos, and eight MPs of the Group's Parliamentary Group for the purpose of setting up a Special Parliamentary Committee for a preliminary examination under Rule 86 of the Constitution, Articles 153 et seq. of Parliament's Rules of Procedure and Law 3126/2003 on Criminal Responsibility of Ministers, as applicable, on the investigation of the NOVARTIS case, in accordance with the special agenda to be distributed.
