ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-19-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Please tell the Secretary-General to announce the reports to the Department.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-19-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS A timely question will be debated today, and four will not be debated because of an impediment to the competent ministers. We move on to the debate of the third under number 6-16-2018 in the first cycle of the Member of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, on the subject: "Delete fines by the OTA committees". The question will be answered by the Minister, Mr. Skourletis. My colleague Mr. Synthrakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-19-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, according to n. 3870/2010, before municipal and regional elections take place, it shall be established by the Secretary-General of the decentralised administration of each regional spending and election inspection committee for the elections of local and regional authorities, which shall gather all elements of the electoral expenditure and make them public in the centralised database. If infringements or omissions occur, it shall impose fines on combinations. Such cases of fines and even superfluous fines have arisen for several combinations across the country during the last regional elections, after 18 and 25 May 2014. In particular, for Crete I am aware of, it is thirty-five combinations, resulting in many candidate mayors and members of combinations having committed money to their financial accounts or tax reimbursements. They cannot get tax information, and interest on late payments is added, creating serious financial difficulties for themselves and their families. In L.4447/2016, entitled ‘Spatial planning, sustainable development and others’, a provision is inserted - in particular Article 42 - where attestations relating to fines relating to the disclosure of data in the central database of Articles 9, 10 and 11 of Law3870/2010 are deleted. It seemed, in other words, that the resolution of this loose end is under way. For one year, however, no office of the Ministries or the decentralised administration has recognized responsibility and responsibility for implementing this provision, which has remained inactive, i.e. one agency sent it to the other. Only 21-9-2017, the letter from the Ministry of Interior to the decentralised administrations indicated the reconstruction of the anti-legislative committees, with the sole object of applying the provision and sending it to the respective DU a new confirmation list without the deleted fines. Of course, in the decentralised administration of Crete, the committee was formed forty waves, and ten months were delayed. Since the committee was finally set up, under the chairmanship of Ms Raptis, President of the Board of Directors of Chania in June 2018, it met and decided by a majority of three in favour and two against - note this - invoking ambiguity of the law that the above fines in their overwhelming majority are not covered by the deletion law provision. In view of all the above, therefore, we will need to establish a new committee on the one hand and, on the other, so as not to have a new long-term delay and a perpetuation of suffering, we want to ask you what measures can or must be taken by the Ministry in order to immediately eliminate any ambiguity of wording or possible interpretation in the law to delete fines in municipal combinations for failure to make their data public to the public authorities and, lastly, to terminate the fines from the present committees and return what has been paid without the need to set up new ones. I am presenting to you - and I am closing with this and thank you, Mr President - the decision of the Election Expenditure Committee of 2015 and, respectively, the decision of 2018 and the practice of the meeting of the recent committee which I think has a value to read and study. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Syntrakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-19-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr. Covenant. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-19-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Syntikakis, I would like to add to the description of the events you have made that, apart from L.3870, Article 10 you mentioned, which explicitly provided that there was an obligation for the combinations to post revenue and expenditure to the municipalities of more than ten thousand people after the call for elections, or rather with the start of the election period, there was also a number of other arrangements, Article 22 of Law 4147/2013 and Law 4251/2014. Therefore, there it was foreseen that, if the costs, not due to the combinations and their heads, were not included in the Interior Ministry’s database, then the corresponding fines were not paid. And that was because it was the first year of implementation in 2010 of this system and there were indeed malfunctions. So, then, the last arrangement has been made under Article 42 of Law 4441/2016, that is, for the days of the current government, which said that in any case there is the deletion of debts in those cases, which have proved to be an attempt to update the database and, therefore, it has the possibility - be careful - not the Ministry to delete, but the committees. These are the committees, on the basis of the legislation, which make the decision to impose, delete, etc., fines and a number of them, and they also have a specific composition. It is from the Legal Council of the State, from the Court of Auditors, from the ETUC, from the ETUC and from the IAEA. In the case of the 2014 elections, we have something different from what the regulations that I have told you are referring to. Based on the information I have from the services, there is, on the basis of the combinations, a mistaken behaviour. There has never been an attempt to update the Interior Ministry's database on these expenditures. Therefore, the arrangement made in 2016 does not include in its scope the 2014 elections. In this sense, whether they are formed or not the committees are formed, whether positively or non-response, they cannot respond to this matter, in order to remove debts, on the basis of the last regulation, because the last regulation concerned cases in 2010. However, there is also a question of responsibility for the head of the combinations. Where this legislation exists, it is not generally and vaguely, there is for specific reasons. We have decided that there should be a control over the economics of the combinations for too many reasons, which you know them and for there to be transparency in the management of these issues. So, here we - and I conclude with this - a 2016 regulation, which does not include fines of the 2014 elections within its scope. I don't know if that's the number of combinations you told me about. I'd been informed of fewer combinations. But you understand that there are hundreds of combinations throughout Greece, which were fine with their obligation and some who ignored it. The laws do not make them to prevent them from being applied and, of course, they are not punishable. In any case, I repeat that it is the committees that decide what will ultimately happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-19-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Synhronakis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-19-S1-commons.u7	Look, all right, the Minister has developed a rationale. Indeed, there were other counted laws, as you said, n.4147/2013, n.4257/2014. But be careful. This provision, Article 42 of the 2016 Act, was a provision that was shared consent. It was voted by everyone. What was the reasoning? What I told you in the protology, namely deleting the fines that have proved were not, at least, their fault. And I'll explain below. It was not only the central database. But let me mention some of the minutes of the committee on 19 June 2018. According to the President, Article 42 concerns fines imposed in cases of non-publishment of data and electoral procedures in the central electronic database. Fines in these cases were not imposed. In this category were three combinations of thirty-five. The remaining thirty two combinations belonged to the other category. The combinations belonged to this category raised objections. In this case, the committee accepted their objections. I refer to these three cases. However, there are also cases where combinations have not produced revenue and expenditure books and have proved to have not reached the competent office, the competent department of decentralised administration. In fact, there is also evidence of this, i.e. that it is not due to the fault of the head of the combination. This category includes the combination of the People's Convergence of the Municipality of Platania Chania, in which a fine of EUR 2,000 was imposed, paid to the competent DU, for the late submission of the file with the information in the committee. We note that the combination of the People's Confederacy has called into question the infringement with objection, which has brought the problem to poor compliance with the protocol of decentralised administration. And while it re-subscribed a copy of the revenue and expenditure book, and even filed the courier company's excerpt, with which it was originally sent to decentralised administration - I am telling you there is evidence - that the committee imposed a fine for late submission of documents. Therefore, under Article 42 of Law 4417/2016, as I told you, the committee cannot - says the decision - delete any of the fines imposed, since these do not concern cases of non-insurance in the central database. But listen to the other one. The representative of the DU, who voted in favour of this decision, said that in other cases, only the amending publication decision was sufficient, without the committee convening a meeting, contrary to this case. The representative of the Court of Auditors and the ETUC expressed the view that Article 42 was drafted in order to delete all fines imposed on all irregularities in the candidate procedures of the previous regional and municipal elections. That's what it was. The chairman of the committee simply entered the substance of the provision, the contents of the provision and not the feasibility of the provision. That is an issue, in our view. We also note that these two acts, namely the submission of this information to the committee and the Ministry, are interconnected and represent aspects of a single obligation for each combination, i.e. the publication of their information to the public authorities. Nevertheless, the original committees had separated one infringement into two by imposing separate fines for the non-publishment to one or other state authority, the committee or the centralised database of the Ministry. That is how we view the data. We think you should see it again and review it. Will it possibly be a new provision of remedial, amending what is already in existence and supplemented by not only cases that are made public in the central database, but also all the others that have proved, in any case, that it was not on their own fault? I don't know how it can be shaped. I think you should rethink it and soon, because it is an issue that has been pending for two, three years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-19-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr. Synchronous. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-19-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, I will reply briefly and without repeating what I have told you in my prototype. What is presented as an image at the moment is that it is questioned that this provision concerned fines imposed after the 2014 elections. So, without knowing the details - because you have referred to specific combinations - and perhaps without the Ministry of Interior having such a detailed picture of the respective services that have informed me, I think that what we could do is to review, following the submission of information, and with your own contribution and all the services involved and representatives of the combinations, to see precisely and to ensure that first it was not on their own fault. From there on, it may be necessary not to interpret a provision, which is ultimately disputed if it includes the year 2014, but to include a new provision that includes these cases. However, what I would like to emphasise - and I think we can agree on this - is that we cannot agree every time a law is applied for the first time to go to exemption and discount. In no case do I criticise these cases. I can well accept that what you say is the way you say it. But you also understand the debt of the state and the committees responsible for judging the various cases, for implementing the law. Because there are too many cases which come and seek to exclude the exception and are not always the responsibility of an incorrect writing of the law or of a misinterpretation or of an uncertainness or delay of the committees. There are also responsibilities, which concern the other side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-19-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point I would like to announce to the Department that the Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: 'Deregulation of the Protocol No. On the other hand, there is a need to ensure that the Community's external relations with the countries of Central and Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union are not jeopardized by the fact that it is not just the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, but also the countries of Central and Eastern Europe which are members of the European Union who are members of the European Union who are members of the European Union who are members of the European Union who are members of the European Union who are members of the European Union. As I said at the beginning of the sitting, four topical questions will not be discussed. In particular, we will not discuss the fourth under number 4-12-7-2018 in the first cycle of the New Democracy MP Karditsa Mr. Konstantinos Tsiras to the Minister of Health on the subject: “The function of a pediatric clinic General Hospital of Karditsa”. Nor will the first question be discussed under No 7/16-2018 in the first cycle of the New Democracy MP, Jason Foila, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Large delays in the payment of beneficiaries of OAS unemployment programmes". Furthermore, the second question under number 5/16-2018 will not be discussed in the context of the first cycle of the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Kazan ready to explode the state of Skopje". Finally, there will be no debate on the fifth under No 1/12-7-2018 in the first cycle of the Congressman of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The situation in the refugee hospitality centre in Scaramaga" will be checked. For the topical questions which were not discussed by the General Secretariat of the Government, the Bureau and the President of Parliament have been informed. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate on this point has been concluded.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-19-S1-commons.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only a discussion and a vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: On the other hand, there is a need to ensure that the Community's external relations with the countries of Central and Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union are not jeopardized by the fact that it is not just the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, but also the countries of Central and Eastern Europe which are members of the European Union who are members of the European Union who are members of the European Union who are members of the European Union who are members of the European Union. The draft was adopted by a majority in the Standing Committee. It is introduced to the House in accordance with the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to the ratification of this agreement. On the basis of the debate and the vote in committee, SYRIZA, the Democratic Reconciliation, the Independent Greeks and the Potami vote. The New Democracy, the Golden Dawn and the Union of Centres were declared. "Paris" said the Communist Party of Greece. Does any of the Members of Parliament therefore wish to speak in this House who have declared a reservation or a'residence'?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-19-S1-commons.u12	I, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-19-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Pappas has the floor since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-19-S1-commons.u14	The present ratification of Protocol No. 15 amends the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. This is an amendment protocol. They are, in fact, amendments to procedural provisions relating to matters relating to the functioning of the European Court of Human Rights, to matters relating to the accelerated procedure, to the age limit of judges and to the shortening of a time limit for the exercise of individual appeals. These issues are rather formal. The Human Rights Court is an international court which examines appeals for violations of rights guaranteed by the European Convention on Human Rights. This convention is an international treaty by which States have undertaken to respect certain fundamental individual rights. The guaranteed rights refer to the contract itself, as well as to four additional protocols, numbering. 1, 4, 6, 7 and 13. If one of the States had personally and directly infringed one of the fundamental rights of the applicant, an appeal shall be brought to the Court. The court may only examine actions relating to the rights referred to in the contract and to additional protocols. So his responsibilities are defined and rotated around them. One point to be stressed is that the court cannot overturn or amend the judgments of the national courts or intervene on behalf of the applicant before the authority for acts to which it is referring. Another key point is that one can only appeal to the court after the internal legal proceedings have been exhausted and within six months of the date of the irrevocable internal decision. After the adoption of a judgment by a supreme court, for example by the Council of State or by the Warsaw Ice, one may appeal to court. The European Court of Human Rights shall rule on the appeal, finding that the act or omission of the State concerned has infringed the rights of the applicant. Its decisions are binding on the national states, but there is no enforcement mechanism for them. Where an infringement has been found which, despite the decision, is not withdrawn, the court may invoke financial compensation for the citizen from that State. If the act of infringement is a legislative measure, the court has no power to annul the same, except to judge it contrary to the Convention and to prejudicialize compensation to those affected. The negative publicity caused by these decisions, however, as well as the certainty that if one is justified, the rest of them will also be entitled to appeal in the future, usually enough for the national state to amend the relevant legislation and stop the insult. And that is ultimately the role of the court. That is what I would say - in introductory terms - is its 'usability'. It could be described as a pressure mechanism rather than a result. We, Mr President, as a Greek nationalist movement, but also as a political institution of Euroscepticism, which is politically inclined in geometric terms, say 'yes' only in the interests of the peoples of Europe. We say 'no' to the paper institutions of the European Union of loan sharks and to the elected presidents, not because of their qualifications, but because of their weaknesses, for example in drinking and not just in drinking. We expect nothing from the mechanism of oppression of European peoples, from the anti-Christian Europe of Islam, the Europe of illegal immigrants and gay pride, anti-European on the basis of Europe. We expect no good for Greece and Europe by the mechanism - the gang of the donors of technocrats and politicians of the Muizniks, Abrahamopoulos and other hybrids of the nationalist movement and therefore hundreds of thousands of Greeks. This Europe does not express Greeks. This Europe does not express the Greek nationalists or the nationalists of the other European countries. We do not disagree with the protection of the human rights of the European peoples, whose majority neo-taxi governments are blatantly violating them, nor are we opposed to the fair, unadulterated and unaffected administration of justice. Historical reality, however, says that law, freedom, national independence and social justice are not cared for but are conquered. They are conquered by popular, national struggles, with constant struggles and not with sanctions that are undocumented in the matter, not with commissioned Brusselsian mercenary technocrats. In the light of this, Mr President, we are in a negative position, namely 'no'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-19-S1-commons.u15	Good. The reason is the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-19-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. As a Communist Party of Greece we said several times yesterday in the committee responsible. Let me just refer here to the protocol on which the principle of subsidiarity is expressly reflected in the Convention, but also the principle of the so-called 'period of assessment of the States Parties in its interpretation and application'. What is it that seeks? To alleviate a number of frictions which have arisen between the European Court of Human Rights and national authorities and courts as a result of competition between economic and political policies, conflicts in the European Union and, of course, resentment in this area between nationalism and the cosmopolitanism of capital, as this is also reflected in the level of individual rights and freedoms. The amendment of the European Convention on Human Rights recognises an important role in the national courts and offers a margin of manoeuvre to adapt to them, but also with some flexibility in the implementation of the obligations of the Contracting States under the Convention. As we have said, the European Court of Human Rights is taking on a more effective role in unifying the relevant case-law. That is why the introduction of the unrestricted referral of cases by a Chamber of the European Court of Justice of Human Rights in its Sub-Committee of Inquiry, with the lifting of the possibility of objecting to the parties so far, as is introduced in Article 3 of the Protocol amending Article 30 of the Convention. In this direction, moreover, the most effective role called for by the ECHR is underway, and the 16th Amendment Protocol to the Convention, which, of course, has not yet entered into force and provides for the possibility of requesting an opinion from national courts at the European Court of Human Rights on matters of individual rights and freedoms, in a case pending before them. For us, ladies and gentlemen, the main issue is that Euro-Union and domestic legislation and the exercise of public power are becoming more reactionary and authoritarian towards workers and popular strata not only in terms of social rights, which are already not included in this convention, but also in terms of individual rights and freedoms. The reality is that, as much as the government is trying to show itself as socially and democratically sensitive during the period of its governance, all domestic criminal repressive legislation and practice are maintained and enriched, in particular by adapting Greek legislation to the relevant reactionary directions and instructions of the European Union. I think it is a top example of what else can be from the so-called terrorist that, instead of abolishing it, as SYRIZA had announced, went on to Law 4478/2017, the ratification of the Warsaw Convention which reinforces, in an even more reactionary direction, anti-terrorist legislation, while at the same time announcing the amendment of Articles 187 and 187 A of the Criminal Code relating to the criminal and terrorist organization in the same reactional direction. In fact, it should be recalled that the Government recently rejected relevant JRC amendments to abolish the terrorist and introduce some elementary guarantees to the question of obtaining and exploiting DNA from the prosecution authorities and courts. I will not, of course, talk about the issues of state authoritarianism and repression, the criminal persecutions against labour, populist and neo-collegiate mobilisations - from which the government is disturbed, which are taking place against NATO, NATO and the United States war plans - in anti-war anti-imperialist protests and the beat-up of young people, as recently happened in mobilising Truman's statue in central Athens, as of course withholding elementary rights and freedoms in the refugees of wars and economic migrants. Consequently, we have no illusions that these issues can be dealt with effectively by invoking this convention, whether it is interpreted and implemented by the European Court of Human Rights itself or by the national courts. In this respect, therefore, we are voting'residents' in this draft law. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-19-S1-commons.u17	Mr Saridis has the floor from the Centroon Association. The following is followed by Mr Kalafatis, who also completed the speeches by the representatives of the parliamentary groups. Here, Mr Saridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-19-S1-commons.u18	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by seeing a series of remarkable incidents. Today that the Greek Parliament is called upon to ratify another protocol to amend the ECHR, at the same time as, to its friend and neighbour Turkey, the Erdogan Firmani of 20 July 2016, with which he declared his country in an emergency, ceases to be in force. The context of this three-month emergency, which lasted two years, the first of the many things that Democrat Erdogan did, almost immediately after the end of the theatrical performance under the well-known "successful attempt of a military coup on 15 July", was to put one of his pits, from his palace, Nouman Kurtulmous, a deputy Prime Minister of the country, to announce the immediate suspension of the implementation of the European Convention on Human Rights in Turkey, which has been in force so far. Without any shame, it came out then and publicly argued that the suspension of the ECHR in Turkey would allow the Turkish authorities to be more effective in trying to bring the coups before Turkish justice. In fact, as it proved, ladies and gentlemen, he was right. The suspension of the ECHR has helped quite a bit to ensure that tens of thousands of Turkish citizens are subjected to systematic persecution without being able to appeal to the European Court of Justice. This situation is not unknown to us here in Greece, and perhaps our history as members of the European family will have to give us some advice, to be able to show us a direction for what we can do as Greece in order to achieve the release of our two soldiers, Kouklatzis and Metrites. As you know, Greece and Turkey joined the Council of Europe on 9 August 1949. As members of this international organisation, whose main aims were to defend and protect democracy, the rule of law and human rights, we moved on next year, in 1950, and we and Turkey, in the signing of the ECHR, the convention that we accept and strengthen and that our neighbours may refuse to put into effect again, unleashing it, even though the state of emergency has officially ended today. The importance of this Convention is easier to understand, considering that the European Court of Human Rights and its only kind in global times has been founded and operates, as it is the only court where a citizen can appeal against an entire state. How important it was for the Hellenic Republic that the Council of Europe and the ECHR could understand, if we remember the decision that Juda had had to make in December 1969, to leave the Council of Europe and the ECHR, following the appeal to the European Court of Human Rights of the four European countries that were concerned about us at the time, Sweden, Denmark, Norway and the Netherlands, proving that democracy was being destroyed in Greece and thus causing the report of the Committee on Human Rights to be published in the black colours, which described the tragic situation in which our country had come, in contrast to some who then made the wrong eyes to Greece, which were subsidising and financing. Ladies and gentlemen, since yesterday's committee, I made it clear that the Central Association has no objection to the ratification of Protocol No. 15 and how our safeguards were typical, mainly to avoid possible government surprises by introducing late and unrelated last minute amendments. However, I take this opportunity to make the step forward for our joint action in the context of the consensus and consensus that we all have to show on our national issues, ladies and gentlemen. Has it been time for us to resort to the European Court of Justice with the same arguments described in the Ice Arena judgment, which denied the extradition of the eight Turkish soldiers seeking Turkey's dismissal from the Council of Europe until our two soldiers were returned to us, even seeking compensation for their families? Has it been time to ask for Turkey's temporary expulsion from the Council of Europe on the basis of the anti-democratic and obsolete bill submitted to the Turkish Parliament yesterday and is also expected to pass by the votes of the extreme right party, according to which the state will become law and will everything that has been done now permanently before the state of emergency? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Should we, Minister, denounce as a pretext the end of the state of emergency, at the same time as maximum and undeniable proof of the dismantling of the rule of law in Turkey of the fact that the two Greek soldiers have been detained for five months in Turkish prisons without being indicted to them, which is a clear violation of the ECHR? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-19-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr. Saridis. We shall give the floor to Mr Kalafatis, the rapporteur for the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-19-S1-commons.u20	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are called upon to ratify a protocol amending the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. This protocol, in particular, concerns the amendment of specific provisions of a purely procedural nature, but I think that the great importance identified in this amendment is mainly to guarantee two important principles, the principle of subsidiarity and the principle of national margins of assessment. In fact, the amendment seeks to codify - and this is important - the particular and specific philosophy of the supranational legal structure, which is very important in order to defend human rights, that is, a regional system of guarantees. This is done, on the one hand, by guaranteeing the principle of subsidiarity, namely by recognising an important role for national courts and national authorities and, on the other hand, by guaranteeing the principle of the national margin of assessment, which is essentially what it is doing? It redefines the framework of trust between the Contracting States with the European Court of Human Rights, which is also very important - respect for the individual legacy acquired by the national legal classes. Both of these refer to the Brighton Declaration, which promotes and ultimately implements their formal accession to the text of the European Convention on Human Rights. As I stressed yesterday, in particular the concept of the national margin of assessment which is a particular expression of the principle of subsidiarity, contributes decisively to the safeguarding of a privileged area of freedom for the Member State, in the context of its obligations vis-à-vis the European Convention on Human Rights. And it is very important because it provides a considerable margin of discretion and competence in the decisions on regulation or individual content. Of course its main supporting basis can be found not only in the fact that it is an aspect of the principle of subsidiarity, but also in the role of the European Court of Human Rights in the European legal order. In particular, I would like to stress that this system of guarantees is trying to harmonise and integrate individual national rules and practices with the general requirements of the Convention, ending - and this is extremely important, in my view - the application of these requirements to the Member States, namely to the national authorities, as I stressed yesterday, executive, legislative, administrative. This recognition of autonomy in the competent national bodies comes, in my view, from the legal basis, which is essentially the will to have a source through democracy and direct competence to pursue a policy, as they have the presumption of legality proven. So, as we pointed out yesterday, we have no objection. The reservation we made yesterday was not for reasons of substance, and we are therefore positive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-19-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr. Kalafatis. Ladies and gentlemen, we have completed the speeches of the parliamentary groups. Mr Minister, you obviously want to speak for a few minutes. The Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr. Katrugalos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-19-S1-commons.u22	Mr President, in fact the ECHR, like the European Social Charter supplementing the social rights system, is currently the common right law at continental level, especially after the collapse of the socialist camp, when the forty-eight countries of Europe and the democracies which were in the former Soviet Union are part of the Council of Europe. I would like to repeat what Mr Saridis, before us, has rightly and historically put before us the contribution of the system of self-protecting human rights in the defence of our country against the dictatorship and the constant presence of the court as defender of rights in all matters relating to the European citizen. The individual action, i.e. the possibility of any citizen being able to appeal to a court, distinguishes that judicial system from any other system of protection of rights worldwide. There is no other corner of the world in which the citizen can question decisions of his own national justice system in another court. It was also right to point out that one of our main arguments towards Turkey in relation to the unjust, illegal, politically unacceptable and hostile relationships of good neighbourliness to maintain the detention of Greek soldiers without indictment is contrary to Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights, to every principle of fair trial and to European legal culture. I would also like to point out just about the completeness of the presentation that, as far as other rights are concerned, social rights are concerned, from the application of many times as contrary to the Convention on the European Social Charter, we have had decisions by the Committee on Social Rights that our Government has attempted to make as much use as it could in the course of the negotiation, although the International Monetary Fund does not seem to be interested in such matters as European legality. Obviously, after leaving the memorandum, with the discretion we will have to take into account the provisions of the European Social Charter as regards the reform of the working relationships which were so brutally dismantled during the Memorandum. These provisions, in addition to the principle of subsidiarity, which Mr Kalafatis rightly pointed out, complement the unity of the case-law applicable throughout Europe, by recognising the role of national courts in adapting to national specificities, particularly trying to make the functioning of the court more operational. For example, the new age limit regulation aims to save a fact that happened, judges being forced to leave their term of office in the midst of it because they filled the age limit in the course of their duties. Now, with the prediction that no judges can be appointed over the sixty-fifth year, he is now covered. Such functionality are other arrangements aimed at reducing the volume of the court. Tens of thousands of appeals are now filed before the court every year and its ability to examine them is limited to some substantial dozens. It is important that the court should be able to intervene in the major cases, precisely because its role is not to be a fourth degree of jurisdiction, that is to say, to run out of the interior and to go to a kind of "Ultranational Ice Bay". Its role is to bring the case-law into line with its basic fundamental principles, so that throughout Europe we have a single area of rights and freedoms. I therefore welcome the intention of most of the political forces, I believe, of the overwhelming majority of Parliament, to support this protocol. We will also bring the sixteenth, which is more important, because it enables national courts to ask questions to the Court of Human Rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-19-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The debate on the principle and the articles of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is closed: On the other hand, there is a need to ensure that the Community's external relations with the countries of Central and Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union are not jeopardized by the fact that it is not just the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, but also the countries of Central and Eastern Europe which are members of the European Union who are members of the European Union who are members of the European Union who are members of the European Union who are members of the European Union who are members of the European Union. Questioned by the Department: Can the bill be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-19-S1-commons.u24	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-19-S1-commons.u25	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-19-S1-commons.u26	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-19-S1-commons.u27	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-19-S1-commons.u28	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-19-S1-commons.u29	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-19-S1-commons.u30	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-19-S1-commons.u31	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-19-S1-commons.u32	The draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, therefore: 'Following the Protocol no. 15 amending the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms' has been accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle of Articles and the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-19-S1-commons.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the Chamber to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-19-S1-commons.u34	The Department therefore granted the requested authorisation. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-19-S1-commons.u35	With the consent of the Department at 10.30 p.m. the meeting is closed for tomorrow, Friday 20 July 2018 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of the work of the Department: parliamentary control, discussion of the 1-117-07-2018 topical question.
