ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-25-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 24-10-2018 authorisation, the minutes of the IE Bureau, Wednesday 24 October 2018, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Urgent arrangements for the submission of statement of assets and other provisions’.]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-25-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Before we begin the debate, let me inform the House of the topical and urgent debate on Friday 26 October 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 90/23-10-2018 topical question by MP Halkidiki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Catherine Iglezi to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Dues to teaching staff in Secondary Education in Halkidiki". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 84/22-10-2018 by MP Lassithi of the New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Plakkatakis to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: ‘Procurement and installation of an integrated maritime surveillance system (ESOI) in the Eastern Aegean’. 3. The question raised by Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou, Member of the European Parliament, Mr Achaias, Member of the Democratic Association of the PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou, Minister for Migration Policy, on "Gold Keys and Direct Awards for Refugees". 4. The Question No 74/16-10-2018 by MP Pireos of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, entitled "The planning for maritime education". 5. The Question No 94/23-10-2018 by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "For the disasters of the cyclone "Zorba" caused in the Peloponnese". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 85/22-10-2018 by MP Larissa of the New Democracy Mr Christou Kelles to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The huge gaps in Special Education - Parallel Support". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 81/22-10-2018 by Mr Mikhail Jeleli to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "The situation of the Greek Sugar Industry (EBZ)". 3. PASOK - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject of "Government misinformation, that the guarantors of the indebted households are protected". 4. The Question No 95/23-10-2018 by Piraeus (Piraeus) of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Diamantos Manolakos to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "For the catastrophic floods caused in North-Central Evia". 5. The Question No 53/11-10-2018 by MP Pireaus of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: ‘Strengthening the Port House with a view to establishing an EOZ and an EOG mining of hydrocarbons and natural gas’. 6. The Question No 73/16-10-2018 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARK Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, entitled "Ireland is entitled to join the universal application of the Transport Equivalent from 01-01-2019". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 20/3-10-2018 topical question by MP Pireos of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on "Turkish challenging continues in the Aegean". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Question No 1048/30-8-2018 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMARKK KEGEROGlou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "To resolve the problem that has arisen for students of the Department of Political Structural Works of the School of Application of T.E.I. Crete.’ 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 115/18-7-2018 question by MP I Athens of the Communist Party of Greece, Liana Kanellis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Serious problems cause the residents of Saints Theodoros, the Municipality of Andravidas - Cyclones the operation of a processing plant for meat by-products". 3. Question No 1326/6-9-2018 by MP B' Athens of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Incredible analgesia of PPC against its consumers, accompanied by the unbelievable suffering of PPC's shops". Ladies and gentlemen, I will now announce the topical and urgent questions of today's issue, which will not be discussed: The first under number 83/22-10-2018, a topical question by Evia MP Simos Kedicoglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: “The Chalkida-N. Lamphakos – Psychnas project”, will not be discussed after consultation of the relevant Minister and MP. The sixth question under number 1/1-10-10-2018 in the sixth cycle of the MEP I of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Antonios Gregos to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "About the Museum of Macedonia and other institutions, associations and unions of Macedonia and Article 6 of the Greek-Skopje Agreement", is not discussed. The third, with number 75/16-10-2018, top-stage question for the first cycle of Congressman I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: “Protection of crews from abandonment of inland waterways”, is not discussed. The fourth question under number 96/23-10-2018 is a second question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on "Direct action to protect workers at the factory of LARCO" in Larymna Fotida to avoid accidents at work", and will not be discussed due to lack of responsibility. The first under number 82/22-10-2018, a top-stage question by MP Florina, New Democracy, Ioannis Antoniadis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Conservation of the areas of the Florina Prefecture in the less-favoured areas", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister responsible. The second question under number 91/23-10-2018 of the first cycle of the MP Iraklios of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARK KEGROGlou Vassiliou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Taking back on the serious problems arising from the adoption of the new draft delimitation of the map of less-favoured areas", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister responsible. Also, the third, with number 93/23-10-2018, a topical question by the Member of Parliament, Aetolokarnania, of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "To complete the irrigation and refreshment project in the plain at the estuary of the Mornos", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister responsible. The fourth question under number 88/22-10-2018 is the first question of the Athens of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zarulias to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "The pogrom against the Greeks in Chimara" will not be discussed due to the absence of Mr Katrugalos abroad. The second question, under number 89/22-10-2018, on the second question by MP I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "Skopje port becomes Thessaloniki on the basis of the Prespecies Agreement", will not be discussed due to the absence of Mr Katrugalos abroad. So we begin the debate with the fifth under number 65/16-10-2018, a topical question for the second cycle of the Parliamentary I of Athens, New Democracy, Olga Kefaloyannis, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "The issue of granting historical buildings and archaeological sites to the Hellenic Company of Participation and Property S.A. (SPD S.A.)(')'. Mrs. Kefaliannis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-25-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, with the decision of the Governing Council of Economic Policy on June 19, 2018, they were transferred to the Greek Company of Participation and Property - the most famous supreme privatization fund, a monastery of SYRIZA - ANEL - more than ten thousand codes corresponding to the real estate of the Greek State. Among these codes are historical buildings, archaeological sites and monuments located throughout the territory. In our questions to verify the real situation, unfortunately, we have not received any clear response to ensure that there is absolutely no question of transferring ownership and the legality and the management of monuments of cultural heritage. In fact, you have claimed that what you have legislated is about self-evident, thus trying to entertain ironically and ironically our own concerns. Minister, to cover the unprecedented sale made during the days of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, you have even referred to earlier transfers made by the Ministry of Culture. You said, among other things, that the properties of the Treasury Company had arrived at the GOI and the EBRD since 2013 or since 2011. As much as you want to degrade the seriousness of the embarrassing political force and blur the truth, reality is another and it exposes you. We would like to remind you, therefore, that the GOI and ETA, like the other legal entities of the Greek State, until 2016, were public limited companies of the Greek State. In other words, they were the responsibility of the Greek Government. So their management was the ultimate control of the Greek government and the Greek state. Since 2016, when your Government passed the Law on the Supreme Court, EBRD has become a subsidiary of the Supreme Council. I would like to remind you that the Overseas Supervisory Board consists of three members appointed by the sole shareholder, the Greek State, but appointed in agreement with the European Commission and the European Stability Mechanism, and two members including the President, selected by the European Commission and the European Stability Mechanism. In order to make a decision, at least one foreigner is required to agree. So you realise, Minister, that the only self-evident thing in the case of EBRD's real estate is that, until then, until 2016, it was under the full control and supervision of the Greek state, and today after 2016 it is under the full control of the UFO. So just stop talking about how you are going to make a clear political responsibility on your part, obviously political responsibility for your predecessors, who, after all, you have already shown with your statements.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-25-S1-commons.u4	The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-25-S1-commons.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Let's not play, Mrs. Kefaliannis, with words. This game is dangerous. Today, then, we are coming back to an issue which, although we have stated categorically to all the tons of what is actually happening, we need once again to talk about it. You are giving us the opportunity to provide detailed and up-to-date information, as the Ministry of Culture has been following a specific, organised approach from the outset in this matter, which is systematic. To clarify and stress: The Ministry of Culture has not transferred any monuments or other property since 2015 to any company. No archaeological site, no museum, monument, and everything you imply. As we all know, in accordance with Article 1033 of the Civil Code, without transferring the title to the mortgages, no transfer of ownership of the property takes place. This applies to the whole list of EBRD real estate. As stated in the Ministerial Decision, the transfer excludes all property falling under the provisions of Article 196(4) of Law4389/2016, where the property that constitutes our cultural heritage is mentioned. According to the Communication issued by the Treasury on 19-6-2018: ‘the transfer of real estate is subject to the control of the national register numbers and subsequently to the transfer of their ownership titles to the Treasury or Land register and is not carried out under the registration to the FEK, and is investigated on a case-by-case basis whether there is protected under the existing ownership legislation’. So let's get to it. The Constitution also protects the cultural stock of the country and this check is universal, as you all know. You are making a big mistake, Mrs Kefaliannis, when you are wondering how SPS will manage the properties of the Ministry of Culture until the exclusion procedure is completed. I am pleased that you finally recognise the exception, but, given that no transfer has been made, I wonder how you raise any question of managing these real estates from the EBRD. In fact, to note your little mistake - little or big, I don't know. The actual number of properties is ten thousand ten thousand nineteen and not ten thousand nineteen as mentioned in your question. As far as the action taken by the Ministry is concerned, we have responded with a sense of responsibility and a good methodology. In particular, the Secretary-General of the Treasury of the Ministry of Finance was requested in writing to provide a complete list of the properties with the particulars of their identification. We were provided with geographical and descriptive elements of the OEMs, which have already been transmitted by regional section... [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, please have some tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-25-S1-commons.u6	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-25-S1-commons.u7	...in more than fifty inventions of antiquities throughout the country and the Services of New Monuments, in order to identify which ones are subject to the exception. With the completion of the data collection, very quickly, the nominal list of properties will be publicly disclosed as a list of exceptions from the Ministry of Culture and sent to the Ministry of Finance to ensure their publicity in every institutional way. No immovable cultural property, no property intended for public service, no property exempted for public use and archaeological purposes is traded and I have therefore recently said that it is legally impossible to transfer them. In the last few days there has been a question of New Moro, which we have also received a detailed communication. I do not have the time to refer now, but, if necessary, I would be happy to refer to my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-25-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, too. Mrs. Kefaliannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-25-S1-commons.u9	Minister, four months have elapsed since the contested decision was adopted and we are shocked by the fact that you are insisting, in particular, on making arguments to cover the national humiliation of public property in the excess. Meanwhile, because you corrected us on the issue of the number of real estates, I would like to tell you that in our question we are saying 'about so much' and then you obviously know exactly what they are and the codes on which they correspond, because that is a big issue. In any case, however, this concession of Greek property to the supreme privatizations and cultural heritage is, Minister, unfortunately, the dishonourable guarantee that the Government gave you to creditors in order to convince you that you will respect your very hard budgetary commitments. And that was something that, until the black summer of 2015, he dared to do no other government, that is, to grant the entire Greek property for ninety years. So you are accountable to this great national shame and, of course, to its consequences. I want you to allow me to stay a little on everything you have at times said. Not only what you have told us here today, but what you have said here the day before yesterday in the bill we have discussed or statements that you have occasionally made on this issue about the granting of the properties of the Ministry of Culture. Since you mentioned the properties transferred by the Ministry to the Ministry of Culture in Plaka, I would just like to remind you that in 2013, when consent was given for a transfer, they were transferred by the Ministry of Culture again to a Greek state entity under the control of the Greek state and these were expropriated dwellings, not archaeological sites, no monuments, not even historical buildings. So all parallels are completely misleading. We are now going through what you say and you are relying on the provisions of Article 196 of Law No4389 on the exceptions to property ownership and ownership of property managed by the EBRD. You keep deliberately altering the truth. You know very well that in paragraph 5 of that article, I read it in words - 'The EBRD continues to manage the assets excluded from the transfer'. So lie when you say and move press releases that say that there is no question of managing archaeological sites and monuments and therefore also of their revenues in the excess. I insist on management, and I would like to remind you that today's Undersecretary of Culture and Sport was the director of the Minister of Culture and Sport, Mr Balta, in 2016, when No.4389 was voted. As in the same place today was all these years and the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. So there are no excuses. You've been in power for four years. The responsibilities are all yours. Also, Minister, the day before yesterday you referred us to the mortgage office in order to convince us that no transfer has taken place. We ask ourselves: do you think, for example, that Knossos has come to the Greek state with some legal action? For transferring from the Ministry of Culture takes place when property comes under its jurisdiction by acts of law. The other monuments and antiquities, from the depth of Greek history, are certainly impossible to find. You have also said that no transfer or management operation will be attempted if the identification of the excluded property is not completed. You admit that the Ministry of Culture and Sport had not carried out any checks before the contested decisions of last June. So, it's both premature and irresponsible first to conceive and then come and check. Madam Minister, we really invite you to stop deafing and reacting to the embodiment of the Hellenic cultural heritage and to respect the Constitution. Do it now, because press releases and disseminating information do not give answers to a situation out of control. Stop sinking the country into inconvenience with a gun to transfer responsibility and mislead. We expect you to do at least what you might have to do, if necessary, in order to convince us that all that you have spoken about at times is true and nothing is self-evident.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-25-S1-commons.u10	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-25-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Kefalayannis, with rhetoric and accusations and an inappropriate phrase, I believe that you are creating more confusion among those who listen to you than you have a substantial request, which, moreover, in a few days' time, with the publication of the list, you will not have the opportunity to continue to support it. However, because you are constantly referring to the properties of 2012-2014, which were passed by the Greek State at TIAD, to tell you that you signed, you signed this decision as Minister. So you have signed - to hear them now specifically - the transfer of thirty-six real estate management powers from the Ministry of Culture to the Plaka region, some of which are monuments, but some house services, but all have been expropriated for public benefit and archaeological purposes in the protected area of Plaka. With two decisions published in the FEKs in 2013 and 2014 - and I will present all the relevant - these transfers were made without exceptions, Mrs Kefaliannis. Therefore, for their relocation to the Ministry of Culture we are already taking action, which will take a little time, much more of course than the EBRD's exceptions, because that is where our system is very specific. So here we'll have to bring back those properties you sold out. So I think you should be a little more careful. [[At this point, Minister Myrsini Zorba presents for the Minutes the relevant documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] I would like to say one more thing. Let us not use warfare, let us focus on something essential, even though it has so far been shown that you are not interested in essentials. On the basis of the above, however, the scale of the problem that has its roots in the fact that the Archaeological Register has not yet been completed. This is rather ignored by those who failed to complete it from 2011 to 2014, when he joined the ESRB during the previous programming period 2007-2013, despite their continued statements to the press that it would already be ready in 2013. I see articles in the press that should be better thought about by those who write them, because they are precisely those responsible for this. So we managed to meet at a time when there was no list, which we are now building. So instead of recognising this fact, that today we have the opportunity to identify all the property of archaeological interest for the first time, you blame us on top. I think you should think about it again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-25-S1-commons.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. MP Aristides Fokas had requested permission from a short-day absence for the period from 23 October to 24 October 2018, which has elapsed. [[The abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice, is lodged here for the minutes.]] In addition, MP Emmanuel Thraniotis is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad for personal reasons from 7 November to 16 November 2018. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-25-S1-commons.u13	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-25-S1-commons.u14	With the consent of the House at 10.01p. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, October 26, 2018 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
