ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 11-12-2018 delegation, the minutes of the MA's meetings of Tuesday, 11 December 2018, with regard to the vote as a whole were confirmed by the Bureau. The proposal by the President of Parliament "to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament (Member of Parliament) and of the Chamber of Deputies). 7876/6041/25/11-2002 (Official Journal 1502/B/2002) judgment of the President of Parliament, 2. ‘Repeal of the provisions on reduction of pensions, incorporation into Greek legislation of Directive 2016/97/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 January 2016 on the distribution of insurance products and other provisions’]] Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed with the procedure, I would like to inform the House of an application for a leave of absence. The MP, Mr Ioannis Kefaliannis, is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad to travel to Ukraine from 17 December 2018 to 20 December 2018 for personal reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u2	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance ‘State Budget for the financial year 2019’. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the state budget will be held in accordance with Rule 123 of the Rules of Procedure at five consecutive meetings. The speakers will be registered with the electronic system by the end of the speech of the general rapporteurs and a single list of speakers will be drawn up. The sequence of speakers will be defined in the context of the speakers' circles. I propose, after the speeches of the general and special rapporteurs to be completed today, that there should be a first circle of speakers - so tomorrow morning - with speakers from one MEP from each parliamentary group. So the first three cycles will be those. In other words, as a priority, we will have nine alternate Members, one of the eight groups and one independent MEP. Then, as far as possible, I propose that a single list of speakers, including all Members registered with the electronic system, should be drawn up. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats supports the motion for a resolution tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and the I may be using the first of my own, but this is a decision of the Conference of Presidents, where we discussed the basis and what happened last year and before. I say to you, orally, so that there are no questions, that our card can say number 24, but we can be at 76, because, as you understood, they will then come in, we will be in front of 23 and 25, but we will be in the circles that will be in the power of the parties from the Services and tomorrow the whole list will be announced. The circle of speakers will be as follows: Each cycle will consist of twelve Members of the first five parliamentary groups, six of the SYRIZA, three of the New Democracy, one of the Democratic Alliance, one of the Golden Dawn and one of the JRC. The members of the River and the Centro Union will be exhausted by the first cycle. The Group of Independent Greeks will take part in the debate with two Members, the rest being members of the government. These MPs will be shared for the speeches of the general rapporteur and the parliamentary representative. In each cycle, an Independent MEP will enter up to the seventh cycle. These elements the Services know very well and they'll build the relevant algorithm to get into the line eventually all of us. Any changes in the order of subscribed speakers should be made in exceptional cases with the approval of the Bureau and only with the document of the Secretary-General of the Parliamentary Group addressed to the Bureau and with the need for mutual change by the end of the second sitting. Please take care of this, because it's not right. As a matter of fact, there is a pressure on the directors and directors of the Services, when on an individual basis someone comes in and says, "Put me tomorrow." If there is no paper from the Secretary-General in this regard, we should know who will change and take place on the horizon of any further meeting at all, the next day there is a mess, which is not right at all. We will make every effort this year, as we have done in recent years, to speak as many Members as possible, namely everyone who is asking for the floor. And last year and again all those who asked for the floor spoke. This will be possible if we are all confined to the time we are entitled to, and if our meetings start at the very time that has been set on the agenda. That is why I would stress, ladies and gentlemen, that the time should be stricter and that the meetings should be started at the time that has been planned. The morning meetings will start at 10.00 a.m. and will be completed no later than 12.00 a.m. without interruption, except on Friday 14 December 2018 when the meeting will be concluded at 15.00 a.m. for the well-known reasons. The sitting of the last day of the debate, Tuesday 18 December 2018, will depend on the remaining speakers and the remaining speakers and will be known on Monday 17 December 2018. I propose that the speaking time of the general rapporteurs should be twenty minutes - just as last year and before -, the Special Rapporteurs should be twelve minutes, of the Chairman of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group and Prime Minister 30 minutes, of the Chairman of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group and of the Chief of Civil Liberation Staff thirty minutes, of the Chairmans of the Democratic Independent Group PASOK - DIMAR, of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, of the JRC, of the Independent Greeks, of the River and of the Union of Kentors twenty-five minutes, of the Deputy Minister of Finance - Fifteen minutes, of the Deputy Minister of Finance - ten minutes, of the Minister responsible for Finance - of the other Ministries, 10 minutes, of the Deputy Minister of Finance - eight minutes. Parliamentary representatives shall be entitled to speak for twelve minutes, but if the chairmen of the parliamentary groups are presided over, otherwise they shall be confined to the time of the second reading, i.e. six minutes and three minutes of the third reading, in accordance with Rule 167(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. Also, the speaking time for speakers on the list will be seven minutes. On the afternoon of the last day, the Heads of the Parties and one or two Ministers will speak, because the Minister of Finance will close or speak just before the Prime Minister. We'll see about that. Conversely, the power of the parties, as we have said in the Conference of Presidents and as always, will be closed with the Prime Minister. I propose that today's sitting ends at about 12:00 at midnight. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u3	The House therefore agreed. The general rapporteur of SYRIZA Mr Dimitrios Vettas is called in Stepa.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, in January 2015 we are committed to dealing with the second in the country's collapsed programme of financial aid, as the Samara - Venizelos Government, taking additional measures of over EUR 25 000 000 000, is unable to implement the programme. Since April 2014, the fiscal sizes of the country have been falling apart, the gaps in the primary surplus exceed 4,000,000 euros, the differences between targets and the outcome of GDP exceed 6 billion euros, unemployment slaps and at the end of December is 27%, the unemployed in the country reach and exceed one million, seventy thousand people. Already 40% of Greek citizens' income has been lost and the debt has reached 180% of GDP. Over the next two years, in 2015 and 2016, our government must find 54,000,000 euros to return to the lenders. You know very well that this money was never there, because there was never any process of relief, settlement, restructuring of the unthinkable Greek public debt by the Government of Samaras - Venizelos. The opportunity, therefore, to escape is the early elections for the President of the Republic by bringing in and using the Hardouvelis Bay. They send a card with measures of EUR 1,000,000,000, but creditors respond by sending them a paper containing a primary surplus of EUR 29,000,000. They took 25,000,000,000 euros plus 29,000,000 euros, the new measures. So you fall under the burden of your failure. I am using this report as an answer to my colleague and my fellow Member, the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Stakoura, who mentioned a few days ago in the Committee on Economic Affairs that the four years of the memorandum were ours and were unjustified. I've just described the necessary measures for you. Now I want to describe the unnecessary measures. These are our own unnecessarily years and our own unnecessary measures. We are able to agree on very low primary surpluses. It's a key point. We are given the space to do two things: to implement budgetary objectives and to direct money to those social groups that were affected, they were severely hit in the years of the crisis. So these four unnecessarily old years are doing this: we take two and a half million of our fellow citizens, together with their families, half of Greece, which was uninsured, and lead it to public free health. So we drive them to the hospital and the doctor. These first four years of our own, we are deleting EUR 30 million from the ILO and we are not claiming another EUR 150,000 000. You know, ladies and gentlemen, what was that? When a man was hospitalized and went out with the best of the hospital, since he was paying the five-year-old to get into it, he was at his house, at his step, before he even went to it, certain of his debt. This is called public health ‘made by New Democracy’. We have captured and always believed, and we believe that the country should come out of this crisis, with social cohesion, with society upright. And that wasn't a proposal, it had money behind it. We had to turn incomes, we had to turn funds into these social groups. So what have we been doing these four unpleasant years? In 2015 and 2016, four hundred and fifty thousand people of ours joined a very important programme, the program to tackle the humanitarian crisis. In 2017 and 2018, six hundred and thirty thousand of our fellow humans benefited from the social income of solidarity. Unnecessary measure, too? From 2015 to 2018, two hundred and fifteen thousand people and more were able to find work through the public-benefit work programmes. Unnecessary, too! Also, thousands of people were able to find work through training programmes in public and private bodies. Unnecessary measure, too! So look first at your own budgets, now, immediately, and find how much money you have turned into social budget, poverty, to the people on the margins, to poverty. In the last three years, then, we have spent the last three years making money there. In particular, because we do not speak vaguely, 4,000,000 euros went to the people who needed it. We have therefore made the package of the social budget five times. We are going to the other unnecessarily years, in 2016, in 2017, in 2018. From the surplus, a huge part of the Greek people benefited from the social dividend, which was over 2,000,000 euros. In addition to the positive measures I have mentioned and the positive measures that I will mention a little later and which are reflected in the 2019 budget, and if we add the social dividends to all of them, then I think that the great fairy tale - let me - and the great misinformation - is that we take ten and give one, it is not the case, but, above all, it cannot fool that part of the Greek people, which has benefited because it deserved it. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2019 budget is an expansive budget. Give it, it doesn't take. It is an expansionist budget because the country has changed irrevocably. We have followed laws and rules because of this fact, but also because of the significant improvement in the macroeconomic sizes of the Greek economy, today we can change the mix of fiscal policy. Today we can give. We're not getting it. Therefore, the budget has no budgetary constraints, no spending cuts, no tax increase. On the contrary, it has reduced contributions and taxes and increased social costs. I list the measures. The gradual reduction in the income tax on legal persons from 29% to 25%, 1% per year. The reduction of HPAI to alleviate those of our fellow people who have low-value real estate, up to a maximum of 30% for 2019. The non-payment of a trade fee for farmers' members of agricultural cooperatives, for school cooperatives, for social and solidarity economic operators. The reduction by 1/3 of the insurance contributions of the free-traded, self-employed and farmers. These are measures adopted a few days ago. The subsidisation of 50% of employers' contributions for young people up to 25 years old. Housing subsidy, rent subsidy for three hundred thousand families, who have a house they rent or have a house they took on a loan. The reduction in the taxation of distributed profits and the recruitment of more than seven and a half thousand people in the social "Special Education" and "Help at Home" programmes and the abolition of the measure to cut the personal disparity of main and ancillary pensions, which we voted on yesterday. These are voted only by governments that have taken the country out of the memoranda. So we have come out of the memoranda, we are voting for relief measures, positive measures for work and for healthy - we insist, healthy - entrepreneurship. Because for us this is extremely important. The country is therefore out of programme since 21 August, either the New Democracy and the PASOK accept it or not. We understand how uncomfortable it may be and how awkward it is to rule forty years, to put the country in the memorandum, and how awkwardly you feel when a government that did not participate in the food takes the country out of the memorandum. From the first moment, ladies and gentlemen, you realised that the programme was being completed and that things would have a good, happy ending, a government confiscation began, a misinformation and essentially a deception of the Greek people. Because I cannot understand how all the rapporteurs in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy should speak about two budgets, ten days ago. But the Government and the Commission had discussed and closed the question of the non-reduction of pensions. So, what was the reason for ten days before speaking and not admitting that this matter was over? So you continued your misunderstood at other levels. We also hear you here in the House and in the media compare Greece with other countries. "The country did not come out of the memoranda, while other countries came out of the memoranda." I'm being honest with you. You know very much that the countries with which you compare our own country did not have our own structural problems or such a public debt - I would remind you of 180% of GDP - and especially those countries did not have CIFs, they did not have C4Is, they did not have massages, they did not have lobbies, they were not stealing, they were not cheating the Greek people. I continue my answers to the big questions raised by the New Democracy. I read exactly what the rapporteur of the New Democracy said: 'The programme has failed because its main objective was not achieved, which was to create the conditions for the safe and clean exit of the country on the markets'. But, I think the only condition for a country to come out on the market is to have finished its financial programme and set up its debt. I think we're doing this, and I think we did it and you didn't. I think we all remember in this Chamber the screaming of the New Democracy, especially that the country's public debt is sustainable, that is, without any intervention from this Greek people, it can be served under these conditions. I would like to link my answer to the debt, because there are some things in the public debt increase. Anyone who goes to the budget issue understands completely that the design is the drop in public debt by 12.6 percentage points in 167% in 2019. We took the money on the one hand, and it's our money, and we put it on the safety pillow. There is no increase in public debt. I had to - you say - claim the rest of the EUR 24 million million, that is to say raise the pillow more. Excuse me, a month ago you said the country had to go to a credit line? That was our main disagreement, wasn't it? A credit line means money given by measures taken. The country had to take action. The country had to stay out of the Memorandum, keep going. I can hear the rapporteur from the new Republic, Mr Stavoura, calling on us to increase the pillow. I don't know, I think people are changing views and I would like to officially welcome New Democracy to SYRIZA's proposal on how we should protect the country's exit on the markets. ‘The increase in the outstanding debts of private microprocessors to the public’ you say. But, ladies and gentlemen, you know very well that the large part of the debt belongs to big ones. The 80,000,000,000,000-85,000 euros from 100,000,000,000 euros belong to big shots. In fact, the increase is justified by the increases in the debts of companies that are still in liquidation. So it cannot be logical, then, that your claim that private debt is mainly increased by micro-projectors. You are, of course, accusing us of increasing revenue and that this increase comes mainly from overtaxation. Anyone who sees the budget will see two things: with predicted growth of 2.5% and private consumption of 1.1%, the increase in VAT is 1.04% of indirect taxes and 1.5% of direct taxes. The truth is that tax revenues are increasing and increased significantly, but to see how they increased: They have increased because of economic activity, ladies and gentlemen, and I think that there is no question that anyone you accept, whatever you want to accept. As a result of the increase in economic activity, this was, according to the ADI data, a period of January-August 2018. Revenue shall be increased by EUR 624. We'll tell you later how the revenue was found. Revenue is being improved because of the continuous - and here we are - of improving tax compliance by targeted controls. You know, the APR that you broke up, did an excellent job. It was not only undeclared work, but it also did an excellent job in the revenue inflow. They have therefore been submitted through the voluntary compliance programme - and it is a great honour for this government which has managed to bring such a programme - five hundred and seven thousand applications. Controlled income reaches 100,000,000 euros. This tax, which has been paid as a major and additional, exceeds, ladies and gentlemen, the 800,000 euros of the New Democracy and PASOK. The checks which have increased - RCF - during the tourist season have resulted in the greater collection of VAT, as reflected in the periodic VAT declarations in the third quarter of 2018 - who wants it and whoever finds it - and, of course, because of the extension of electronic transactions. A recent study by IOBE shows an increase in total revenue by around 800,000,000 euros. It is true that we have delayed e-commerce - we understand it, we should have been in the country for decades - but I think if you were still ruling, you would have delayed more decades to bring a bill, such as a voluntary disclosure of income, because this is a class issue for you. You'd never hurt it. So let's go get a pension answer. Good work on revenue, tax controls, tourist control, good work on ECA, employment - more than three hundred thousand of our fellow people work full-time in most of this - and the use of the property of agencies, insurance institutions and the arrangements gave the opportunity together with tax revenues, as I told you yesterday, the government to lift the measure of pension cuts. Work started by this government the next day since his vote, because we really thought that doing the job we were doing - and it turns out we were doing - would overcome this obstacle. So we have heard from the New Democracy and the PASOK that we have set up the Public Investment Programme. Today we sat it down, yesterday it was reduced. Ten days ago you said we had reduced it. Ladies and gentlemen, the Public Investment Programme is the largest programme in the past nine years, whether you want to admit it or not, and it is exactly the same as the year we are going through. But let us see the programme and what it is: it is directed - it says - at major infrastructure projects, on employment, on entrepreneurship, on education and on health. There is also the EUR 1 000 000 million national strand which goes for emergencies and, above all, goes for regional policies. Who told you, however, that the evaluation of a public investment programme is based on its level? So, is a public investment programme better than a EUR 10 000,000,000 public investment programme of EUR 9,000,000? We must therefore also see its quality management, not how much money we have, but how, and why, we have them. Anyone who has read the European Court of Auditors' survey what it sees? Someone could go through it at google and the people who hear it step on and see it. What does this report see about you, the New Democracy and the PASOK, for the management of the EDP by you? It notes that the cost per kilometre of road projects increased by up to 69% compared with the initial budget. You're managing public money. Who gave this possibility? Who gave permission to pay a 69% more project? It shows, of course, that you received almost 50% of the project, half of it. You paid 70 percent more to get half of the work. This is called a quartz, but with "foreign gums". The third important thing is that you signed contracts with private concessionaires prior to solving major problems. So what we've been dealing with was "frozen" works, bolted works. There were very large loose ends in expropriations, very large loose ends in archaeological matters, very large loose ends in thousands of issues. We've found concessional claims recently. They asked you for 1,200,000 euros. We won 764,000, and you have the courage to tell us that the rest of the 430,000,000 we gave it as a banner. But listen. We're absolutely certain you've had a lot of absorption. In absorption you were really the best. And what contractor wouldn't run to get a project three times cost by delivering half of the work? It is not advice, but it is a position: When the New Democracy and PASOK talk about PPC, about public investment projects, for bridges, for tunnels, for contractors, for roads, they should be very careful because the Greek people are angry, indignant and remembered. So you should be very careful. Because of political culture, I say it, for your own good.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Vetta, you've got two more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President. So we heard them talk about permanent austerity. But the basic conditions for the country to come out of the permanent austerity are to come out of its economic programme and make a debt settlement. We did it! And today, through this budget, we are going through positive measures for the world. Write to your medium-term stuff - you talking about austerity - in your medium-term. Anybody overthrows will see primary surpluses of 32,700,000,000 euros. For the last year, the year we have spent now, such days, for this time in the Greek Parliament - if you were a government - you have brought to your medium-term primary surpluses of EUR 11,500,000, the death of Greek society. I'm finishing with potential GDP. You know, it's like the joke someone asks from someone in two hundred, he gives him one and says, "We're even. You owe me one, I owe you one. We're okay.’ I am telling you this, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done. Listen to what you voted on in the medium term: Increase of indirect taxes of EUR 9 000 000. Increase in direct taxes of EUR 9,000,000. Slow down wages and pensions 1.400,000,000 euros. Reduction of funds for social security and care 15,000,000 euros. With EUR 35,000,000,000 cuts, you had predicted an increase of EUR 57,000,000, according to your rapporteur, and - oh of the miracle! - you anticipated and increased private consumption by 2%. In a person who has 100 euros, you cut him 40 euros, he lives with 60 euros, you tell him to shop 120 euros to get 12 000 euros. I think that, if it is not in political science, at least it is in the hands of the Greek people. Mr President, I'll be done in a minute. I'm in my close. The 2019 budget, like the previous ones, had as one of the main objectives the maintenance of social cohesion, the whole society standing together. We respected public money. We didn't break it, we didn't tear it apart, we didn't share it with friends, friends and "degree". We tried and we'll try to support the world that for decades has been on the margin, was out of distribution, out of profit, out of the game. We're trying to support young children who are looking for dignity and not the kids who are looking for work through registrars. We have been attacked and attacked by the political forces that have made a mess in this place. We have endured and will endure, because the world of work and healthy entrepreneurship needs us. We can withstand and withstand, because the country has a need for major, progressive changes. In these very great challenges, this government will meet four years, because it was the cleanest and most honest one. The efforts of PASOK and the New Democracy to get through all of this to forget, ladies and gentlemen, it will not be easy to know. Those who ate will not break in, have stolen in the same balance as those who did not eat. Those who put the country after eating in the dark memorial tunnel will not be placed in the same balance as those who were difficult and sacrificed. We also guarantee this more for the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u7	Thank you. We continue with Mr. Vetta's fellow citizen, Mr. Stakoura. Phythiotida introduces us to the new memorial period. We're proud. Here you go, Mr Stakoura, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, the government of illusion, of ideas, of delinquency and cruel and inappropriate austerity ends its term of office with an anti-development, essentially a Memorandum Budget. It is a budget drawn up in conditions of suffocation and misery in the field of the economy, frustration and resignation in the field of society and division in the field of politics. It is a budget to be implemented in a foggy and high-risk external and internal environment: an external environment characterised by a generalised discomfort with the major challenges, challenges such as continuous geopolitical correlations, the escalation of trade tensions, tensions of relief and protectionism, poor detection of new architectures in the subsystems of a troubled Europe, rapid scientific and technological developments, gradual changes in the direction of monetary policy, high public and private debt, demographic problem and mass movements of populations, climate change. But also in a turbulent inner environment characterised by a pond economy, which continues on its dry edge and by a society of pessimistic, depleted, unsafe and by a government, the government of Mr. Tsipras, which every day demonstrates that it cannot offer anything practically positive in all areas of the public sphere. In the economy: households are narrowing, businesses are suffocating. In foreign policy matters, the convenient government proceeds to national harmful agreements. In the management of the refugee - immigration problem, ideals, inability, cynicism, opacity are expressed. In the primary sector, the government has created suffocation conditions for the Greek farmer. In education there is a dominance of short-sightedness and lawlessness in university spaces. In the field of civil protection there is a general insecurity and fear regime. In the field of power management, the government is sinking into disarmament and scandals, by professed officials. In conclusion, the government was weighed with the country’s problems, measured and found to be fatal. And with the only adhesive, political opportunism, without ideological coordinates, will remain in political history as a political convoy. For these reasons, the sooner the government closes the pre-election period in which the country has entered, the better for our country, so that through a major political change the conditions for achieving high and sustainable growth, creating good, quality jobs and strengthening social cohesion can be created. And that is why I will speak to you today, making basic points about the situation that the New Democracy Government will shortly receive in the economy. Ladies and gentlemen, the country remains locked in the strict memorandum line. Heavy austerity policies continue. Budget targets have been kept high for many years, for decades. Public property has been committed for a century and the country is under enhanced supervision, which is primarily known for European data, with quarterly reports assessed by the markets, on the basis of which initiatives will be implemented to enhance the sustainability of the debt will be implemented. And already in the first report there are delays in the implementation of commitments, so the first debt measures that were for this year have been postponed over time. Mr Colleague, SYRIZA rapporteur, debt regulation and height and profile was made in 2012. Look at the budget and for example just look at the goals. But I can justify your ignorance. The programme did not achieve its objective, i.e. creating the conditions for the safe financing of the country by markets. If there were government credibility, if the brave reforms had already been implemented, if there had been more courageous decisions on debt regulation in good time, if the capital restrictions had been lifted - we have forgotten them - which entered in 2015 and if the country had joined the main aim of the Prime Minister two years ago, in the programme of quantitative relaxation, then both the loan rate and the spreads would have been lower and less volatile, as is the case in other countries. Sadly, however, this is not the case today for our country. And because you said something about the indisposed EUR 24 million million, I did say that. I said to make use of the EUR 24,000,000 to build a cash reserve, not plus EUR 24,000,000. That is not to take EUR 24,000,000 from the real economy, just like you got it. I justify your ignorance. Inappropriate surpluses undermine the country's development path, because they are indeed the result of overtaxation by citizens and the internal attitude of payments. Honestly, I would avoid talking about the Public Investment Programme. For example, public investment in 2017 has collapsed at the lowest level of the last decade - these are the official figures of the Ministry of Finance - less than EUR 2,600,000 of the targets that the government had set itself. And as if that were not enough, it cuts another 550,000, 000 from 2019 - and not to tell me that it is not cut, because I have here the holistic plan for which I am going to speak - by sacrificing the Government for temporary impressions and given the well-known allergy that it has in private investment a substantial investment tool for the country, by imposing - given the high multiplier, Prime Minister, who has this tax - an additional, as I called it in committee, a development tax. You are introducing a growth tax not performing the Public Investment Programme. And be careful what the oxymomile is. In the famously holistic development plan on page 81, what do you say? The Public Investment Programme is the main financial instrument for development. I put it, like the previous table, in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In other words, the main financial instrument for development, which is the EIP, is not implemented and you have reached the lowest level. You are incapable of achieving high and sustainable growth.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u9	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u10	Please, Mr. Papadopoulos, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u11	But the institutions also have a great deal of responsibility for long to accept this conscious economic and budgetary irrationality, so that the economy grows at anaemic rates below the initial estimates. It should be recalled that the current government, the government of taxes, seizures and auctions has failed for four years. Four years you have failed in all predictions of growth. All four years! Greece has, indeed, lost potential wealth of EUR 31 billion over the last four years, making it the only negative development surprise in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And because you said something about the primary surpluses, you forgot something very basic. It was agreed at that time that growth rates of 3.5% and 3.7% were agreed. Then, in many cases, the primary surpluses would be achieved by what should be done, by growth, not by austerity measures. You have therefore talked about direct and indirect taxes that would increase from growth rather than austerity measures. I justify your ignorance. Thus the economy is being drawn into a state of paralytic stagnation. The country hasn't returned to normality yet. Let's see 'normality'. Competitiveness - I think we will all agree with global indicators - is retreating. Investments - they say the evidence - fall apart. The quality of the institutions is downgrading. Capital restrictions continue to exist. Wages are falling. Flexible forms of work prevail. Long-term unemployment prevails, especially young people. Deposits do not substantially return to the banking system. The credit contract continues with deeds and omissions by the government to sedation the foundations of the economy. Citizens' debts to taxi and insurance funds have increased by 61% since the end of 2014. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The government's dues, those for which the Deputy Minister of Finance was committed here in Parliament on 19 March that it would be zero on 20 August, are at EUR 2,500,000. I'm filing it in the Minutes. The stock exchange accumulates losses in circumstances in the absence of investment interest. The challenges for the banking system, including dealing with red loans and strengthening organic profitability, are ahead. The liquidity of public entities, such as PPC, is deteriorating and the state is growing. In this unfavourable environment, the government, although indeed, Prime Minister, dresses Santa Claus with her practices, does not convince small children. After going on to seventeen pension cuts and twenty-nine tax increases, after imposing - and we agreed yesterday - permanent austerity measures of EUR 9,500,000, after poorening society, dismantling the middle class, it is now coming fragmented and with a long delay to promote reductions in taxes, taxes which it has imposed and the New Democracy has voted against. I am also presenting after the President of the New Democracy, Mr Mitsotakis, the table of the twenty-nine new taxes brought by the current government. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You cannot, therefore, have a success in baptising the reduction of insurance contributions only to the freelance professionals, because if you read your budget, it says in a way that you failed what you did in 2016, because the income available has been reduced. You alone brought in an increase in insurance contributions. You're reducing it yourself. With regard to the reduction of corporate taxation, how long have you received it? 26%. How much did you take? 29%. It'll get back to 26% in 2021. After seven years, will you reach business tax where you receive it in early 2015 and celebrate? Evidently, neither the unsatisfactory cut in pensions is a success, since you have already voted for it on your own and it was not even included in the third economic policy programme. In any case, since the government continues to take 10 of all citizens' wallets, even so it returns 1 in some's pockets, and this 1 will have a limited impact on growth because - as the European Commission says - not the Civic Opposition - of the small amount and its composition. Therefore, instead of celebrating, the government should look in the mirror. Ladies and gentlemen, these points show what the whole society is aware of. With this captain who has just left and with this crew, the country without compass will not find Ithaca, so we need to change the lines immediately. We must move quickly, decisively, incompatible with resignation, at the end, to moderate. A strong political leadership, will, determination and the implementation of an integrated plan are needed. A New Democracy plan that will enhance the quantity and improve the quality and composition of the country's wealth, with investment pan-strongs of public and private investment, which will bring about more available income for all citizens, which will improve productivity and competitiveness, which will enhance creativity and extroversion, guaranteeing individual well-being and promotion, and collective prosperity, aimed at a better state, building an open, democratic society, but which will ensure transparent and mutually beneficial cooperation between public and private sectors, providing high quality knowledge at all levels of the public education system, extending options through a system of open horizons and equal opportunities for all citizens, which will reverse the increased leakage and scientists and businesses, which will help the country respond to the structural transformation of work due to the technological revolution, which will ensure the systematic development of the systemic - and cost of financing the country from low-costs. What are the main axes of this project? First axis: Simplification of taxation and a generous reduction in tax rates on households and businesses. Priorities, inter alia, are to reduce insurance contributions for all workers. The largest medium-term reduction of ENVY for the whole society, with particular emphasis on the lower incomes. The reduction in the tax rate for natural persons for lower incomes. The greater reduction in corporate taxation. The tax incentives for investment in research and innovation. Reducing VAT on the catering. The brave arrangement of public debt, covering most of our compatriots, excluding strategic malpractices and, however, introducing favourable regulations for consistent taxpayers and borrowers. The reduction of these taxes can be carried out by implementing the frozen expenditure ceilings to all the general government bodies by extending the assessment of the costs of the entire public administration, not by increasing the public sector, by extending electronic transactions, by strengthening public-private partnerships. Second Axis: The implementation of reforms that will enhance competitiveness, with a state that will create a stable, friendly environment for investment, but also for enterprises that will adopt corporate governance rules and demonstrate increased corporate social responsibility. Priorities, among other things, are the simplification of the licensed and bureaucratic environment, the implementation of destabilisations and the exploitation of real estate by developmental targeting, the unblocking of emblematic investments such as Greek, the creation of a productive state with simpler structures, clear competences and evaluation procedures everywhere and with targeted recruitments where there are real needs, through improper procedures, and, of course, the limitation of state embrace in education and the development of a national research ecosystem, harmonised with innovation and technology. Third axis: Enhancing liquidity in the real economy. Priorities, inter alia, are the use of European financial instruments, the implementation of the Public Investment Programme, the complete removal of capital restrictions, the clearing of public debt, the gradual normalisation of credit expansion, the effective return of deposits and the rational treatment of red loans. Fourthly, to strengthen social solidarity towards our weakest compatriots. Priorities, among other things, are to strengthen the budget for the minimum guaranteed income, increase in unemployment benefits, reintroduce allowances for third-country and multitude families abolished by the current government, adopt tax incentives to support the family, with an additional tax on each child, implement digital skills programmes for long-term unemployed and doubling the heating allowance so as to reach at least 60% of the amount allocated in 2014. The implementation of this coherent plan will lead to higher growth rates, they will, in turn, improve the sustainability of the debt by allowing for a gradual reduction in the high budgetary targets, adding levels of freedom for even greater tax reductions, so the country will enter the intended upward spiral.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u12	Be quiet, please. Mr. Stavura, you have two minutes to complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u13	In conclusion, the budget does not meet the country's needs. It tackles the economy and the perspective of mystical. It is dominated by party targets. Fortunately, however, this four-year cycle of irresponsibility, of idealism, of extremism is closed. And Mr. Tsipras' attempt to cut time, ignoring the shortest of his administration, devaluing the intelligence of the citizens, falls into the void. Citizens will, in their decision in the coming elections, open up a new cycle of responsibility, credibility and efficiency. This cycle will be marched with the New Democracy. Besides, in the difficult circumstances, the citizens were always looking for a political solution from New Democracy, the fact that it built up modern democracy, which designed, established and guaranteed the country's European position in 2015, which increased, over time and compared to a better pace, the domestic product of the economy and distributed it more fairly. That is why the citizens, despite occasional experimentation, with their confidence, have demonstrated the New Democracy as the most powerful political force in the country, as the permanent, as the stable pillar of the political system, as the great, patriotic, liberal, social and radical party of our country, with deep and extensive roots in the people's forces. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall conclude by saying that we are now calling for a vision, a strategic plan and, above all, a belief in the ability, history and perspective of the country. Collective prosperity depends on all of us. We, together with all the citizens, will make it. We'll be able to rebuild our homeland on modern bases. We will succeed in achieving a good composition of successful, traditional values with the new ones. We will be able to implement patriotic and truly progressive policies. We will manage to increase, without class-share-sharing, the available income of all citizens. We will manage to be fair in the distribution of the most produced wealth. Because we deserve better, because we can do better! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr. Stakoura. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, fifty-five students and students and three educational sessions from the 1st Bolos High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I call on Mr Scandalidis to step in from the PASOK - DIMAR Democratic Assent. Immediately afterwards, Mr. Karathanasopoulos will speak from the JRC. Mr Panagiotaros will speak last from the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u15	I must say that I have a difficulty coming to Stepma - I do not go up very often - and I have a fresh image of yesterday's inconceivable morality and level of confrontation that offends parliamentary morals and turns politics into a market-based arena. Amid major problems experienced by the country, a country in a whole crisis, Parliament is now called upon to discuss the top parliamentary procedure and give its own opinion on where the country will go next year. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the state budget prescribes, in real terms, the country's course and allows or allows the serious debate to take place on the real, beyond slogans and unrealistic cries, which, unfortunately, the House today is experiencing against coron. In our crisis, the 2019 state budget, proposed by the government, is embodied in the problems and deadlocks that the country faces as a result of its choices. I should like to stress that there is no prospect of a solution from the outset. And that's because he's a budget hostage to the election cycle. It appears to be a galantomus in benefits, having saved resources and incomes with a wild tax raid. It incorporates cumulatively all the commitments and measures that the country has accepted, without the slightest plan for how new sacrifices will not go missing. It does not breathe any development breath, at a time when the country needs it to survive in a particularly difficult international and European context. In my opinion, the budget, unfortunately, looks like a passport to the country and the economy in an even deeper crisis. Let's take the thread from the beginning. In view of the formal exit from the memorials, the Prime Minister expressed his own success story for the next day. I confuse his words: Greece comes out of the market without needing a preventive line of support, recovers its national sovereignty, ends the policy of austerity, starts the era of fair growth. In the weeks following 21 August, the markets continue to look at us insanely, effectively prohibiting our exit to them and maintaining very high rates of interest. The commitments signed by the government and constitute a quasi-memorandum are well held. The superstition attempts to commit the last square of public property, without making any real use of it until now, despite the galantic wages. Greece will live under permanent austerity, under the brink of surpluses. So, a few weeks later, the Prime Minister attempted at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition to land the citizens partially, abandoning the grand proclamations and launching a pre-election period with main weapon, compulsion and appointing on a polarization and scandalology background. We have lived for it before - I assure you - at this time and it was tragic for the country. The anticipated surplus would enable him, firstly, to stop the government-approved voter's voter's vote and is signed by the same further reduction in pensions and to negotiate for a minimum of time a suspension of the increase in VAT on the islands and, secondly, to save resources to be made available to critical elections for SYRIZA population groups. His target was obvious. Since growth failed to achieve the target of 2.5% for 2018, as it remained below 2%, to create the necessary financial space, since reforms have been stagnated and the migrations are cancerous, since the balance of investments remains negative and the existing state is stubbornly resisting every investment initiative, the pie has had to save the surplus from it. That's how we reached 3.6% and at about 7 billion euros. How would the difference be covered? First, tax raid. Taxes on goods and services, for VAT, for excise duty, for incomes, appear to be increased by about EUR 600 million. Secondly, with a significant reduction in the social state. Total expenditure on transfers, social budgets and pensions appears to be reduced by EUR 1.2 billion, as well as the unacceptable abolition of social benefits in the name of pluralist policy at all times. Thirdly, with an increase in the public debts, which at the end of November reached EUR 2,62 billion, while provisioning for zeroing for the end of 2018. Fourthly and above all, by cutting the Public Investment Programme by EUR 550 million, at a time when with a negative private investment balance the public investment programme was the only feeder for growth. Ladies and gentlemen, let us come to this from now on. What does it mean to get out of the crisis, and why is it not served by the government's economic policy and choices? Real exit from the crisis means three things, three unspeakable preconditions: the first that the country comes out of secure steps on the markets, the second that the surplus results as a result of growth and not as a result of further bleeding of development resources and incomes, and the third that the terms and conditions of an endogenous and self-supported development are created at the same time, not with theoretical shapes and vulnerabilities for the future, but with immediate and critical reversals and reforms. Consequently, the question - in order to reach the essence of the country's problem - goes without saying: The medium-term plan adopted by the government, with all these commitments that are quasi-corporate a memorandum, and the budget that implements it as the first crucial step ensures the dynamic development orbit on which the Prime Minister supports his campaign for fair growth? Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, not for you, but for the country, the answer is a huge 'no'. None of the three conditions is met. And I can explain: The country's exit to the markets, which would be the day after the formal expiry of the memorandum, tends to become a loop in our neck. The Prime Minister's lionisms on the markets that will dance at our pace, which accompanied his refusal to accept the credit line, is evolving into a major problem, which will pay and pay for in the next few months, Minister, the country. In a Europe that, when it was experiencing a high growth rate, the government was charging the country with its ruthless experimentation, when at little cost we would go out to the markets, Greece would watch the trains pass. And now that Europe, and because of external conditions, concerning world trade, its internal crisis, its retreat to global competition, seems to be entering according to all predictions on an existing orbit, the country has no defence shield. No predictions. No design. Yet the Italian problem seemed to be with the naked eye that it even comes near. Today we are living with the stress of high interest rates. We are living with the forced impairment of the pillow of an economy consumed in election benefits, instead of investing in development, and in permanent structures for redistributing wealth. Of course, when the election cycle is over, the crisis will return further. My firm knowledge of having you first, as our anointed people would say! I now come to the question of development and surpluses. In reply to Yannis Koutsoukos, Minister for Finance, you have made a very good point, which I agreed with. If we look at 3.5% of the surplus, it is certainly a permanent austerity regime when the country is developing at a slow pace. But there is a dynamic change that will lead to an extended development policy. It's your hope, it's your plan, it's your opinion. It is also written in the budget, which will not happen. The question is what makes you think that with the policy of the current government, that is, with your own policy, we will reach the desired rate of growth? It is a development that requires productive reconstruction, reform policy, active development institutions and the mobilisation of the country's productive potential. What kind of productive reconstruction are we talking about? With the slow potential of small and medium-sized enterprises that are narrow and dismantling the spine of the economy, when everywhere you meet only closed shops and businesses? What reform policy are we talking about? With a state that resists any development effort, which you cannot even agree to if the investment in Greek begins, when instead of reform we only make unreasonable appointments? What development institutions are we talking about? With the pyramid of democratic planning weakened, self-government without supplies, resources and administrative mechanisms, the state centralised and bureaucratic when, instead of radical changes, we complete decomposition and cultivate the transaction in the municipalities? What production potential, which will guarantee high growth rates, are we talking about? With the biggest capital in the country, young scientists leaving it, at a time when the main burden must fall on innovation and new growth, when instead of incentives to return, the process is becoming increasingly degraded and the institutions of education weakened? It is clear that it needs a radically different concept and strategy for development. It is necessary that the regions of the country acquire a name that stands in competition, domestic and international. This, in turn, presupposes the maximum possible mobilisation of productive forces and, therefore, a different state, which is becoming a pilot and not an adversary to development. A real revolution and redesign of the institutional formation of the state, which starts from the base and mainly by brave decentralisation of governance, which dismantles the symphony of powers and interests installed in the center, regardless of party positions and other positions. In order not to claim any moral right in this Chamber, it must be understood that this historic cycle has been closed and that another historic cycle must be opened, not for the innocent and the guilty, but for politicians and parties who have in mind to take the country forward rather than backwards. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] That is why the problem of development is mainly a problem of democracy. Without reconstructing the state, the high rates are fencing and, unfortunately, with your political practice you are brutally insulting democracy and its institutions. We tabled our own proposal, the 'Greek Plan'. You'll tell me, "You'll have to say the same thing. All parties have the same objectives.' No, we're talking about the conditions and the terms. We are talking about active policies, we are talking about the next day, not as a future plan, but how, with its first actions, a government can change things from the next day. This is the qualitative difference between a line that has in its nature and its nature the planning and effective governance of the country, a component capable of governing the country, as shown by the multitude of members of our prolongation throughout Greece. Such a change also involves another budget, a budget that does not focus on the endless codes on the basis of which the administration of the centre is legitimate in the region, the enforcement of executive power in the representative institutions, the enforcement of the state of the defenceless citizen. Another allocation of resources is required for new decentralisation of governance, regional reinvestment and balance of the wealth produced. If the development choices and the respective powers, in an integrated economic and administrative form, are not attributed to the institutions that will bear the burden of growth and mobilisation of productive and creative potential, fair growth is underwent. But let us not talk at all about speedyness. Ladies and gentlemen, until then what should be done or better than where to begin? Of course, with a view to bringing about a government capable of changing the country - and it is not credible - in order to respect the limits of its relationships and commitments, to renegotiate a number of critical aspects of these commitments, a renegotiation which neither the conservative party has to say a fundamental reason for the surplus that must be reduced as a matter of urgency, for the debt that has to be further restructured, for the insurance that must be restructured, starting with the abolition of the inadmissibility of the Katrugalos Act, to redesign for the working relationships that must come back under the social acquis, to change the structure and functioning of the surplus which cannot be a treasury broken over the country. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is a time when we must realise that only the Greeks united in the clearing, giving Greece its lost strength and credibility, is enough to realise that we can no longer draw on 'three of oil, three vinegar', on how much the guaranteed income will be if we cannot agree on which source it is produced, how it is distributed and, above all, how it is increased at the same time as the production of the new wealth. Do you think that under conditions of polarisation and division, unreasonable conflict and criminalisation of public life, the absence of substantial dialogue and torture in different respects, can the country be orthodox? Do you think that, with yesterday's picture of the two gladiators, either the 'Greeks can' or 'fair growth' can emerge tomorrow? Excuse me, I, an optimistic man, feel sad about a political system that refuses to heal the pathogens that he created. But let me close with an optimistic wish. Let us strive to give our democracy and political life the oxygen that it lacks. The group, which I have the honour to represent, will give this battle as she knows, with a sense of national responsibility, with a strict commitment to progressive values and policies, with the belief that we can ensure the right to dignity, both for Greeks and Greece. The political overthrow, ladies and gentlemen, is not a mere aim of a party, the progressive and democratic party. It's a condition of survival and development of the nation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr. Scandalides.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u17	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u18	He wants the Minister to say something.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u19	We must not interrupt the rapporteurs, but I want 30 seconds for a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u20	Mr Scandalides is present in order to provide clarification. Alas, it's positive. Mr. Chaakalot, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u21	Mr. Scandalidis said a lot of serious things. I'll answer for the finances. But I wanted to make a clarification, Mr Scandalidis. Indeed, yesterday there were things and speeches that do not honor our political system. But do you think that our side told some traitors that they sold Macedonia?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u22	Yeah, that's what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u23	Is that what you think? Do you think it's the same...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u24	And the Minister who is next to you...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u25	Can I ask you a question?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u26	Please don't shout. Mrs Christophilopoulou, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u27	I'll finish in 15 seconds. All you have said is serious about the political system and the responsibility all sides have, except for one and you understood what I mean. I think you should be a little more careful. Mr. Mitsotakis' speech was a divisive speech that I have never heard in my life. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I really didn't think so. So we are right to discuss the conditions of the political conflict, but not to smack them all and say that everyone is the same, because we never said yesterday that there are traitors here. In fact, the Prime Minister said that there are reasonable grounds to disagree with this agreement. Maybe it's not the best. We support it. That's important, Mr. Scandalides.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u28	Mr. President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u29	However, if Mr Scandalides wants to do so, he can have the floor. Mr. Loverdo, you have the right, but I think, because he was directed...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u30	Minister, I don't know exactly what the Prime Minister used yesterday. I confess, I don't know what exactly words. You believe that in this Chamber on a daily basis the words "German german, traitor, people who have been subordinate, who have been delivered to interests" in the last three years...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u31	For the last three years have you heard this from us?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u32	For the last three years in this Chamber...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u33	Who from here has said the word?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u34	I'm sorry, but he's not responsible.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u35	Please let the Minister answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u36	Is this not a government responsible for how the debate was conducted yesterday in this House? Is it only the word said by Mr Mitsotakis or the words exchanged in their personal duel by the two leaders, the Prime Minister of the country and the Chief of Officerial Response, and indeed by putting national issues on the agenda in a field of controversy that the country today does not need?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u37	You're saying that again.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u38	And I say: for this policy, is the government not responsible for this image of the House, when this climate has been cultivating all this time?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u39	Thank you. The general rapporteur of the Communist Party of Greece, Karathanasopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u40	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u41	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u42	Please, ladies and gentlemen! Please, Mr. Gregoraco! You're an old parliamentarian. Here, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u43	Thank you very much, Mr President. During the five-day debate on the state budget there will be a lot of questions, many dilemmas will be put to the debate, but they will be aimed at overhauling the real question. The real question what is it? Why would the watch of history turn back? Why would the new generation live worse than the previous generation instead of living better? Why should a number of rights and conquests be abolished, instead of widening, as the development of science and technology and increased productivity and work is defined? Is this situation and picture just a Greek peculiarity? We see this throughout the European Union, throughout the capitalist world. Appropriate and dismantling measures shall be taken accordingly. Why is this all happening? Is it because the capitalist system is a system that rotates and sacrifices the satisfaction of human needs in the altar of capitalist profitability, so that socially produced wealth accumulates in increasingly fewer hands, as evidenced by the evolution of world wealth and what hands does it belong to? So, for the JRC, it is really new that goes hand in hand with the season, that is to say, it is the people who enjoy the wealth they produce. It is to use the achievements of science, technology to work under better conditions, with less working time, with better income and improved social services...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u44	Please be quiet. Mr. Gregoraco, sit down, please. Excuse me, Mr. Karathanasopou.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u45	... which will ensure a much better level of life, with free time to come into contact with culture and sport, to enjoy the beauty of nature and life, with its housing needs in modern homes, within an integrated spatial and town planning, with free spaces, playgrounds, with integrated systems of earthquake, anti-military and anti-nuclear protection. But how are these going to be? We call it clear. With the socialisation of the concentrated means of production, which will liberate the great unprocessed growth potential that Greece has today and which can satisfy the people's interests, when all economic tools enter the service of the people, when the wealthy sources of the place become social property and trade in state. With these tools, the new power we believe to design the economy centrally, to give strength and growth to the industries and regions, to develop agricultural production next to the socialised sector of the economy to ensure adequate, healthy food products for the people, but also raw materials for processing. Thus, the anarchy of production that characterizes the capitalist system can be definitively eliminated, the capitalist jungle can be eliminated for as long as possible. Only then can the economic crises be permanently eliminated. So, then, people's power can exploit and distribute the entire workforce of the country, by eliminating unemployment, shaping terms and conditions to eliminate the causes of female inequality and by supporting the relations between the two sexes in full, their will for a family, without any economic incentive, protecting motherhood, children and the elderly, by guaranteeing the right to work, by abolishing business activity in health and welfare, in order to develop an upgraded, exclusively public and free health and welfare system. This is how people's sport and culture can develop. People's power can abolish military expenditure on NATO's war imperialist plans, proceed to unilateral deletion of debt, which is the product of capitalist management.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u46	Please stop talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u47	The releasing of the country from the chains of the European Union and NATO will create favourable conditions for the conclusion of beneficial international cooperation relations with all the countries of the world. Is what the JRC says good, but is it impossible? Are any of these things called romantic and dreamers or, as some of them are described as thousands of them, living away from reality and referring everything to the Second Presence? However, this question has been answered for a long time and very clearly by a poet's verse: “I do not hold back! I'm going down! Dropu! The ancestors of shame! I'm being masturbated! I'm hungry! Shh. Shh. Shh. Shh. You will eat in the sky!' So, unfortunately for you, it is the managers and apologies of the capitalist system that refer them all to and invoke the Monday Presence. The JRC's proposal is realistic and necessary, why? It contributes to the working class and the people, responds to modern needs and how they will be satisfied. Because realism and necessity are above all that life and prosperity go hand in hand with the progress of science and technology. What does he need? Just the people's decision to put bourgeois order in the time of history and get the power and keys of the economy the working class along with the allied social strata. But will anyone say: until all of this is done, can the Tsipra government, the SYRIZA - ANEL government do anything, at least? We are clearly saying that the new era and the change of course claimed by the SYRIZA - ANEL are empty letter for the people, and the state budget for 2019 proves this too. It is a state budget which is unfair, is classic and leads to the escalation of the anti-population attack against the working class and the rest of the populace. It is a budget that is a tool for redistributing socially produced wealth from the less poor for the benefit of business groups, business elites, capitalists. It is a tool for implementing the plans of the bourgeoisie and the necessary adjustments to be made to help capitalist development. With the State Budget for 2019, the tax raid continues to take place in the face of popular strata. A billion above taxes will be called upon to pay for 2019 compared to 2018. In other words, the next day is not accompanied by any tax relief for the people, while, on the contrary, large capital remains unavoidable by paying scandalously - and if it will pay about 6% of all tax revenue. A second element of the state budget is expenditure reductions. The benefits to workers will be reduced in relation to 2018 by EUR 530 million. Total pension expenditure is reduced by EUR 275 million. We have a reduction in funding in hospitals, when they are willing to collapse. And yet the government, in the new era, at the time after the memoranda, continues to further reduce state funding to the hospitals. We have a reduction in funding for the OTAs so that the resources from the fees, local taxes, from the compensation system are even higher. We have a reduction in state funding in insurance funds of EUR 935 million, resulting in an increase in the insurance contributions of workers and self-employed persons. The government can celebrate as a success the failure to abolish the personal difference in pensions, but it is a challenge that this celebration, when there is no restoration of the enormous losses which have been suffered over the past years and the SYRIZA Government - ANEL, the pensioners. Of course, much more is a challenge when it comes to compensate - as the Committee's communication on enhanced supervision of Greece in November 2018 confirms - for the non-cutting of personal differences is the pension freeze by 2022, which will have the same financial effect as the Commission says in relation to the failure to abolish the personal difference. That is to say, again lost will come out of all pensioners because of the non-taxation of their pensions. And that is not all, of course, that there is this loss. At the same time, in the name of non-cutting, the government has gone ahead with the abolition of a number of social intervention measures - countermeasures - EUR 1.7 billion - interventions relating to the extension of the School Lunch programme, the expenditure on the creation of nurseries, the reduction of the expenditure on rent subsidies and the abolition of expenditure on the non-participation of pensioners in pharmacy. So a state budget with an increase in tax revenues and a reduction in government spending is not even extensifying, Minister. But to be more precise, he has a point that you're saying. What's that? It is a budget that is restrictive with regard to the people's layers, their needs and their rights, and on the other hand it is extensive with regard to the interests of business groups. For example, in the name of compensatory measures you are subsidising companies with the insurance contributions of young workers. Is this or is it not a subsidy for business groups and not a subsidy for new workers? You are reducing the surplus - which is paid with their blood by people's households - the tax rate for business profits. What's that? A class bias in favour of whom? In favour of business groups. And not just that. Reduce the rate of taxation of distributed profits. Who are you reducing him for? For the people, the workers, the unemployed, the retired or the economic elite? It's for the financial elite. It is a challenge that the economic elites you protect pay only 10% for the distributed profits, while the employee, the retired, the farmer and the self-employed pay 22%. So the state budget turns out to be a very chic, a very useful tool for capitalist development. The equitable development you are saying is a step on the ruins of labour and popular rights imposed by the Memorandum Laws, which have been made to shield the competitiveness and profitability of business groups. In spite of the formal termination of the memoranda, these mechanisms have been formulated, reproducing a cheap consumable labour force, without any structured labour and insurance rights. The liberalisation of the labour market has led to the demolition of labour rights. And all this together, where did it lead? The results are revealing. Most of the jobs created are fixed-term and project contracts, i.e. part-time, part-time work and part-time work. They're rotating contracts. All this has led to the intensification of labour, which has led to an increase in fatal accidents. All this led in 2017 to 25% of the workers being paid less than EUR 500 mixed. All of this led to the average wage crashing from 1,011 euros in 2014, reaching 982 euros in 2017. In order not to be viewed as all this is the fault of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, the works and days of the New Democracy and PASOK are revealing. One report of the congress says this. That in 2009 to 2014, employees lost 38.6% of their income, self-employed lost 40.3% of their income, the unemployed 43.8% of their income and the pensioners 32.5%. Here are the works and days of the New Democracy and of PASOK, which of course built the foundation of these anti-grass laws. And, of course, everyone - and SYRIZA and New Democracy and PASOK and others - is revealing to you the report by the International Labour Office, which is your advisor, if I am not mistaken. What does the International Labour Office say? That from 2008 to 2017 each year on an annual basis, the actual income of employees decreased by 3.1%, i.e. over 37% to 38%. So here's what the result is. And of course, it is not just about work and the relationship to labour issues. SYRIZA - ANEL Government took the baton from New Democracy and PASOK to complete the demolition of the insurance system. And the Katorugalou law just completed this crime because you reduced the rate of pensions from 70%, which was 33% to 43% depending on the years of service. Where did that drive? To reduce pensions. The minimum pension on your day is set at EUR 413. How old was it before? He was 716 euros with the CSCE. How much did the pensioner lose on the minimum pension? He lost 300 euros a month. This is the result and work of the Katrugalo Law. You've increased your retirement limits. You've increased contributions. You increased the participation of pensioners in medical care. So, most of all, what did you do? A step further, from a redistributive nature and social security, you have turned it into a reward, making insurance individual responsibility, so that the worker is forced to resort to supplementary insurance in order to get through. What about the supplemental insurance? In other words, you are sending him to the mouth of private insurance companies either with private contracts or with professional funds. That is why it is no coincidence that in recent years you have brought two European Union directives which make it easier for private insurance companies to act, as you did yesterday, in yesterday's bill. So the Katrugalo-insurance abortion incorporates both the spirit and the letter of the Pinochet insurance system. And, of course, it's not just the workers. Self-employed, professional and traders, in addition to tax raid and insurance lotteries, have to deal, in the name of opening the closed professions, with the activities of monopolistic groups, multinationals and multi-shops thus being forced out of the market. When the Government is addressing farmers, it calls on them to put back on their support for the profitability of monopolistic groups and if they also have no crumbs, entering with monopolistic wolves in the fold of inter-professional organisations, symbolic agriculture, the various PDOs, which were announced a few days ago by the European Union that feta can also be produced in Vietnam. That's not what Mr. Tsipras said when he went to the Kalavrita. At the same time, production opportunities are being untapped and are being destroyed in order to satisfy modern folk needs. A characteristic example of these is the Greek Sugar Industry. Or you are subsidising the withdrawal of fishing vessels through the European Union's programmes. So the fair growth promoted by the government does not give any new advantages to strategic investments? Is Mr. Drasakis' law in consultation? Scandal privileges. It uses all financial tools to meet the needs of monopolies. Your fair development is stigmatized by the bloody primary surpluses by 2060. But all this is about developing anemic and uncertain, because of the slowing down of the global economy, the exacerbation of competition and the contradictions between imperialist centres and the major economies, which also involve Greece in the context of geostrategic upgrading. The government turns Greece into a signatory of US planning, increasing the risks to territorial integrity and sovereign rights. All of this is done in the context of a gloomy controversy that escalates between SYRIZA and the New Democracy, a controversy which seeks to hide and cover the agreement between these parties in the policy that serves the needs of capital, the policy of the European Union, to the objectives of the urban order for geostrategic upgrading. You seek through this controversy to promote the renovation, as well as the armoring of the urban political system. You want to lead to a reduction in people's demands at the level of charity programs and nothing else. You seek the caging of the people's conscience between the Dog and Harybden to choose every time its power.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u48	Two more minutes, Mr. Karathanasopou.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u49	I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. This dispute, however, has one purpose. Who's that? For who will give the best guarantees that he can implement anti-popular policy either by whirlwind or by carrot. And, of course, all the remaining parties on the Euromoney are on this road, and the Golden Dawn is a treacherous anti-patriotic party that wants Greece to become a tax haven for business groups. Because he every time invokes the examples of Bulgaria and Cyprus, he builds offices for cheap work without rights, attacks the weak to protect the bosses. In other words, it is the executive arm and the killer arm of the system. Instead - and we say clearly - the people are looking to find the differences you have and the New Democracy or the PASOK, which are infinite, better to make the difference and to trust the JRC today with determination, to strengthen it. Why? Because it is the guarantee of a much stronger popular movement that will step on the labour unions and trade unions, it will step on the organizing bodies in the people's neighbourhoods and promote the social alliance for the popular counter-attack that will mark the real opponent, the action of monopolies and the system that ensures capitalist profit and not just the managers every time for more overall ruptures and reversals. In this respect, Mr President, it is clear that the JRC is voting against the State budget for 2019. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u50	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u51	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u52	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. I just want to make one remark, one correction. The observation, Mr Karathansopoulos, is that you have not studied the draft by General Pinochet in depth. I propose that Mr Karagunis, who probably knows that much better from you and from us, should give us a seminar in both Parliamentary groups - I do not know whether KINAL would like to have any involvement - because, believe me, it is very different from what exists. Now, I'd like to make a correction for the hospitals.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u54	That's not in the process. I mean, to God.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u55	Why are you interrupting me?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u56	For Mr. Karaguni...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u57	After each rapporteur, will the Minister take the floor to comment?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u58	It is not after every rapporteur. I want to make a correction.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u59	This is not a parliamentary procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u60	It's not even interrupting me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u61	Don't fight, Mr. Chakaloto, please. I run the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u62	To make a correction for the hospitals.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u63	It's not a conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u64	Come on, Minister, wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u65	I wanted thirty seconds, you gave me two.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u66	All right, Mr. Chakaloto, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u67	Will you comment on what each speaker says? To God!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u68	I didn't comment. I really don't understand what my colleague says. I think it's confusing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u69	No, don't comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u70	Regarding hospital expenditure on page 86 you will see that there is an increase of 242 million. It is also for staff, medicines and health material. If you don't see the transfers for primary health, I think you'll agree with me that you've given a picture that doesn't describe what's going on in hospitals. That's all I wanted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u71	Good. That's all we've got. And the first thing about Mr. Karagunis is that we don't keep it, and neither does Pinochet sound much in here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u72	Mr President, just a minute's speech, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u73	Here you go, Mr. Karathanasopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u74	Very soon I'll answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u75	This is not the case, it cannot be commented on by any speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u76	Mr Chiara, because the Minister for Finance does not precede some clarification on the substance of this first basic cycle, as clarifications, is not...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u77	It's not a process.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u78	Mr. Tsakalotos chose, obviously for Mr. Scandalidis and Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Here, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u79	Mr President, first of all the Pinochet system is the well-known trixate system that has brought...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u80	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u81	He's talking now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u82	I say, first of all, the Pinochet insurance system is the well-known trixate system, which has been brought by the Katorugalou law. National pension and proportional on the basis of sustainability, professional funds, second pillar and private insurance, that's trixide, that's trixide. He's got the same core, the atomic core.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u83	So, I'm right about the seminar...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u84	Secondly, for hospitals, Minister, I said very specifically: State funding is falling, and even it is falling by 95 million. Of course, funding for the funds may remain stable, but it is about transferring these amounts to the back of the insurance funds. In other words, you are transferring hospitals' operating burdens to the insurance funds themselves, while, on the contrary, you are reducing state funding to the hospitals. It's very clear what I said. Instead of being upgraded, instead of having better funding to meet the needs, you, either one by one, or with this funding, are actually leading to the remaining bankrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Katsikis, rapporteur-General of the Independent Greeks, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, although we are talking about the small government partner, we are probably not focusing on the attention of some people, so the noise in the Chamber, Mr President, is not the best thing we are talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u87	Are you kidding us? From your party, there's no one...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u88	Because, Mr. Kegeroglu...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u89	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u90	No, leave us to me, will you? You're the kind of fuckers that surround you to talk like that, not to me!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u91	Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u92	And because my party is nobody here - and it is indeed not - I am not bothered by anyone, because it is not and will not be called. You lack respect! You're so rude if you want to hear it!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u93	Wait a minute, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u94	Ungodly!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u95	And you, Mr President, must finally protect me! You're making an observation and you're not ashamed!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u96	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u97	You are the one making trouble in Parliament and you have the courage to ask for the change! Shame on you! Shut your mouth!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u98	Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u99	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u100	Mr. Kegeroglu, wait a minute!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u101	Are you talking about rudeness? Mr. Kegeroglu, stand in front of a mirror and spit him out until your idol is dark! That's who you are! If you want, and all the time, I'm here!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, please, wait a minute!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u103	No, Mr President, wait a minute. You let me complete a subject that has been created...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u104	Mr. Katsiki, I speak unheard. Do you like that part of the cries, gentlemen?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u105	Are you telling me?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u106	No, I'm not telling you. Anyone who wants to calm down and go out! That's what you need to do now, and you don't listen to us when we talk! Mr. Katsiki, keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u107	I therefore said, ladies and gentlemen, that having successfully completed the last budget, the programmes, i.e. the Memorandum Programmes, as it was carried out in the course of this year, we are now in a position to discuss the 2019 budget, the first budget for the memorandum of Greece. This is the reality, a reality that has allowed us to design the future with confidence and vision, once again putting the economy on a stable orbit. We have confidence in the fact that we have brought our mission to an end, while we have had a fait accompli of negotiation and political manoeuvre, as a result of past manoeuvres and previous governments' commitments to lenders, because, for example, the surpluses may have been agreed at very high 3.5%, but let us not forget that the previous government had agreed 4% and 4.5% for the three-year period 2015-2018 which would mean additional measures of around 20 billion euros. Nevertheless, we are saying that we have succeeded and reduced the partners' resistance and we have finally convinced them. Have you ever wondered about the cause of the successive objections, objections and disagreements that have been raised for many years by foreign officials and their staff towards the Greek proposals to manage the economic crisis? The question, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and PASOK, is addressed to you and, of course, is a rhetorical question, because our creditors' objections over the years have had a substantial justification. They were right to react and they didn't trust us, and I'll tell you why. Because, for the most part, they were due to the inconsistency of the words and works that Greece had shown in the past. And when I say Greece, I mean the rulers who have been at the wheel of the country since the beginning of the economic crisis, who have unfortunately proved to be inferior to the circumstances. That was why the foreign partners did not treat Greece as an honest and reliable interlocutor and, unfortunately, this was the political legacy left by the New Democracy and the PASOK. And the question is rhetorical, because it is quite clear that you will never accept your responsibilities, and above all, you will never admit your mistakes, because you do not have the political courage to recognise the successful government policy that has been implemented by us and which, unfortunately, sets out the inadequacy that you have shown even though you have had the historic opportunity to manage the economic crisis. So the result of your own failure and inadequacy all of us know about it, both within borders and outside borders. Within the borders, the Greek people paid the most cruel way of incompetence, maladministration, inconsistency, irresponsible social measures, unrealistic and irreversible austerity policy, outside the borders, the country was repeatedly swept away, lost part of its sovereign rights - at least as far as the self-determination and planning of economic policy - was concerned, while the speculators' party was not perfect. This is the overwhelming difference between our policy and the policy of the Government of New Democracy and PASOK. The social policy of the previous governments for the Greeks was sufficient to provide festivities and holidays - I remind you of them and let us not forget that - in order to replace the loss of the constantly falling purchasing power. PASOK and the New Democracy have mismanaged the country for decades and led citizens to the 2009 crisis without any institutionalised protection measure. After ensuring the rescue of the economic elites, they were content with releasing their own government responsibilities and carrying the burden of the exclusive responsibility to the people themselves, underscoring the future of Greece. This is your work. This is the case you left to Greek citizens. You have brought the memorials, you have committed the country, you have promised the future of the new generation and you are now coming to criticise. All this had to happen, in order to change the hands of the country's ruler three and a half years ago, to give the opportunity from the Greek people to another political link to assume responsibility for managing the situation at a time when all policy mixes had failed. The Independent Greeks have been committed to historical responsibility and have decided to co-operate with SYRIZA we have been firm in our commitments to the Greek people and have successfully carried out our primary mission. Today we have every reason to feel proud having led the country out of the memorials, having terminated the period during which our national dignity was affected, having laid the foundations for a better future for Greek households. We have finally entered a new era and this finding is clearly reflected in the 2019 budget. The figures provided for in the 2019 budget are accurately captured and accurately illustrate the leaps that have taken place in recent years following the three previous budgets carried out in court and have led to today's success. And that is understood by a simple regression and comparison of fundamental sizes of the Greek economy over the last five years, which I would like, ladies and gentlemen, from this step to be reminded. Others have said it, but I will not get tired of repeating it again. I begin with unemployment, which in 2014 was 27% - no one disputes it, it is a fact - and today it is under 19%, since three hundred thousand new jobs have been created from 2015 until now. And don't forget that undeclared work in 2014 was in 19%, and today it's 12%. In addition, from the beginning of 2019, the minimum wage shall be increased and the minimum salary shall be abolished for young people. I would remind you that in 2012 the minimum wage was reduced by 32% for young workers. We are gradually reintroducing collective agreements and we have extended ten sectoral agreements for two hundred thousand workers, who have seen an increase in their incomes. Do not forget the situation in the insurance system in 2014, when it had a deficit of more than EUR 1 billion. EKA today is a surplus, noting a surplus of over 800 million euros, and we have institutionalised the reduction of 33% of the main pension contributions to free professionals, self-employed people and farmers. Of course, it is well to remember that in 2014 there were over four hundred thousand outstanding pensions, and today they are far less than eighty thousand. The progress made, therefore, by the SYRIZA - ANEL Cooperation Government, is clear and soon the impact of these steps will be felt by the majority of Greek households. This is because, with the budget being voted on, HPAI is falling by EUR 260 million, the housing allowance is EUR 400 million, the reduction in insurance contributions is EUR 177 million and the premium for insurance contributions for young workers is EUR 51 million. And, of course, let us not forget the return of the retrospectives to the EUR 850 million uniforms, a subject that we have been so mocked at in this House, ladies and gentlemen, accusing us of failing to implement what we promised, reversed the irreversible political tactics of the past, as was exercised by the governments that are today condemning us from this Step in this Chamber. So, ladies and gentlemen, we understand our debt to Greek citizens and we go ahead with these decisions. We go on and do it. Our debt to society is served by the increases to be made to about six hundred thousand pensioners since 1 January 2019 - this debt is being served - and by the cancellation of the measure of the pension cut, through which about one and a half million pensioners will be relieved. And that's the last thing that haunted you, ladies and gentlemen of counterpopulation. You weren't expecting it. You bet on their impoverishedness, but it didn't come out of you. Why, then, do you not rejoice, since it benefits such a large number of our fellow humans? Do you know why? Because you're resentful. The government's successful negotiation cannot be accepted. Greece has achieved the impossible. She managed to achieve her budgetary objective. It achieved a primary surplus, without the need to implement this measure, which was not a structural one. But you are still constantly critical. This fireplace that you did, really, for the twenty-one cuts we supposedly made in pensions, do you have a way, ladies and gentlemen, of proving it? Do you have a way of counting them, one, two, three, five to twenty-one? Obviously not, because otherwise you would have done so already. The examples, however, that the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr Petropoulos, listed during the debate in the committee, are, therefore, substantiated and therefore non-disputable. To be fair, however, I must also recognize a great quality of your knowledge: your unique ability to supply misinformation. You're really unscrupulous. While, according to your own single governance, reductions have exceeded 50% - in most cases of supplementary pensions, 57% - and from pensioners, EUR 63 billion has been deprived, unregulated, you are leaving the current government for cuts. So number them. Say numbers and amounts. Say from 2015 to today what cuts this government has made to reach the number twenty one. Our commitment to the non-cutting we have defended it from the outset and we have even convinced the lenders on this issue. We are reintroducing the economy, ladies and gentlemen, and this is tragically difficult for you to accept. You claim that in the years of your government, reductions are compensated for by replacement factors. But can you say such arguments, when the fall was so rapid, that no replacement coefficient was able to act in balance, and when the supplementary pension of EUR 650 was made EUR 278, that is, a reduction of 57%? What factor could work effectively? Nobody. You, therefore, have, with mathematics, handled reduction rates - with a growing trend - and not a coefficient of replacement for lost people's incomes. Why do you not refer anywhere to the thresholds of the main pensions, which were doubled by your own provisions in relation to those granted with the old system? Why do you hide that with the retirement of January that will be paid before Christmas, there will be no cutbacks, but six hundred and twenty thousand pensioners instead, our fellow people will see increases in them after the recalculation based on Law4387/2016? The government in the highly structured insurance it has been called upon to manage, responds with the design of a comprehensive long-term sustainability scheme for the insurance system, based on a development and not on a punitive logic based on participatory justice and solidarity of generations. Contrary to you, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, your design is reflected in the statements by Mr Kyranakis, who were clear, comprehensive and indicative of your thinking and showed the sequence of your actions. While you are tabling an amendment to the pension cut, you have stated that when you come to the government - I say 'if you come to the government' and not 'when' - you will examine and decide whether you will reduce pensions depending on your cash. So what else can characterise your policy if not demagogy and populism, when at the same time that you tabled an amendment to the non-reduction of pensions and the abolition of this measure, through the statements of your spokesman, you did not know if you would be able to achieve what we were asking for in your own amendment? Mercy! Tell us, if what you're saying, they have any logical sequence. You do not understand that major national efforts, ladies and gentlemen, require political cohesion, which all of you are constantly stumbling up. It is politically small of you not to recognise the government's success in canceling burdensome terms of the memorandums, such as the reduction of insurance contributions to free professionals, young scientists and farmers, and the return of retrospectives to special wages. To deceive, as the Romans have said, is human, but to insist on error is - I would complement today - conscientiously dishonest. All of you see our fight, all of you understand it, but none of you recognize it. You torpedo him, undermine him, muddle him, seeking to believe even short - term political benefits. But to know that ours will always be equality and social solidarity. The regulations introduced by Law 4472/2017, which concerned the reduction of the personal difference from 1-1-2019, were dictated - as you well know - by the need to successfully complete the second assessment, to achieve the financing of the Greek economy and to create an environment of stability and gradual development. However, these data have now changed significantly. After the completion of the fiscal adjustment programmes and the final exit of the country from the memoranda, Greece has been able to achieve its budgetary objective for the primary surplus without the impairment of the personal difference from pensions. Improving employment indicators and thus strengthening the labour market in the context of the recovery of the economy have shown that the measure of the reduction in pensions is not economically necessary, since the balance and sustainability of the insurance system has been fully guaranteed. In conclusion, the protection of the pensions already paid at the level of 31-10-2014 strengthened the fundamental principle of respect for the legitimate expectations of the insured and gave the Government the power of the proposal to abolish the reduction of pensions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u108	Please complete, Mr. Katsiki.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u109	I'll be done in a minute, Mr. President. Calculate the time of interruption.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u110	I also removed the fight's time, despite the fact that this can be an incentive to other fights. I took him out of time, and again, it's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u111	If the other fights are like mine, then give the others more time. However, right now, I want your tolerance, filling out the twenty-minute time and not the twenty-three minutes, because the three minutes were the fight. So let me end up in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u112	That was a three-year-old fight, that is, three minutes. Please, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u113	To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to vote for once again the need for political consensus and cohesion policy in the interests of the citizens of the country. No one can ignore that we Independent Greeks remained consistent and firmly committed to our goal and were able, through the present coexistence, to lead the country to memorial success. That is why we are responsible for supporting and voting for the 2019 budget, the first budget of the country's memoranda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr Katsiki. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, fifty-eight students and students and five educational attendants from the 1st High School of Volos (Second Chamber). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Amyras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have just had a very interesting dialogue between Mr Scandalidis and Mr Tsakalotou. Mr. Tsakalotos urged Mr. Scandalidis to condemn yesterday's petitions to Mr. Mitsotakis' House, insinuations and direct shots of betrayal of the Macedonian, as if Scandalides were Mitsotakis' spokesperson. But let me help you, ladies and gentlemen. I would, of course, like Mr Chakalotos to be here, but he's not. He's gone. So the cold beating will be subjected to the present ministers, Mr. Juliarakis, Mrs. Fotio, Mr. Arachovitis, Mr. Santorinios, Mr. Vassiliadis, whoever I see here. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Fotou, you are also concerned with this question, because you have indeed risen up for your treason status by Mr. Mitsotakis - I would like to do a test of knowledge and memorandum: I would like you to tell me which politician had said: "We are asking who the Greek politician, who the Minister, who the Prime Minister can sign up for such a project of divestment of public wealth. We wonder whether such a choice does not mean the last betrayal for the Greek people and for the country. And if it does not mean treason, what is treason?" What politician do you think said that? Can I help you who he is?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u116	No, let Mr. Juliarakis answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u117	Do you have anyone in your mind? Who can officially speak of treason? Can I help you and tell you who he is? It's that politician who pledged public property, the property of the entire state, for ninety years in the troika. Who is it? Alexis Tsipras! His statement was made on September 29, 2011 and made against George Papandreou, when a French magazine had published a news that the government of George Papandreou was then preparing to sell public property. So, what are you talking about traitors or treason and you don't want to be called traitors? Have you withdrew these allegations, this toxicity that you dispersed and found - such as the water sponge - the Greek society? Did you get the toxicity back? You haven't taken it, and now you're washing it. Now you like the toxicity of betrayal, because you were the first to talk. And I have other statements from Mr Tsipras on 'bugs', on 'German gypsies' and on 'prosecutors'. Unfortunately, you do not have the elementary bravery to go out and say, 'We were wrong'. You don't even have the bravery to do. I'm so sorry! [[Noise from the ministerial benches]] Also, yesterday in this Chamber Mr. Kammenos implied that Mr. Kotzias made a secret agreement under the table with Zaev. If that's not treason, what is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u118	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u119	Today came the "Pratto" and Mr. Kotzias, who is your partner...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u120	Mr. Amyras, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u121	Mr President, please. You'll have to enforce the order. Don't refer to me. Tell the chief ministers to be calm.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u122	Mr. Amyra, wait a minute. In my opinion, do not use words that you will not be proud of after.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u123	What words?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u124	Repeat words that should not be heard here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u125	What words? Who? The word "suspension"?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u126	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u127	Your Prime Minister called it, Mr. Tsipras. Are you going to drive us crazy now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u128	All right!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u129	Have the bravery to recognize your mistakes. In addition, you have the elementary comradity to support Mr Kotzias, your partner and until the day before yesterday's Minister of Foreign Affairs, against the entire Kammenos. Unless you think Mr. Kammenos was right yesterday to suggest that Mr. Kotzias made a secret agreement under the table with Zaev.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u130	You're welcome, Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u131	You've chosen a camp. You're hug with the far right of the ANELs. You're in a hug and you're going all the way down and down together. [[Noise - protests from ministerial benches]] What do you disagree with? Let me hear you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u132	Mr. Amyras, please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u133	Not me. Please tell the ministers. Do not yell at the ministers. They'll listen if they want to answer later.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u134	Mr. Amyras, let me. And I'm telling you, because you're a new politician, give the example of another style. If you want to hear it, if you don't want to, you don't hear it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u135	I beg your pardon, Mr President, what do you mean by giving the example of another ethos? What do you disagree with what I told you? Didn't Mr. Tsipras say that? Didn't he name a traitor to Mr. Papandreou on September 29, 2011? Does it scare you that I repeat, burning up the use of such characterisations, by any politician? Well, that's enough! Let me now come to the question of the budget, so that the ministers can relax. What would be nice to do their self-criticism, huh? How far ahead would they be? But don't you see? They cover Mr. Kammenos against Mr. Kotzia for the Macedonian. What else do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u136	Tell us about the budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u137	Don't be in a hurry, ma'am. I'll come to the budget right away. Do you know what George Orwell said? He said and said he needed a great deal of effort to be able to see beyond your nose. And this debate is an opportunity for all of us to see the forest, see without blinkers, leave short-sighted eyes and develop the plan that the country needs to finally become a normal, normal European country. The lies are over. Political time, too. The budget, which we are discussing, is the first after the end of the Tsipras - Kammenos Memorandum - in substance of funding, because the memorandum remains - and the last of the current government. The country has entered into a tough, quasi-minor, of course, pre-election period and it is very likely that we will have the parliamentary elections together with the European elections and the municipal elections next May. That is why, unfortunately, it is not encouraging that in a pre-election period such as that in which we are - most people choose to speak with lies, choose to fire the ears of the world with illusions, fraud and fraud of the type of Thessaloniki programme and promises for better days that have never come. So it is time to begin and speak with truth, because on our horizon and the horizon of the economy, there is no hidden paradise, which is as close as we are to be. Rocks are, sharp rocks. And, unfortunately, the 2019 budget shows that it cannot see beyond the nose of its authors. We have waited for a government - whatever government - in its budget to unfold a national project beyond the memoranda and the troika. However, the draft in this budget is not available for two main reasons: The first is that, although the Tsipras Memorandum - Kammenos was completed in the summer, its commitments will follow the country for too many years. Supervision is strict and hands tied up. The second reason why there is no plan within the 2019 budget for how the country will come back to light is that the government's economic policy - it itself - undermines growth and the path towards economic calm. Just last week the Commission, in its first memorandum of assessment, found that none of the sixteen reforms we have undertaken as a country - that is, the Tsipras - Kammenos Government with its memorandum - has gone ahead. And to say that there is no serious reform within them, no difficult or strange reform? The first thing that has not been done is the repayment of debts and debts from the public to private individuals, the liquidation of debts to private individuals. The second thing you have not done is the development of the primary health care system. The third, which the Commission has not already done in your first memorial evaluation, is that you have not gone ahead with the recruitment of general secretaries to the Ministries without a party identity, as well as many of the licensing procedures. Nothing's going on. The absence of a project is obvious and obvious. Other issues, such as, for example, the ten thousand recruitments to the public to replace the priests, whom the state will continue to subsidise constantly, are dominated by the government's agenda. The illusion of the success of the social dividend also prevails when in fact it is the return of a small fraction of what the citizens themselves have given through overtaxation. The government walks with Scandalology as a weapon. We have prosecuting premises. All this makes the work of justice more difficult, precisely because the citizens are starting to think that justice, judicial authority, is a puppet of executive power. The shallow definition of this government is illustrated by what they say to us, indirectly but clearly: 'Let no reform of these sixteen that we have committed ourselves to doing and not do. At least we're going to be hiring and benefits. What will the lenders do to us? We have, moreover, the pillow which, for about two years - and less - has been keeping us alive. The problem is not the lenders, but the markets that can be proved - and have proved - far worse than any bloody troika. Here on the markets ends the delusion and the difficult ones begin. What's the big deal? We are the only country that came out of the memoranda without having secured access to the markets. A few weeks ago Mr Tsakalotos stated that we do not need the markets and access to them. But more reminded me of the fox, which doesn't make it a hanger. If we want to get into normality - I say it in a way that you might understand it better - creditors must trust us. The public must be able to meet its needs autonomously. Only in this way will we be able to develop the National Reconstruction Plan. And that is why the government cannot present a development programme that convinces not only the markets, but above all the productive mechanism of the country, the political system and the citizens in the end. I told you about the pigeon, which is not far from being taken out by the government as a conquest, that we have a pigeon for the next eighteen months. This is another delusion of SYRIZA. Instead of working on how we will not break this pigeon, so that we do not attract the'markets' - words by Mr Tsakalotos - of the government's main concern is how to spend the 'cushion' of security. As long as we are out of borrowing, banks are down working, large businesses migrate, pressure accumulates in small business and the professional, liquidity is zero in the market and clientele is reduced. I remind you we have banks with capital control. Does anyone remember that? So who can speak of the memorial - supposed - paradise? What this budget does is undermine tomorrow in terms of yesterday, with its clichés yesterday, not only on the subject of market access, but also on the real and fundamental sizes of the economy. We are the first to increase taxes between the countries of the euro area and last to investment. Achievement of Tsipras - Kammenos. We are the first to create overcrowding and last in development performance. Another feat of Tsipras - Kammenos. Every year we lose GDP growth targets and at the same time drain the economy from taxes, contributions, fees and any kind of burden. This is an element which, of course, is based on the perception of any citizen. The government overcompensated everything and everything, it suits both public and creditors, so that they don't lose contact with power. He turned all the "no" into "yes", failed what he had promised and forgotten all the commitment he had made. But it created armies of post-mortem officials, when - I remind you again - to return to Mr Tsipras's words - in 2015 he committed himself to abolishing the post-mortems and trusting the people of public administration. That's air words. He signed the operation of the U.S. Office for ninety years, the one who described Giorgos Papandreou as a traitor, for a perpetuating project, supposedly, of divestment of public property. And to be precise, for another ninety-seven years. Two years have passed since ninety-nine. The worst thing you've done as a government is that you've broken up the real economy with the overcrowds of 4% and on conditions of recession and anaemic growth when you've been talking in 2014 about bloody overcrowding of 1%. According to the data available, since 2015 overflows have exceeded EUR 11 billion. Where are you saying the surpluses went? The 2 billion went to social dividends and the other 9 billion to SYRIZA's surpluses, ladies and gentlemen, - and especially those of SYRIZA, if you don't know them, find out - they went to the lenders' pockets, to the vaults of the lenders, who have committed their donkeys, because whatever happens, this government is tired of cutting pensions, to taxing in order to make surpluses and to send money to creditors for the repayment of loans. In the first memorandum, the public debate was held for the wrong IMF multiplier. In the years of SYRIZA we can talk about the austerity multiplier of Tsipras, who has imposed budgetary measures painfully to the detriment of the growth and incomes of citizens. No one has understood why since 2016 there have been beastly surpluses of 4.5%, when forecasts and agreed targets by this government were for 0.75% or 1.75%. The government became the good child of lenders at the expense of all of us and especially the economically weaker. That is why we cannot achieve any development goals. Last year, Mr. Tsakalots told us that we will have so many investments that we will not know what to do with them and we will have to put a potion in order to prioritise them. According to ELSTAT, the investments in the third quarter of 2018 decreased by 23%. The government provided for other in the previous budget. We used to say the same thing last year. You told us last year that we would have investments increased by 11% this year. We have a great deal to do in the nine months of the year, and if we get to 0%, we will also be pleased. But for the government, it's all good. Didn't we succeed this year? It's okay. Next year. No problem. No one can explain how, by applying exactly the same policy, it will achieve a better result than what it did not succeed last year. In 2017, ladies and gentlemen, we had the lowest growth in the Eurozone. This year we started with a target of 2.7% and we'll celebrate if we catch 2%. No problem again! Did we not achieve the 2018 target? We will be able to achieve it in 2019, with this budget, and provide for an increase of 2.5% in the mean of elections and impulses which, of course, cause a stagnation in the economy and anger on investors. They have, however, reduced unemployment, and that is true. Unemployment in February 2015 was 25.5% and now, in September 2018, it is 18.7%. We must, of course, get out of these elements of the jobs lost due to the end of a tourist season. According to the figures of the "ERGAN", in October, a hundred and twenty thousand jobs were lost. 62% of the new recruitments are part-time and only 38% full-time, while over six hundred thirteen thousand Greeks and Greek women are paid a monthly gross salary of EUR 378. In other words, the economy does not produce, creates high-qualification and high-paid quality jobs, but positions of 300 and 400 euros. But we saved pensions, as you told us yesterday in the bill that we discussed the non-implementation of a measure which your Government twice made state law. The pensions, however, have already been cut by 30% for those retired under the Katrugalos Act from May 2016 onwards. The tax-free limit has been reduced, thus increasing pensioners' reservations. Also, all pensioners - old and young - pay more accurately their food and medicines with VAT to 24%, which you increased from 13%, and then proceeded. As we read in the budget, therefore, employment programmes for thirty thousand unemployed of EUR 260 million are being cut, the one-off reduction in the corporate tax rate. It was 26 percent on Samaras. Samaras in 2014 left the tax on business at 26%. The populace, left-wing government Tsipras - Kammenos came and went 26% to 29%. And now it reduces taxation, i.e. it takes it to 28% for 2019, and it goes out and tells us that "we are politicizing our investment." You did the same with the wine. By decision of Mr. Tsakalotou, you put a excise duty 20 minutes in the liter of wine. You have smashed small wineries for three years, you have created areas to develop the black market and now you are supposed to come - supposedly - heroic, but also a little bit of mourning, because it is no longer taking you - since, as we all know, you first and last have put a special tax, a carpet, in wine - to tell us that we are withdrawing it and that it is a pleasant news. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] No, gentlemen, this is not the pleasant news. The good news will be when you leave this government or the good news would be to apologize to the winemakers for what you have caused them. You have zeroed this increase from now on, this special levy on wine, not because you are good - supposedly - and merciful politicians - the opposite is the case - but because the Council of State annulled the Ministerial Decision of Tsakalotou, with which you imposed the raisin on wine. Another great victim of the SYRIZANEL government was public investment. In this budget we read that it will be reduced by EUR 300 million. In addition, half the aid for the insurance contributions of young workers is being cut. It was EUR 103 million the subsidy and you took it to 51. Ladies and gentlemen, a lot can be said about this government. All we will certainly all agree is that on your day the most won are poster, party employees. I read in the budget that while you have cut off the heating allowance, while you have disappeared the CSCE, the pay of your poster and party officials has increased by 16% in one year. In the same year private wages fell by 2.9%. Work, sucker you, in the private sector, melting from taxation, so that various poster and party people can be paid richly. We have seen, of course, that in the end there is not much distance from a pizza player, who is an honest profession, and I respect it, to a misadord! We must explain to both this Chamber and you the financial staff. You know who I'm talking about. And if you don't know, we should give you some pictures of the Maximos Mansion with this incredible guy, sir, photographed in the Prime Minister's podium.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u138	Mr. Amyra, your time is up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u139	I conclude, Mr President, by end. The new budget therefore mirrors the deadlocks of this government. It is full of deceit, and in terms of growth, both in terms of investment and jobs, and, as George Orwell would say, in order to close as I started, this budget cannot be seen in front of its nose. Of course we are voting against him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u140	Mr Marios Georgiadis, General rapporteur of the Union of Centres, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u141	You have won the Panathinaikos, Mr. Comrade! Bravo!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u142	We won him together, Mr. Loverdos! We played as a Parliament of the Greeks with the veterans of the Panathinaikos. These are the pleasant ones, because we are discussing the unpleasant today.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u143	Mr President, the basketball team of the Parliament has won the Panathinaikos wrestlers. This is recorded as important.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u144	Yeah, that's recorded as important.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u145	Eventually, only the wrestlers can lose from the Panathinaikos!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u146	It is good to have some pleasant and joyous events, because, unfortunately, the budget alone is not joyous! I would like to say something else. We are talking about the state budget, which is perhaps one of the most important debates on the Greek Parliament, and that is why it lasts for five days. It is time that the general rapporteurs are speaking and in the Chamber there are five ministers, one Member from New Democracy, five from SYRIZA, three from PASOK, two from the Potami and two from the Communist Party of Greece. This is the importance that the Greek Parliament attaches at the time of the parties' suggestions for the state budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u147	From the Centro Association, Mr. Georgiadis, how many are there?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u148	Mr President, you represent SYRIZA and that's what you're saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u149	Because I have a "supervisory" image from up here. That's why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u150	Does it matter how many of them are from the Centroon Association? I say that the general picture in this Chamber is that they despise this very important debate and that the state budget alone is not a budget. Because you have already tabled two or three different budgets that have "traved" in Athens and Brussels.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u151	From the river is two-fifths of the MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u152	I mentioned about you. You've got the two-five. I'm one-five, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u153	So?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u154	So we have a relatively greater representation than SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u155	Wait a minute, Mr. Georgiadis. Are you also a speaker and a listener, that is, at the same time?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u156	And Vice President of the House!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Mr President, for being President and representative of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u158	Well done, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u159	Why, Mr President, should you be objective and not a friend to whom you belong?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u160	I take that as a joke. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u161	If colleagues let me talk. As far as I can see, there is a situation like when I'm in a panel.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u162	At least, that wing keeps quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u163	When I am in a panel, as soon as I start talking, holidays begin, something that is not done to all other colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u164	They do it to me, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u165	It's not a panel here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u166	I see it is happening here on a systematic basis at the moment. I didn't have time to talk. I judge what I see, which does not honour Parliament and the budget that we are discussing at the moment. I've spent three and a half minutes and there's been so much vacation. [[At this point the Member of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr Vassilis Kegeroglu moves towards the headquarters of the Union of Centres]] Thank you, Mr. Kegergulou. If you want, we can discuss your possible move! It is time finally, after two - three versatiles released right and left Athens - Brussels and so on, finally to discuss the final versain, which, if anything, does not give you the ability to keep twice as many books as possible. The publication, therefore, which was allegedly presented adds degrees of freedom, supposedly, as is translated in the Minister's introductory note, marks the country's reintegration into the international economic system. Of course, all this has nothing to do with reality. For in fact, and in the face of feasts, I will say it festively, nor a Christmas tree can you bring and order, without asking the troika and the quartet. Anyone who has not seen it, let him read the relevant first report on enhanced monitoring of the Commission, which speaks of uncertain fiscal courses and states that the financing conditions remain difficult for the country as well, but could also hamper development. It also points out that a number of special government reform reforms and reform commitments have not been completed, such as privatisation. I will bring in, for example, the lignite plant sale contest, which has already been extended three times. The Greek at the moment is almost out of plan. No progress. Another painful story is the Athens international airport. And beyond all these truths, another truth is that in this country no record can be broken down. The last castle of populism, the famous "Shoveballs give everything", which actually wrote one story and is an absolute milestone of the unbridled pre-election with borrowers and empty funds, described an entire party, gave a bad example for another and nourished at least three generations, forming one of the political logics that really went bankrupt the country and have at the moment led it to the economic crisis and the memorials. And after she lasted about thirty years, bearing in mind what we have spent in recent years as a country with austerity policies for the past decade, no one has expected that this time will come for her to begin itself - not to say worse - fabric. And yet this has also been done. Just change the moto. Now from Maximos, they say: "Give everything, because we're gone." It's close to "March's Branches", i.e. the elections are coming, the vaults open and existential and non-existent reserves begin to be shared. Because now, really, this government is in the middle of things. A normal yurush, a "singing" as we say, is about to begin in order to get out of a sturdy mortar some thousands of people who come in and are appointed by doors and windows. In the face of a possible confrontation that this government may have - because we do not know that too, one of the polls gives that it is fifteen units back, the others give us four, one shows us that we are 2.9%, the other shows us that we are 4.5%, you cannot believe it and what it will have at the end of the day, so you cannot predict and when we will have elections - you have chosen as a government to promise infinitely billions. And what you've done is really wipe out the middle class and the housewives. Four million three hundred ninety-two thousand ninety-five are the Greeks who in September had arrears to tax administration, five hundred thousand more than in August. As for some 'lives' that you mention and for the infamous regulation of 20 instalments for employees and pensioners - eight months ago I asked a question, Mrs Papanatziou will remember that - we are still waiting to see what is going to happen with that. In fact, it is disgraceful for a government and unfair to its citizens, social policy, but also for the whole country to have actually turned into an endless potash with the logic of 'Bavroyalourou' and 'take the world', making half of the Greeks virtually disgraceful. It is hundreds of associations and bodies who have suffered all these years, seeing the billions whistling next to them, and are forced to go together and in queues outside a political office, by a minister and beg for 10 euros. And, indeed, this crowd is not only natural. Now the tails are electronic. There are dozens of them so-called 'platforms'. For one of the last, the so-called "social dividend", one really needs to wake up at 4: 00' at dawn, not to go for the cut in the vegetable or fish market, but to go to SYRIZA – ANEL e-game and to complete an application, if and when he finds his details properly and is not rejected. This is the "new and modern" brought by the government "SYRIZANEL" and said yesterday the Prime Minister from here to a debate he had with the "new and modern" that the New Democracy brings, of course, to say all about. The fact that the budget has been drafted with electoral logic, deferring growth for the fifth year and with no reference to the country's creative and productive powers, also produces a lot of unpleasant results. One of these is to jeopardise society. A second is to have the economy in a permanent stagnation and uncertainty, and a third is anaemic growth, which has too many questions. So, clearly, the confidence of foreign investors and markets is not restored, but on the contrary, any suspicion is well enhanced. That is why we see instead spread driving and falling to 2%, going upwards to 5%. So what trust is there from the foreign markets to us? This, moreover, appeared once again from the recent, the previous campaign of the ministers who went to New York with the desperate attempt to find even an investor who wants to come for a sample in this country. And we remember the previous four - five attempts, in fact, with the Prime Minister's presence, where he found a single case of investor with his investment scheme, which for a whole year promised that he would come and buy and acquire a piece of the National Insurance Company for about 718 million euros. There's been banquets. Prices have been made. Result? Zero. Fiasco the case. And this investor did wings! The really poor results of our government to date are convinced that investors and foreign markets are incompatible with the SYRIZANELs, which will, as long as they are in power, be excluded from any other alternative source of funding. And we're coming to another castle, which is heading down. We are talking about the law of Katseli and the protection of the first residence and the so-called 'no house in the hands of a banker'. There are nineteen days until the expiry of these protective measures and no one knows what will happen at the end of the day. The most likely scenario is the shrinking of objective values and always remain anxious and unprotected tens of thousands of borrowers. Care has not even been taken to speed up the trial of small and medium-sized claims, which, with recent figures - the end of September - amount to thirty - five thousand six hundred thirty - nine and so many other families are currently in agony. Beyond that, it forces citizens - fifty the average right now, when they were fifty a week before, now they have become daily - to go to legal offices, to get to the last minute and join the Katseli law. For the record and regardless of what will happen at the end of the day with this law and according to the figures of the Symbolist Society, fourteen thousand fourteen auctions were completed during 2018, including six thousand five hundred ones, were fertile, so you understand how many houses eventually ended in the hands of bankers. The government, then, may not make public investment, create new jobs, but distributes piles to poor children, gives firewood to households, used clothes to unemployed, aspirins to sick people. This is your social policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u167	Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u168	That is where we will arrive, at this point, to remind the situation that the Greeks lived immediately after the 1944 release with the well-known to all UNRA. So they remembered those who had forgotten for four years and arable - they have brought back half of them: housing benefits which, at first, were for six hundred thousand of our fellow citizens, at the moment, you are filing it to three hundred thousand, that is, half. Reduction of insurance contributions by freelance professionals. For years these people have said they have been bleeding and they can't afford to go to their family any more. Granting employers' contributions for young people, which started with 100% and is currently being given to 50%, which means around EUR 50 per month for each new worker. And you have the courage to say that this measure will stop the Brain Drain. That's how you advertise it. If we go to the European Commission, however, it tells us that the unemployment rate of young people under the age of twenty-five is quite high, with 38%, and one out of four unemployed is long-term unemployed, that is, over 12 months. Reduction INVESTMENT 30% for property of an objective value of up to 60,000 euros, with an annual benefit of only EUR 45 to 50. Since the abolition of the ENPIA, we have reached a 50-euro reduction every year for some. These are the promises you make. Recruitment of four and a half thousands of teachers and skilled staff for special treatment, when the need to fill gaps in special education has been imperative for years and students with diagnosed serious educational needs are really waiting and their parents tens of times have protested. The most characteristic trick of all the budgets you've submitted as the government 'SYRIZANEL' in recent years is the most famous Public Investment Program, which is practically lame every year to ensure part of the surpluses, which you then baptize social dividends or whatever you want, to make election announcements from the balconies. The systematic implementation of the Public Investment Programme is a confession to the lack of mature programmes for infrastructure projects and clearly undermines development. Other sources of supply of surpluses over the last three years are the drastic increase in tax revenue and the State’s default to the private sector. It's all a big mistake! In fact, all three of these parameters, which I mentioned, are taking points away from all attempts to strengthen growth and employment and, in fact, our country's GDP. However, the only size in which you really improve is recruitment. In particular, between December 2015 and December 2017, we had 12 thousand seven hundred and fifty additional temporary staff, two thousand four hundred seventy-seven additional staff of legal persons under private law, six thousand seventy additional persons as temporary staff, five hundred eighty-six new posters, one thousand ninety additional heretics, sixty-two additional members. And two thousand eight hundred seventy more people in other cases. About twenty-two thousand are all I mentioned. They are the new civil servants, who, together with the five thousand special categories, bear the state budget close to EUR 2.15 billion a year. If the government sincerely wishes to reduce the costs to alleviate the Greeks and not to come here last minute to vote for the new bill you tabled yesterday - we supported it because we cannot agree to pension cuts - with which you 'vote' the previous one you voted, it could simply, apart from ignoring all the proposals of the Centrons' Union, study some of the studies that CEFIM has done and with three measures it could have had a profit for the state budget close to EUR 2.3 billion. One of these is the re-checking of the necessity of spending in all ministries, which would bring down the budget by EUR 400 million per year, public and private partnerships at EUR 550 million per year and the reorganisation of the public sector, which would bring EUR 1.4 billion per year, together with individual proposals as a profit in the state budget. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this budget is not only a draft law. It's really a SYRIZA list with an unpaid benefits we've never seen before. It is clear that this government, although it is in its last - and I conclude with it, Mr President - is doing everything it can to ensure that the 'good year' really finds us with empty funds and until the elections there is nothing left standing and you have destroyed everything. After that, as a Central Association, we will vote against the State Budget for 2019 for all ministries and all the codes, hoping that some time there will be a real budget that the whole House will agree to and favour the Greek society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-four students and students and three educational sessions from the 2nd Kavalas High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The special rapporteur for SYRIZA Mr.Nikos Symmalene has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we are now voting on the 2019 budget, which is a budget which will be kept as the previous three budgets voted on by this government. And I say that it will be maintained, contrary to the budgets of the previous governments, which were of a virtual nature, and have not actually been respected or taken over by the objectives they had to take. In this sense, the Greek economy and the Greek Government gained credibility thanks to the stability it demonstrated as a government to catch the goals it had set, in very difficult budgetary conditions, but mainly thanks to the sacrifices of the very large majority of the Greek people. Thanks to these sacrifices we arrived in August 2018 to finally leave the memorandum. The cancellation of the pension cut measure - because it is a cancellation, not a suspension that you have told us until the last minute that there will be for a few months - was the result of this credibility of the Greek economy and of the objectives that the Greek Government has achieved, I repeat, thanks to the sacrifices of the Greek people. Of course, the government of SYRIZA, Independent Greeks and Green Ecologues, who have been ruling the country for three and a half years, voted to cut the personal difference to close the second assessment. Of course, we voted against it, but the opposition voted against it precisely because it knew that there is a majority that will vote to close the second assessment. I would remind you that New Democracy and PASOK, KINAL and other forces have said that we need to take so many measures and more measures to close the evaluations. When they brought the amendment in the summer before we left the memorandum, to tell us that pensions should not be cut, they also made this safe because they knew that the negotiation was at the highest possible level and that it was a matter of a few months' time that the Greek Government's request and the tough negotiation should be accepted in order not to cut pensions to the end. So for free guys, if you didn't vote to close the second evaluation, and if you were to bring us, supposedly from a pro-lem, amendments to vote on them. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Of course, you have the ability to adapt every time - we recognize that - your propaganda with the objectives, depending on how things are shaped. You have great skill and great experience in this propaganda. In any case, the budget is passed without a reduction in pensions and with all the positive measures announced by the Prime Minister at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition. These measures, many of which have already been voted on, give an expansive - small-scale extension - I am not saying that it is a great deal of expansion - of 0.5% of GDP, but this demonstrates the seriousness of budgeting - after all the objectives of the previous budgets have been achieved - that this budget is also targeted, fully processed and can be implemented up to antenna. These measures, which have been voted on, I say them in titles for the Greek people to remember and to be recorded, because many speakers have intervened after our general rapporteur, who have bombed the budget and the government. Retrospectives for uniforms, judges, universities, doctors were passed. The social dividend is attributed to 1.3 million households. The reduction in insurance contributions to free professionals, self-employed persons and farmers has been voted on. The 50% of the contributions for young people under twenty-five years were voted on, contributing decisively to the further declining of unemployment. The recruitment of the three thousand two hundred eighty-eighty workers in the "Help at Home", which is a flagship program to support and provide the elderly people with no head bed. The recruitment of four and a half thousand teachers for special education will be voted on. The housing allowance of 400,000,000 euros will be voted on. The reduction of the EMSDDA was voted for by 10% for 2019 and 30% for 2020. The budget is to vote for the reduction in the tax on dividends from 15% to 10%, the reduction in the tax on legal persons by 1% on an annual basis, to reach from 29% to 25%. Measures that had not been announced at the Thessaloniki International Fair, such as the abolition of trade tax for cooperative farmers and those involved in social cooperatives and the abolition of the tax on wine, have also been passed. I am, of course, providing that many other positive measures will be voted on and, following the budget vote, during the next few months. So what does the budget foresee? Some basic sizes. Surplus of 3.6%, growth of 2.5%, unemployment of around 18%, increase in private consumption of 1.1%, increase in gross fixed capital by 11.8%, Public Investment Programme 6.750.000, reduction in debt by 12 points, from 192.4% to 179,6% of gross national product. And, of course, within the budget there are some elements that I think are important. Increase in the regular grant of the municipalities by 37,000,000 from 1,723% to 1,760%. The costs of social benefits, which are 2,175%, are transferred from the TAs to the OPEKA. We should know that because some people are talking about reductions in the social budget. Here I would like to say that there are targeted measures of 4,000,000 aimed at strengthening society and dealing with poverty. I'll tell you in letters. Housing allowance, budget 400,000. Enlargement of the social income of solidarity to 1.4 billion. A child's allowance, a budget of 910,000, pertaining to nine hundred thousand families. Extension of school meals, budget 190,000 for six hundred thousand children. Coverage of one hundred and fifty thousand children at nursery stations, a budget of 280,000,000. Subsidy of insurance contributions for young people 51,000,000. Along with them, the minimum wage increase from the first months of 2019, the abolition of the subordinated, while in 2012 they paid 20% of the minimum wage to young people and 35% to young people under twenty-five. Expansion of collective agreements, which have already given rise to two hundred thousand workers. The 2019 budget shall incorporate all positive measures. Incorporates an increase in costs and a reduction in taxes. The New Democracy account, ladies and gentlemen, ends with the budget resolution and, of course, with the other political forces, in fact, in the New Democracy. The question concerns compulsion, and we ask you: what are the two of them? Producer or fourth Memorandum? Because somewhere you're confusing us. On the one hand, you tell us that we have voted for a fourth memorandum and we still oppress the Greek people and on the other hand, a speaker spoke of a lack of benefits. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, the clock ran fast! In any case, what I want to say is this. You also failed as a government until 2014, because you did not catch any of the goals you set, but failed as an Opposition. All the goals you set out. Even the request for elections has been heard for three and a half years: "Elections, elections and this government will fall, etc." Close psalm, crosses! 2019 is an election year and we, with the support of the Greek people, move forward so that we can build a decade-long development strategy, a development strategy that has a social dimension, a development mark, an ecological sign, a development strategy in the context of a European policy, as we want a Europe of workers, a Europe of social cohesion, a Europe of peace and democracy. The measures you have announced, the 5 to 8 billion in the IGC, in vain saying that you will save them from reducing the waste of the public sector, are translated into redundancies in critical sectors of the public sector, translated into an insurance system for private insurance companies. Let us not say 'Pinochet'. In any case, you will hand over the public social character of the insurance system to insurance companies. From there on, we move on with a plan to support the social state, work, public health, public education, the colonisation of public administration, constitutional reform, which upgrades democracy and popular sovereignty, and we tell you that, from now on, a budget will be passed, because the government will again be SYRIZA, with SYRIZA. Democracy in our country will proceed. It will not return back to the memorials, it will not return back to the International Monetary Fund, it will not return to the strife and corruption that led us to the old corrupt political system, which had been ruling the country for decades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u171	The last rapporteur, Mr Panagiotaros, has spoken since the Golden Dawn. Then we will continue with the special rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Mr President. Budget 2019, budget of the former Greek state! Once, when the same budgets came to the vote in 2011, in 2012, in 2013, in 2014, when you were in opposition, there was a bad mess. The meeting didn't start, the committees didn't start, they spent hours endless, you made your shows. Many people have believed you, and now you have voted, and in turn you are bringing exactly the same budgets, the same as the previous Memorandum. For all - and for this budget - we need the authorization of the institutions. It was unprecedented to submit two drafts until you see what will be approved, the bazaar with the institutions if it will have a happy ending on the non-repayance of pensions, or rather the extension of the pension cut, because this is, unfortunately, in anti-national exchanges, the sale of Macedonia's Greekity. A budget that is full of taxes, of raisins, of continuation of cuts, regardless of whether you are trying to gold the pill with any reductions, where, when you have removed from a hundred and give it back one or two, it cannot be considered either that you are giving them anything or nothing at all. Reduction of public investment. For another year - it is the fourth year, if I am not mistaken - public investment is excessively reduced. State's payment stop. Your election announcements go ahead, that all public debts to private individuals will be repaid immediately. Right now that we are talking about debts is about EUR 3.5 billion. We're talking about the toxic primary surpluses you celebrate, no matter most of them financially. You must have been relevant when you sent them to the opposition, from your Prime Minister to the last SYRIZA official. But now you have a big "hot potato" that would dig out. All of you have been telling you since 2011 -- with the first memoranda -- that wage cuts and pensions are extremely unconstitutional and now, after many obstructions, delays, objections, deferrals, appeals, appeals, start to break down the decisions of the S.H.E. that cancel all these cuts and you celebrate that with some laws, such as military retrospectives, you vote and bring them back. No, you're not voting for them. Greek justice has voted, and you are forced to do so, and yet you continue to stand by these serious issues. Let us not forget, of course, the moment when you are playing financial instruments that the Greek public remains the worst, most evil, the greatest ill-payer to the detriment of Greek citizens. Because, as we have said, it owes billions of euros, and these billions of euros would be breathtaking for the free professionals, microbiologists, all who are struggling to cope with this memorial loot. For the euphoria, as you say, primary surpluses - as you celebrate now - you crushed an entire nation. Not only do you pay nothing to anyone, but you are cutting for a multitude of years, as we have said, public investment. As to the end of the Memorandum Restrictions, in August you came out with drum impacts. It didn't sit very well because our fellow citizens were drowning on the land, burning at sea by your inability, so your show was very relaxed. So, for the end of these Memorandum Restrictions, you are disputing yourself in the most emphatic and festive way, such as the fact that a Eurogroup was made to decide whether or not to cut pensions. You are also being denied by the Parliamentary Budget Office with what it says, a budget office that is now staffed with your own people. For ninety-seven years have been tied backwards and have you promised everything in this country and dare and talk about exiting the memorial and national options? Your excessively optimistic budget forecasts are only too optimistic. The hypothetical scenarios on which you rely are paper towers, are towers in the sand. The extremely positive forecasts for the banks, which is an important capital for our country's economy - or so, anyway, you want us to believe - are flawed by the European Bank itself, which says quite different things. They are also disguised by what happened about a month ago, where once again their shares collapsed and no longer have any value other than a bank, with which the shares may be wrapped by a skewer or a scoop! You boast that you are reducing unemployment for the fourth consecutive year and that you have reached about 19.5%, as you say. You are thoroughly forgetting three major factors. The first is to do with the fact that there are five hundred thousand Greek citizens who have emigrated abroad and are no longer counting on the unemployed. The second important factor is that the GFCM itself in a thorough study - your GSC, not our GSC - has shown you that you do not count large groups of long-term unemployed in the unemployment index. The third and most important point is that, with the memorandums, work patterns have now changed, they have become more flexible. Most people are now recruited as four-hour, two-hour, one-day or two a week, but are not considered semi-active or semi-employable. So it is the reality, gentlemen of the government, that you want to show that unemployment is falling. You keep talking about investment and you have a very optimistic target of 2.5% growth, as you say we will have in 2019. It is, of course, a mere arithmetic: to have growth there must be investment. But the growth indicators - and we have shown them to you and they will also be in the 2019 budget book in the Golden Dawn report - fall and there is disinvestment and not investment. More and more companies, those who can leave abroad, leave to change their tax office or leave themselves, and the others close down and too many work 'black money', because they very simply cannot cope with the fact that you confiscate them accounts, you confiscate them all. You bet on positive developments, as you say in your report, on the global surface, at the same time as incredible geopolitical reclassifications, in addition to the war conflicts in our neighbourhood, Southeast Europe. We see a trade war that has begun between the United States and China, the United States and the European Union, and you are all saying that in this climate, which is extremely negative for the economy, because it is war, it will all go well and we will rely on some indicators of this situation. Of course, you also disprove of all the golphs, measurements, research, studies. One in three Greeks is firmly below the poverty line, nine hundred and two hundred jobs have been lost - it is the famous Brain Drain - over the last decade. A hundred billion more is the debt of Greek citizens for all kinds of public debts. All the intestines of the previous government that had led the country to destruction, but also the'self-determined saviors', which you were saying by 2015, and others then, can you explain to us after three and a half memorials, in the medium term, cuts, destruction, how the country's debt from 110% as a percentage of GDP in 2010 has reached and exceeded 180% as a percentage of GDP - and here is the unbelievable - and is going over 200% to get even Japan? Before the Memorandum we owed 320 billion, now we owe 350 of all these cuts, sacrifices, sale, everything. What's growth? What have you achieved all these years from crushing the Greek people? Citizens' income has fallen by 40% in recent years. The Bank of Greece in a recent report reports that the debt is unsustainable in terms of surpluses by 2060. Mrs Lagard three times - we have tabled it in the Minutes - has admitted that the International Monetary Fund has made tragic mistakes, but of course there is nothing wrong, because Mrs Lagard has not just seen one of her own to commit suicide, she has not seen anyone who is unemployed, who has not seen one of her own migrating abroad, and not in young ages, but forty, forty, five, fifty years, with what this means. The unemployed, the suicides and the immigrants have exceeded every precedent. And the cherry comes to the cake, the Vice-President of the European Central Bank, who said raw: "We have destroyed you unjustly" and then drank his expensive whiskey by talking to the officials of the Ministry of Finance and it's nothing at all. Everyone admits the failure of all programs and you, as persuasive organs of international loan sharks, insist on following their line and continuing the same tragic mistakes and ostriching, putting your head in the sand and saying that we have come out of the memorials. The report even on competitiveness shows us that, as a country, we are back even from Albania. These are your economic achievements. And if we see all the exhibitions and lists, we're all out of this country. I come to the banking system, this vicious and rotten. Most of this country's debt is from banks. We recall that it had borrowed, in the form of state guarantees, up to the Memorandums, EUR 170 billion with various fee on the Governments of Karamanlis, Papademos, Papandreou, etc. And then, with the recapitalisations, 50 billion more. All this has fallen into the fire, banks have gone bankrupt many times, bank governors are still unpunished literally, many of them are rewarded by taking jobs and positions in public and all good, because you are trying to build a new nomenclara and find them with them. About the sale of public property. You gave tens of thousands of nineteen properties to the supreme fund, as you say, in this "since" fund, once when there will be a national government, all those who have been governors, sub-governments, or the councils of this fund, will pass through justice for the ultimate treason, because that is what this is all about. You gave everything to archaeological sites, religious sites, and at some point you said it was accidentally when you were taken to the center, when the documents came out and you were justified and said that you would fix it. Of course, nothing has happened at all. Ten thousand thousand nineteen monuments are all at the discretion of lenders. On the reverse what serious states that respect their public property do. Norway, a model country which is not in the European Union - why is it a fool to enter the European Union? - it had a profit in 2017 of EUR 131 billion from the use of its public property, and when we say we make use of it, we mean neither a selling sale nor a leasing for a hundred years without a price, and all that money goes to its insurance system, go to the infrastructures of the state, go everywhere, and that is why it is a country - model, which does not want to hear about the European Union, about the euro, about the euro area and all these arrows. The extermination tax you continue to impose on Greek citizens does not show either that we come out of the memoranda or that you make your own policies. You say: 'It will be reduced in the future, it will...'. Direct but, above all, indirect taxes, the most unfair taxes, to which you put the damn thing when you were in opposition, are for the first time the largest in Europe and have exceeded every previous one. Tens of thousands of Greek companies - we have said this, we have also tabled it in the preliminary draft budget, there are in the Minutes, for anyone who wants to see them - left abroad. Very large companies are changing their tax base, they are mostly going to Luxembourg and England, while small companies are just getting up and going to Bulgaria and Romania - on the other hand - because the investment climate is much better. The same applies to Albania. Even in Skopje, the investment climate, bureaucracy and all of this is better than they are in our forgotten homeland. The increase in the elementary economy, as we have said, which forces many in this direction has no precedent. When the other one has no such account, he has nothing at all, he prefers to work black and everything he gets to stay in his pants and go to his family and not to a vicious, wasteful public who hires and do business with Manolicus, with caranicus, with various guys that you've appointed them. Perhaps that's why you see those who suddenly lie from "the locusts in the living room" and all with spit and swimming pools in the northern suburbs and you say "the success story of Greece" but you look at each other, because if you look out, you will see the real picture of this country and that economy. You have an uncompetitive environment. With the sixth highest VAT on the OECD, what do you hope to do? What investors do you hope to bring with the tax which, together with the insurance contributions, goes beyond 65%, when a company is even called upon at the end of the day to pay 65% plus tax and contributions, and with the remaining 35% to pay wages, to pay the electricity, to pay the consumables, to pay the goods it has to buy, to pay anything? It can't be. It doesn't come out. All these years you have managed an insurance policy, you have literally dissolved one with the PSA, one with the haircut of the micronomists who were the only net investors, and put the money in the state for some years and took a percentage back as an investment and they all did their job. Now they've been cut too, because you guys were really just fucked. And most of all, demographics because if there are no young people, how will they get into the production process, how will they get the insurance funds to pay? And, really, who will come to invest in a country where there are no young people, who are all elderly, who cannot find workers? Why should they come here when with a phone call with the offices that have come, they leave Greece that has paid to public schools and universities hundreds of thousands of euros for each student to become a scientist and they take them free from abroad? Everything's going fine! What goes well is some codes in the budget. Lots of money for NGOs, pork, food, for various tricks, huge sums of money, so that the various Manolids can build multi-houses with swimming pools and be handsome and handsome. This, I repeat, is your success story. Truly, gentlemen of the government, you who are democrats, anti-fascists, anti-nazis, as you say or anything, what about the mortgage loan? Will you ever put that into a state's budget the huge amount that Germany accepts, and the only dispute is in terms of the amount and we have mentioned many of them? The first thing you should do, along with the audit of the debt, would be the claim of the mortgage loan. For real development you have no idea, since most of you lived from the public sector and not naturally from the private sector. We have too many suggestions and we are going to make a few suggestions. By listening, of course, to the rapporteurs of the New Democracy and PASOK, who now come as self-determined saviors and suggest various suggestions, they should first solve the finances of their home and then come to tell us that they want to save our country. Because if we judge from the New Democracy finances last year her debt of two hundred and twenty-five million euros reached two hundred, i.e. she took another twenty-five million euros from some banks, from those that went bankrupt, and we will all pay them, so that they can do their part. And, of course, that money goes, we've been hailed. If you wanted to have one, indeed, development budget, then you should do the following, some of which you are also going through as a government. Accounting control of the debt. Direct subscription of the borrowing loan to the budget. Protection of Greek workers and Greek products at all costs. Enforcement of a contribution in favour of OAED to all ‘lawful’ foreigners. Competition tax environment which can be achieved in the following ways: Surrounded income tax with a ceiling of 15%. Reset the reduced VAT in the outermost regions. The general VAT on ceilings of 15%. Tacitly combating and simplifying bureaucracy, which costs more than EUR 60 billion to the Greek public. Create a healthy and national banking system with a specific mission per productive sector. National Bank, Agricultural Bank, Industrial and Investment Bank. Self-sufficiency - should be a target - in four species: food, fuel, medicines and weapons. Return to the national currency on the basis of an organised plan. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Renegotiation of all European treaties, Maastricht, Lisbon, Dublin I, Dublin II and others in the interests of national interests. Complaints of all European Union trade agreements with third countries: CETA, TTIP, SADC and others. Initiation of negotiations and bilateral agreements for the benefit of the country. However, the introduction of EEZ should not be done by giving the deposits - because this is what this is about - to those who extract them, because so far the contracts are colonial. Restoration of the injustice of the state's only real investors, the micronomists, because these decades have now supported this country's economy. Realistic motives for the repatriation of Greek scientists. Regeneration of the Greek industry, starting from where the infrastructure exists: tourism, shipbuilding, processing of agricultural products, textiles, defence industry and research. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Give me a second. All public procurement should be of domestic construction and, where this is not possible, due to objective difficulties, it should be co-productiond and assembled within Greece. Subsidies and incentives to the Greek family. Single financial assistance for each Greek childbirth. Abolition of the operation of shops on Sunday. Restoration of the time spent in the rest of the days so that the micro-medium can withstand the throat of the multinationals. But to do this and much more, there should be a national state, a national government, and you certainly are neither you nor the previous ones, who hope to be the next. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, too. The special rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Metarakis, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u174	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating the last budget of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, a budget based on a poor basis on overtaxation and overcompensation. He's got targets opposite to those he should have. It provides for a growth of 2% with a surplus of 4%, and should provide for a growth of 4% with a surplus of 2%. It provides for a low growth through subsidised consumption. It restores the structural problems of the Greek economy that led us to the crisis, the low investment and the current account deficit, while temporarily covering the budgetary problem through overtaxation, which is not sustainable. You systematically fall out, ladies and gentlemen, in your own development and investment forecasts. In the 2018 budget you anticipated an increase in fixed capital of 11%, and you achieve a zero increase. This year you are forecasting 12%, and, unfortunately, you will not succeed again, because investments want a plan and persistence, but you must believe in it. And we in the crisis, between 2012 and 2014, brought new investments to the country of EUR 36.7 billion. You, on the contrary, are fighting the private economy and, at the same time, you have plucked up public investment. You took command with lies. You've ruled with lies and left with lies. You celebrate the budget when the Stock Exchange goes around, the spreads go up, Greece doesn't go out on the markets. The liquidity pillow you have built does not help Greek businesses to raise funding or to stabilise the bank. Only public helps in the short term. You present developments in the labour market as your great achievement another lie. Unemployment was beginning to deviate rapidly from the third quarter of 2013. If you hadn't come, today unemployment would have fallen to 15% in the medium term 2015-2018. Unfortunately, however, you have come and unemployment remains at 19%. This translates into a hundred and fifty thousand lost jobs. A hundred and fifty thousand people would have found a job, if you hadn't become a government, would have been better necessitated if you hadn't persecuted investment, and with them, the skilled and well-paid jobs that investment creates accomplices. On the contrary, you made public contractors' positions to establish the party in the state. In December 2015, fixed-term contracts in the public sector were about seventy-three thousand per cent of civil servants. Today, ninety-one thousand per year, 12.5% of civil servants. Elastic employment is increasing and close to normal in your day. In the last figures in October, only 46% of new recruitments are full-time. According to the figures of Artemis in 2014, undeclared employees were 4.6%. Today's 6%. That's who you are. You want a state-owned, manipulated entrepreneurship economy, with citizens being either privileged or contracted or unskilled. I come to your social policy, which, for you, you say is your privileged field. In September 2015, I remind you, and with the record of the sketching of the memorials to have collapsed, you promised the Greek people in the elections a parallel project. In the medium term you voted for the great countermeasures and celebrated. In the budget today you are abolishing the countermeasures once again you celebrate. Decide what you want, because your behavior touches the limits of double personality. You disappeared from the 2019 budget 190 million for school meals, you erased 140 million for preschool education, 300 million for energy and primary sector infrastructure. They left 260 million for active employment policies. And tell the elderly you won't give them 240 million to participate in the medical expense. You have therefore made a EUR 1.3 billion turn in your social policy, precisely because you do not have a social policy. You are opportunistic and then announce to the air how you think it is of interest. Eurostat confirms this. You have the worst social policy in Europe in terms of the effectiveness of social transfers in Greece. You have brought us below Bulgaria, Latvia and Lithuania. The social model SYRIZA - ANEL is a fully failed model, because instead of planning targeted actions, you share money with customer criteria. Even after four years in government you are oppositioning to the New Democracy. You are abdicating us for the cuts, which were painful and, yes, they were made at the time to stabilise the economy and the country has stabilised. In 2014, no new pension cut was necessary. In 2015, he was finishing the program and then you came and abolished the CSCE, which, I imagine, mainly concerned industrialists, shipowners and the economic elite. You brought more. Increase in health contributions to main and ancillary pensions. Recalculation and reduction of subsidiary and one-off. Knife on widow's pensions, unexplained policy. And under the Katorugalou law, you put a zero deficit clause on the main pensions. You made the personal difference, too. You and you alone voted for the cut in the cut. You have refused the amendments to Anti-Population, and then you say that you are abolishing its abolition. You are undoing your own form, what we have denounced and voted against from the outset. No old pensioner says thank you, because if it weren't for you, there would be no personal difference or danger of it being cut. No new pensioner will tell you thank you, because you have introduced new pensions since 2016 and then 30% of new pensions. Young pensioners have no personal difference. No professional tells you to thank you, because you've increased his horrific contributions, changed the calculation base since 2019, and then came, like the joke of Hodja, to tell them that you've been alleviating them. You lighten them, because you fear the decision of the Council of State. No employee tells you thank you, because the wage earner is still in charge of 40% of insurance contributions. Kyriakos Mitsotakis promised to reduce the insurance contributions for all employees in the main insurance of 15%. This will increase the employees' available income. But the government has an enemy of the middle class and wants to impoverish it. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget figures tell the truth. EUR 220 million was allocated less for pension expenditure in 2018. Now with the new budget 400 million less will be allocated for pension expenditure in 2019, because this is the footprint of the Katrugalo Law on new pensions, which already covers about 10% of pensioners. At the same time you are trying to slander the New Democracy proposal on insurance. You have been trying to stop the future and deprive the citizens of what other Europeans have enjoyed for decades. A good return on their pension income. Finally, stop lying and inaccurate either because you do not understand what you are reading or because you fear the resonance of our proposals. The New Democracy wants strong social security to protect the weakest but also to use the resources of the insurance for the benefit of the insured and the Greek economy always under the exclusive supervision and control of the state. If you read a little more carefully, you would understand that the old pensioners are also protected and the current members do not lose their contributions or their future pensions. Contrary to the full development of the new pension system, we will have accumulated 65 billion funds, which will be reinvested in the Greek economy. What are you doing with today's surpluses? You, gentlemen of the government, undermine social security. You separate society in two, the many who will get the redundant pension of the Katorugalou law and the few wealthy people who anyway don't need it, and the insurance you're destroying the middle class. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] Our proposal has the worker, the man who tries, the man who works and who deserves when retired, to have a decent income. Prime Minister, it is true that the way you made the insurance policy, young people do not believe in it. We give young people a real prospect and a real perspective of social security. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall conclude by referring to another attempt to mislead the SYRIZA - ANEL. With the signature of Mr. Tsipras in May 2015 before the referendum, you blocked the only measure to support islands, the island VAT, a measure that was a acquis of decades, and which the Samara government had maintained until the end, because the Samaras government had a red line of VAT on the islands. The New Democracy has brought you not one but five amendments to extend the measure and you have not accepted one, Minister. The last extension for the only five islands where the measure is maintained, the ones affected by the refugee crisis, expires on 31 December. I would remind you that Mr Tsipras has promised the islanders that, while he is a Prime Minister, the insular VAT will not be abolished. So either Mr Tsipras resigns before the end of the year or you will bring an amendment. In today's budget, however, the measure does not exist. Another mockery, a great lie to our islanders. Ladies and gentlemen, for four years you have done incalculable damage to the country, to the economy and to society. The celebrations insult every Greek citizen. It's time you're leaving. It's the time of Mr. Mitsotakis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u175	The special rapporteur for the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr Koutsoukos has the floor. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr President. I will try to summarise the terms and conditions developed by our rapporteur, Costas Scandalidis, for the country's change of course and answer the question: 'May this budget be the last Memorandum'? This reasonable question is raised, of course, as everyone agrees that Greece must now go to the memorial era, with what this means as our rapporteur Costas Scandalidis also analysed earlier. This question is also raised, because the majority of the Greeks understand that the 2019 budget, which we are discussing in plenary, is nothing but the first memorial, as the government majority of SYRIZA - ANEL claims. It is clear - and we have done so with the analysis of the budgetary figures - that we are discussing another Memorandum of Understanding, which, unfortunately, to extract the primary result of some 7 billion, accumulates all the measures taken by the Government with taxes and cuts in the previous years, i.e. the measures of the Third Inappropriate and Unsatisfactory Memorandum and the Fourth Supplementary Incorporation in the budgets of the years 2015 to 2018 and now in the 2019 budget, the cumulative impact of which, according to Table 2.2 of the Medium-term, amounts to 29.3 billion. It is also clear - and it is clear from the evidence - that the primary surpluses of all these years have arisen from the cumulative impact of taxes and cuts and not from growth, namely overtaxation and austerity, are the two main features of this year's and all previous budgets. More arguments about the mixture of overtaxation and austerity imposed on the country by the Government of Mr Tsipras and Mr Kammenos do not need to be quoted if only two critical figures are mentioned. One is the sum of the primary surpluses formed at 28.7 billion in 2015-2019 and the other is the increase of GDP during the same period that is only 17 billion. With the information I have presented to the Committee on Finance and the report which I have tabled, I have shown the double unfairness of the government's tax interventions, which has, on the one hand, led to a very heavy tax burden on the few honest taxpayers, and on the other hand, it has burdened the wide-ranging popular strata due to an increase in indirect taxes on consumer goods, as they mainly have their income. This development of overtaxation and the injustice of the tax system has shown it to be two recent communications with relevant Commission and OECD tables. The further analysis of the 2019 budget items with increased indirect and direct taxes by EUR 354 million and reduced pension costs by EUR 279 million, without the reduction in the personal difference between the many pensioners confirms the uniform and indivisible nature of the overtaxation and austerity policy for the period 2015-2019. So, in view of this, we have continued the same Memorandum Policy, even if the government's optimistic forecasts for growth rate of 2.5% of GDP in 2019, which, as I have explained to the Committee on Economic Affairs with data on developments in the basic components of GDP, i.e. public and private consumption, investment, etc., are under many sects and doubts. The government could argue that these are the results of the long-term budgetary commitments made by the country and that the fiscal consolidation is not without taxes and cutbacks, as the Deputy Minister, Mr. Juliarakis, has already confessed, but the answer to this argument could be 'good tone and be late' if, of course, the period of delusion and the cost of which the Greek people will carry on their backs for many years. Once again, if we leave them again, in any case, scrolled memorials and move to the degrees of freedom - which the country is supposed to have acquired after the formal expiry of the third programme - we will find that this did not work liberately, as, in addition to the elements of increased supervision, the big issue that led us to the programmes - that is, dealing with the financing of public debt through the markets - lies under many restrictions and poses risks of return to the past. Evidently the increase in public debt by 18 billion in 2018 for the creation of cash reserves, the so-called cash buffer, can serve the government's electoral strategy, but it is not by itself that element, which will ensure the safe exit of the country into the markets, which remain sceptical, not because of the fundamental economic data that the government says but due to the general unreliability of its policy. As a result, either the non-exit on the markets or the high-interest exit will simply confirm that Greece has failed to remove the reasons that led it to financial programmes. The answer, therefore, to the main and initial question - namely whether the 2019 budget can be the last Memorandum - is inextricably tied, first by the overthrowing of the data in the Memorandum of Financial Framework for Overtaxation and Austerity, and secondly by the overthrowing of the political conditions that represent unreliability and prevent it from jumping to growth. Despite the fact that we entered a pre-election period and the political controversy produces more mud than solutions to the problems, as Mr Scandalidis also mentioned, in the polarisation climate that prevailed in yesterday's debate here, we as a Change Movement consistent with the history and the offer of our sidelines we are tabling our own framework for the definitive decapitation of the country from the memoranda and the crisis. As explained in the rapporteur's report of the draft law we tabled entitled 'First package of economic recovery and social justice measures', our efforts are twofold. On the one hand, to reverse overtaxation and austerity - within the limits of budgetary surpluses by 2022 - but with a different perception of their management and, on the other, to release social and productive forces from burdensome commitments and organise them so that they become active and involved in the country's overall course. Of course, the central issue of budgetary commitments for the country remains dependent on meeting the target for primary surpluses of 3.5% of GDP per year by 2022 and 2.4% of GDP after 2022. I quote two critical figures again. For the next few years 2020-2022, the primary surpluses are totalling EUR 28.9 billion over expected GDP growth by 22.2 billion, which, of course, is also questionable in terms of achieving the targets as our government has become accustomed to achieving much lower targets. Therefore, a substantial overthrow of the constant austerity and over-taxation in order to free resources for development and social policy can only include these heavy commitments made by the honourable Members for the country. Tsipras and Kambou and not deserve it. In Mr Tsakalotou's argument to the Committee on Finance - which now recognises that 3.5% is austerity - that if Greece raises primary surpluses, the partners will raise us with the conditions of public debt service, the answer is double. Firstly, the Government did not make the best deal for the debt - there are fewer decisions on the service measure than those in November 2012 - and it lost, among other things, the two-year ANFAs, about 4.5 billion. Secondly, that the unfavourable budgetary commitments up to 2022 and then arise from the government's found unreliability and its inability to attract investment, to exploit public property, that is to say, to change the conditions that have a negative impact on growth. The next big issue, the first thing I would say about the declaring the country from the memorials, is the resumption of the sovereignty of the Greek State on public property and its exploitation of the development and strengthening of social cohesion. The proposal for the selection of the Supreme Court's supervisory board that we have tabled as a law proposal provides for the appointment of its administration by Parliament and not by creditors. This is the first step. The next one will deal with concrete proposals for the development of public property, whether it is in the countryside or in the urban centres for productive activities and new investments. The fact that, so far, based on the EBRD data, the exploitation of about seven thousand real estates brings about EUR 40 to 50 million a year must concern us. And we would like here to stress that for these two strategic issues, namely over-excessive and public property, we would also expect the conservative party to be placed in an accountable way against the government in terms of revenue and expenditure. However, what we consider to be the fountain of a policy leading to the real end of the crisis and of the memoranda is the possibility of national and social understanding to overthrow long-term commitments for the country and to create a stable and favourable framework for attracting investment. The conclusions from the long submission of the Greek people to austerity programs, as any attempt to reach agreement failed and dominate lies and delusional ones, put us all in the face of our responsibilities. In particular, we are even more concerned about the extreme conditions of polarization, as was seen yesterday in this Chamber. But I must note that Mr Tsakalotos, who also felt it necessary to make an intervention in response to Mr Scandalides, seems to have received the messages of international markets that, as this confrontation is going to take place during the election period, he is in danger of blowing everything up in the air. Of course, Mr Tsakalotos 'watched the samari to hear the donkey'. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the real danger is not only that the next budget should be a memorial, regardless of who will be in the government, but that the sacrifices and efforts of the Greek people once again be depleted, for the sake of which we have also gone to unthinkable surpluses and back from where we started to deal with the crisis. I shall therefore conclude, Mr President, in order to do what needs to be done, as I have analysed, for the end of the memoranda and the final exit from the crisis, in order to prevent what should not be done and not to repeat the deadlocks, the Change Movement has tabled a comprehensive and autonomous proposal for a political strategy and alliances with a change in political correlations, as well as a new framework for the direction of the policies that Greece must follow in the years to come, what Mrs Fofi Gennimas has called the plan 'Greece'. We put these in the Greek people's judgment "with reason and a dream", as the poet would have said, in order to decide as alone responsible, sovereign and capable of preventing this recycling of the deadlocks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u177	The special rapporteur for the Golden Dawn, Mr Karakostas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u178	We are now discussing the 2019 budget, which the government insists on calling'memorandum', while, in essence, it is election and, indeed, election in the process of continuing the Memorandumary Policies. The government, of course, for the well-known reasons of political feasibility and of deception of public opinion wants to characterise it as the first budget outside the memoranda, but that is false. It is not the first out of memorials, but it is - and we are absolutely surely and surely - the last of one government - circus, which has served foreign interests, namely those of loan sharks and lenders, better or more firmly if you want from any other government. If, therefore, there is something in this budget that delights the Greek people and makes them undone with relief, it is precisely the fact that this is the last of the left-wing government and the partner and associate of Kammenos. And if there is a phrase capable of illustrating what the overwhelming majority of our compatriots today feel about this xenophobic government, then it can be "never left again, never left again in Greece and never left again in Europe". Instead of boredom with elements and numbers that everyone knows and which certify that no development is going to come - as the officials of the Memorandum of Understanding claim - I will demonstrate to those who, of course, can withstand the truth, the real role played by the SYRIZA Government - ANEL from January 2015 until today. As you know, the Tsipro-Cammen's fraud had been noted by the Golden Dawn before the takeover of power from the Left in January 2015, when the supposedly harsh antimony line of SYRIZA was in complete contrast with the privileged treatment of both Tsipras and Kammen from the status quo and also from the domestic capital that supported them in every step. The Left and its representatives dare over these years to talk about class policy, this class policy that the leftists obviously had in mind, when, for example, Mrs Angelopoulos was organizing transatlantic travels and speeches in institutions in the United States, in order to build Alexis Tsipras' international profile. And as the "reds" memorial revolutions memorialized within the interior, their head assured the ravens of speculation and tower sculpture that they had nothing to fear from the left. I would also remind you that the favourite term used by the Left to describe what the Greek people are experiencing because of the memoranda was the term 'humanist crisis'. It would be reasonable, then, to expect that with a pillar of this humanitarian crisis, the left would build its economic policy. In vain, however, anyone who expected, for it was simply not the humanitarian crisis, not the first but not even the last extreme danger that the SYRIZA - ANEL government had to face. And one will ask: "Who was then the most extreme danger the Tsipra - Kammenos coexistence was called upon to face? I don't give the answer. The answer was given, during the budget debate to the committee responsible, by the Deputy Minister of Finance, who said: "Towards we had a dilemma: fiscal adjustment by increasing taxes or bankruptcy. Financial adjustment means difficult decisions and increased taxes. We didn't want it, we adjusted. The other option was unsuccessful bankruptcy, with disastrous consequences for households with small deposits and employees. This was the real dilemma in which the government answered, and chose the difficult path to adapting political costs. If the criterion is the restoration of budgetary credibility, i.e. the management of the budget, then the three-year period is a success." And it complements with disarming honesty: “First of all because extreme risks that have troubled the economy from 2010 to 2015 have been eliminated and I am talking about Grexit”. That's what the Deputy Minister of Finance said. Neither humanitarian crisis nor green horses. The first concern of the Tsipra - Kammenos conflict was to eliminate the danger - what danger? - Greece should not recover its national dignity by putting an end to the demands of the loan-to-currency companies, i.e. the risk of Grexit as the Deputy Minister says. Extremely dangerous, however, for whom? For the Greek people, or for the lenders and the Brussels Headquarters? And in this question they have given it a number of high-ranking officials of the European Union who confess that Greece and the Greek people have been sacrificed, in order to save the European Union, the euro area and the euro, which would have been broken up if our country were not to be subject to the blackmail by the German Government and Brussels. The position of the Deputy Minister of Finance is, of course, fully confirmed by what the government did following the referendum in July 2015, when the Greek people decided to say 'no' to the signature of a new memorandum and the Leftist Government and Kammens handed it over to the loan sharks, and the signing of the third memorandum which should always be recalled that the SYRIZA - ANEL, together with the New Democracy and the PASOK, voted for it. So we arrive in August 2018, with the government triumph celebrating and triumphantly triumphing that it has taken the country out of the memorials and put it in orbit of investment and development. However, no investment is influencing, nor is growth coming. On the contrary, heavy and unfair taxation on households and businesses remains, with Greece being a champion in taxes according to the OECD. In fact, while the Tsipras Kammenos co-chairs the Greeks in the so-called memorial period, the Commission publishes the first report of the period of enhanced supervision, where it points out that Greece's fiscal progress is judged to be uncertain. Indeed, despite the government's assurances, the country cannot go out on the markets at the existing loan rates, while the so-called "cushion" is being used by SYRIZA - ANEL for electoral purposes and shares new party recruitment in the public and poverty benefits. But even to these benefits of thousands of our compatriots who have been affected by government policies are excluded, while those whose SYRIZA - ANEL coexistence characterizes as vulnerable social groups. However, in order to achieve the primary surplus of 3.5% by 2022 and 2.2% by 2.5% by 2060 to which the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has committed itself to the lenders, they will not contribute either foreigners or Roma but they will contribute - and indeed the above - those who are now excluded from the government. This is precisely the social policy - the SYRIZANEL instrument - which is the social policy. Here, of course, we must not forget the famous superstition, one of the largest gifts of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL to the Greek people through which the sale of public property passes directly into the hands of the loan sharks for the next hundred years, so that the debt can be repaid. However, with a great deal of enthusiasm you celebrated today in suspending the pension cut planned for 1-1-2019. And who was it who pre-legised the cut in pensions by an exaggerated memorial zeal and without being asked by the lenders? They were the SYRIZA - ANEL themselves, and that's why Lenin's mummy laughs at them. The one who certainly does not laugh is the Greek people and you will see that in the elections. In order not to blame the government, however, we must admit that there is an economic sector which is developing, and that is the great business of so-called solidarity with refugees and immigrants. So the hot spots are developed and they grow up like mushrooms across the Greek territory and from this business the left ones denominate. And that's not only the Golden Dawn, they're denounced by your ministers. Of course there is also the further development of the party state, since the wage costs of the public were launched in 2018 at 17.9 billion in order to justify the well-known slogan for the Left "Memory, Caviar and Velouchiotis Mars", a slogan that will crush only the Golden Dawn. As I said, the most extreme risk for 2015 was Grexit according to the Government. Today the most extreme danger, according to the Prime Minister himself and the government's officials, is the rise of nationalism. The rise of nationalism clearly does not threaten our country and our people otherwise. It is threatening, however, to the greatest extent, those who terrorise the Greeks and lead them with mathematical accuracy towards extinction, the European Union, that is, the loan sharks and an anti-national regime that governs our country. In conclusion, does the Greek people have the opportunity to exemplarily punish those who despise him, those who want to save him as an interest servant, those who mock him, destroying any prospect of development, any prospect of a better future? The Greek people and this possibility are called Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u179	The special rapporteur for the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Vardalis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, Mr President. It is important to approach the 2019 budget, taking into account economic and, more generally, political developments in the period that we are experiencing. I would like to highlight two issues that affect him and therefore affect the debate in this Chamber. The first is that the economy has been in a phase of anemic growth. It was 1.4% last year, 2% calculated for this year, 2.5% budgeted for the year 2019. And the second element is that, in fact, we have been in a pre-election period. At the same time, however, there are a number of predetermined measures, restructuring to be implemented, regardless of who the manager will be. Any government and 2019 in the next few years - at least 2060 and we see - is committed to continuing to implement the same anti-grassroots policy, which meets the needs for capital gains, while continuing to burden suffering to the people. What does SYRIZA - ANEL Government want through the 2019 budget? While on the one hand it continues to implement all these anti-grassroots measures, on the other hand it is forced to make the necessary adjustments to the new requirements of today's reality. It is trying, in other words, to integrate the people into its main objective, which is no more than the development of the capitalist economy, namely the profits of business groups, fiscal stability, primary surpluses, the implementation of restructuring. In this direction, there is a need for the various narratives and majestics, I would say, on the end of the memorials, to restore European regularity, recover the possibility of drawing up national economic policy, restoring the injustices of the Memorandum period and others. Of course, you are also making use of a few small margins, which are created by the improvement of the capitalist economy. A characteristic example in this direction is HUNPIA. This anti-grass came to stay. But in its attempt to create illusions and expectations, the government is reducing it by 10%, but in the interim it is also changing the way it is calculated. There's something like that. Only this has to give the system to the poor people's layers, i.e., deceptive, false hopes, patches, one-off, hunger benefits, putting the people in line with the limits of poverty, which you are getting downwards, chasing, that is, the conditions they need, and getting any of the benefits they share in your social policy. The essential issue here, however, is not, above all, the level of social dividends and, in general, the countermeasures allowed by the budget area, as you say. The main thing is that for you to find the financial space, you know the workers. That's the reality. So what will determine these crumbs in the next few years is the continuation of taxation and the reduction in the budget for people's labour requirements. Why? To achieve the primary surpluses and to find a financial area. It will continue, that is, in the next few years, to take from the people ten and give them one. It is not going to restore the huge losses of the years of the capitalist crisis, and dividends and social policy will work like the cheese on the face, to accept a policy that is simple to support the capital. What about the people? The people will continue to live the same barbarism, which lives today, to be unemployed and when they are working to get a wage, which is not enough for them to pay HIS, the various ravages, the arrogant taxes, to pay for the education of their children and their health. This barbarity does not change, without strengthening the class struggle, without strengthening the struggle and claim to satisfy its modern needs. It does not change without conflict with the capital and its governments, the European Union and the objectives they have. For the workers and the people, who have paid dearly for this barbarism now is the time to organize and counter-attack what they deserve. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems clear from the 2019 budget too, you will continue to fight for capital and interests, battle to attract investment for a new productive model, fight to consolidate the country as a pillar of stability in the Balkans and the wider Mediterranean region, fight for fiscal stability, primary surpluses, and promote the necessary reforms. For the people, however, these battles compose the trio of deception: firstly, the polluting expectations of supposedly benefits from capitalist development, secondly, a reassurance over the country's involvement in imperialist planning and thirdly, 'heads in' so that the nightmare of the crisis does not return. So these battles concern business groups and not the needs of the people. The best days for capital pass through the blow of the people's rights. They go through the increase, for example, of taxation by EUR 1 billion in 2019. They go through the collapse of social funds, the reduction of all government budget expenditure. They go through the reductions in pensions, the reduction in the funding of the hospitals of the municipalities and regions, the insurance funds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u181	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u182	The one recorded in the budget you deposited.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u183	You didn't read him well.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u184	It's 65 million in hospitals, for example.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u185	What 65?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u186	It is 65 million to grant state budgets to hospitals.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u187	Less.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u188	And how much more?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u189	Please. Mr. Vardalis, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u190	It's 65 million cut. I'm stressing it again. It even goes through the reduction of unemployment benefit, which only takes 10% of the unemployed. They go through ruthless blackmailing for auctioning in popular homes to support the banking groups to get rid of red loans so they too can cheaply provide cheap loans for the new round of profitability of business groups. It passes through the implementation of the Brutsi-Achtsioglou Memorandum Act to form the minimum wage, of course, according to the competitiveness of business groups by abolishing collective bargaining. At the same time, capital receives back-up aid to facilitate its action, such as tax reductions in insurance contributions, cheap money, free energy, etc. Even much of the popularized countermeasures include measures that act as a fertilizer for recovering capital profits. What, then, is the State subsidy to 50% of employers' insurance contributions for young people up to twenty-four years? It's a little gift to business, but paid from the people's pocket. That's it. What is the reduction of the corporate tax rate in business profits by four points from 29 to 25 over four years? From this reduction they will benefit 460 million, according to your medium-term framework. You disguise the people with taxation, but to capitalists you even reduce taxation on the distributed profits from 15% to 10%. The programme of support for entrepreneurs and the recycling of unemployment is growing from EUR 360 million to EUR 551 million. You do not mind one of the tax exemptions which industrialists, shipowners and business groups have in general. You probably consider them weak and need the support of the urban state. And what, as you say, have you not said, Government and Critical Opposition to assist small and medium-sized enterprises? But why are you maintaining the robbery of self-employed from EUR 1? Why don't you say a word about the immediate reintroduction of duty, the abolition of the trade fee, which could give their families a breath, the'support' of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, as you say? They're a blank letter and a mockery. The shipowners are giving duty-free oil. To farmers, however, no. Why do you not go directly to reducing the price of the farm by 50% in the small and medium-sized farmers, as they themselves demand? You are killing each other, the Government and the New Democracy, but the other parties of the Opposition, and the only challenge this confrontation is when, exactly how and in what order will the various sections of the people pay once again the effort to regain capitalist profitability, which you all agree should be done. In fact, you are alert, as the international European environment does not rule out deterioration in the next period, even the elements of crisis. The New Democracy, seeing SYRIZA as the favorite child of the capitalists, NATO and the European Union, supports the efforts and proposals of the Greek Industrial Association. He is attempting to present a more coherent framework of investments and to appear as a more consistent supporter. All of you consider the continuation of reforms to be an unrealistic issue, you agree with the objective of fiscal stability, the need to catch up with the primary surpluses. As for the criticism that the objectives for primary surpluses are great, to a large extent they are hypocritical. This is reflected in the fact that none of you - but none of you - is talking about changing these objectives, but only about negotiating with the institutions, if they allow it, that is, when they allow it and go by saying. If that's not a mock at the expense of the people, what is it? Any differences between you and your individual are part of the game, which forms terms of stable governments with a smooth rotation of parties or governments of cooperation, with willing reserves, as is the Change Movement. From this point of view, it is very important that the people's forces should be detached from a strategy which no one has, but has nothing to do with their own interests. Of the people who brought to this mess, you can't expect anything else. The road leading to the clearing of popular prosperity goes through the strengthening of the Communist Party of Greece everywhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u191	Mr Spyridon Dannelis has the floor, a special rapporteur from the Potami. And on the occasion of your nominal holiday, Mr Dannelly, we wish you many years.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, Mr President, both for your wishes and all your dear colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, the process of shaping and implementing the budget is perhaps the most critical aspect of democratic governance. Unfortunately, we have been dealing with it so far as a technical issue. However, the scope of economic management is not only the core of state operation, but also the condensation of its critical weaknesses. Transparency and accountability for the management of public finances and the allocation of resources between priorities and needs and between these and future needs are the main subject of democratic control, as expressed by Parliament's role in the budgetary and budgetary voting process. However, for years in Greece these two procedures have only been in practice. They had to go through the suffering of the memoranda, where fiscal reform was set at the forefront, making it a direct structural priority, so that budgetary institutions could reflect economic reality and be effective. In the last time of crisis, the deficit in Greece was unthinkable. This uncontrolled situation required immediate treatment, given the lack of centralised coordination and monitoring, let alone the implementation of the budget. So, in the first phase, there was an increase in taxation and a reduction in expenditure, which would have made no sense without the reorganisation of tax and budgetary mechanisms, of course, and of the corresponding procedures. Of course, this was not done to the extent, of course, that it was not easy or inappropriate. Unfortunately, all this pressing reform agenda was a prerequisite, instead of being our priority. He used as a arm an already very weak political and administrative arm, which was overweight, both as a tool to promote huge volumes of reforms and as an object. It must be realised that the main operative factor of the crisis and bankruptcy was the timeless party divestment of the state mechanism. Panagiotis Kondylis spoke emphatically about the lasting divestment of the country, a divestment that has now exceeded the limits of economic endurance, which has reached the limits of self-destruct, making even the patriarchs of clientism set themselves in order to be able to exist in the future. Neither was this process political, but also economic, as was remarkable on the part of the citizens, undoubted. Reforms are known to require a change of attitude, both at political leadership and at management level, and a change of attitude which, unfortunately, no one was willing to do. However, a certain degree has been achieved due to a restrictive consistent financial management framework, in the midst, of course, of limited resources. A sufficient effort has been made to deal with clientele and syndicate pressures and to rationalise political priorities. That was the good side and to the extent, of course, that was achieved. The bad side was the ever tougher competition for resources between their guilds and their patrons within the new restrictive framework. And that's how we come to today. The election climate that has been cultivating for some time is delusional, relaxation and, finally, the danger of a great loss. It must not escape anyone's attention that, although technically speaking, we are still out of the market. It is the last measures of a long and painful route, which began eight years ago and it is really unfair for society, especially the election climate, to disorganise the necessary efforts. And attention: In order to maintain the prolonged pre-election climate, the responsibilities, obviously, of the counter-population, which saw elections every little and every day, are not small, while part of it was calling for elections, even just before the procedures for exiting from the third memorandum were formally completed. On the other hand, the government is constantly falling into the trap of easy promises, forgetting that there is no easy recipe when you still have such a large public debt and strong commitments to your lenders. Another thing is our obligation to support the multiple people affected in the years of the crisis - micro-enterprises, low pensioners and other economically vulnerable groups - and another thing, of course, to serve in a benefit race. Because the temptation in election times is long and, of course, timeless. Let us not forget where the tough renegotiations of 2012 led, as in 2015, which, as the International Monetary Fund observed, led to extremely high primary surpluses, forcing Greece to compress expenditure on investment and to make disproportionate increases in the already high tax rates. Ladies and gentlemen, although this is still the case in full, we are faced with a new reality. The program's over. Greece has more opportunity to make decisions on its future. But do we have a coherent and comprehensive plan? Do we have a draft of reforms which will not be imposed on Greece by the institutions, but will be a consequence of a new social contract between government and citizens? Is the political system able to assure investors that it will not make the same mistakes again, that we will continue to open up our economy, that we will do everything we can to make us attractive? And when I talk about a project, why don't we do something like the Finns, for example, a small Scandinavian country, which won its independence in 1917, and from absolute poverty, it grows almost on all the lists of the world's most successful states, a small country that managed to become a model state, with enviable economic performance, with a commendable social state, with model care and a fair pension system? Where did Finland invest? She invested in her education, which became a global model. And how did he do it? It was based on increased productivity, based on the modernisation of the educational system, with continuous structural changes and investments in natural and human capital. To create such structures, however, in addition to the necessary political consensus, resources are needed which will come from a fair, stable and backward tax system. For another year, there is no particular reference in the rapporteur's report to limit tax evasion. We're likely to have a compromise now. Indicatively, although in 2018 Greece recorded a record of tourism with a million and a half more tourists, compared to the excellent 2017 one, this huge increase and the benefits in tourism - and not only - are not depicted in tax revenues. So much of this industry - and not only - escapes tax. For the fourth consecutive year, I will say the same. Any increase or reduction in taxes is of little importance to a large part of the population, as this does not actually pay them, while the burden is, as a rule, themselves and the taxpayers themselves. However, the fight against tax evasion should be a priority and a prerequisite for the success of any tax reform, of course any government. Of course, tax reform is not the huge burden of the 2009-2017 period, where the maximum marginal rate for income tax on natural persons has increased from 40% to 55%, which is the fourth highest in the countries of the European Union, after Sweden, Portugal and Denmark, nor is the tax reform the increase in indirect and unfair taxation, with VAT launching from 19% to 24%, with new taxes on heating, diesel, coffee, telephone, internet and even yesterday in wine. Of course, I have to believe that yesterday this unjust and irrational tax - mainly irrational - which brought great blows to a qualitative, extroversion and creative sector of Greek production, fortunately, was completely abolished. In this context too, I fear that we are also moving in insurance. Because any relevant law came to date was the result of a timeless transaction of the political system with their customers, with a permanent issue over the next generations, namely the young people, who have been tested for many years by poorly paid work, loose working relationships, migration or even worse than the unemployment that has occurred in recent years. Let us not forget, however, that in the mid-2000s, about, a lot of talk was about the 'generation of EUR 750' when the average pension was at least EUR 1,500. Do we understand - even now - accounting contradictions and morality, too, a problematic reality? Today, the "generation of 750 euros" is a distant dream. Youth wages - and not just - have collapsed even further, unemployment is still at 18.6%, while the average pension is more than 600 euros. The numbers are degrading and the equation is still, unfortunately, not coming out. In addition, election 2019 will be a heavy year, in terms of debt-serving obligations, as it will have to be repaid or refinanced, which exceeds EUR 13.5 billion. Most of these obligations are to three main lenders: the European Central Bank, the International Monetary Fund and the institutions, with Greek bonds in their hands. The combined pressure exerted on the one hand by the crisis with Italy and the euro and, on the other, by the reservations that continue to be expressed on the low ratings of the Greek debt from the rating houses, significantly keep the yields of the Greek bonds from the respective Italian, Portuguese and Spanish, thus making it difficult for the country to access the markets. Ladies and gentlemen, in order not to say tomorrow that the only project the country had was the Memorandum to design the post-Morandum of Understanding, a spirit of national understanding needs to be restored. There is a need for a new, modern diagnosis and a domestic property policy which cannot, of course, come to us outside, but neither can there be any real solution unless we embrace it ourselves, both the economy and society. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be out in a minute, Mr. President. Let the party swords enter their helmets to detoxify both the political system and society. Only then can a substantial dialogue begins on what our economy is, how it can improve and how it can step on its feet in order to return to normality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u193	Mr Cavalellas, the special rapporteur of the Union of Centres, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u194	Thank you very much, Mr President. We are therefore in the fourth budget for SYRIZA - ANEL. We see an enthusiasm in the governance that you have tabled the first, supposedly, Memorandum of Understanding. That is what I shall refer to a little later. We heard the majority speakers. I thought I was in Sweden, Switzerland, at some point as, from an economic point of view, a country. I would remind you that 46.3% of the population lives below EUR 382 a month. The most funny thing is that you based the 2019 budget and increased consumption. With EUR 380, what consumption can there be? If you have 380 euros, how many days will you spend, gentlemen? You say that the youth unemployment has declined from 25% to 19%. But this information you collected in the summer, when there was a seasonal employment in tourist businesses. It's over in the summer, the tourist season is over and over a hundred thousand jobs have been cut. Let me note that we are talking about youth employment and that these jobs are mostly part-time. In the same context, of course, so that you can have these indicators, you have abolished the collective agreements, and so you have the desired effect. I heard some money went into the banks before. But you are not telling us how much they left the banks at the time, when Mr Varoufakis made this'surprising negotiation on the left', he applied the terrible 'creative ambiguity'. And all of this, of course, was not the prerogative of Mr Tsipras, the Prime Minister, regardless of whether he was later disappearing. In any case, we have seen your "good" days through the Capital Controls, where citizens withdrew their money for safe foreign sites. We call this budget a pre-election budget. The government's dominant account that pensions will not be cut, which, of course, it itself had condemned, results from the sacrifice of the countermeasures. However, overcoming the target and the primary surplus of 2019 to 3.6% of GDP and the forecast for growth rate of 2.5% I look utopian to me. The budget therefore provides for a primary surplus of 3.6%, as I said before, namely EUR 6.9 billion for 2019 and, at the same time, it shares little of the innumerable money, which for so many years has been taken violently, horizontally, by the Greek people. What Mr. Tsipras shares comes from sweat and blood more from the Greek people. In the past, such benefits were referred to as 'exploitations'. It now presents them as a'memorandum social policy'. So the countermeasures are a sacrifice of the non-reduction of pensions. The new kindergartens, the subsidisation of the pharmaceutical workers and various other accounts were sacrificed to the altar of pre-election benefits. Apart from the fact that this budget will be implemented by another government - this is another story, because we believe that you will very soon be drawing to the elections, in the first or at the latest in the second month of 2019, and we will see whether you will be able to withstand - this so-called Memorandum of Understanding provides for even greater direct taxation, in relation to that of 2018, by 1 billion, the launch of indirect taxes - this method normally affects low income classes, because it is a horizontal method of taxation - reaching the main types of primary need in heights, which cannot be easily achieved by vulnerable groups. Moreover, the announced benefits in the 2019 budget are a drop in the ocean of tax raid, which is now becoming endemic in Greek reality, since your governance has voted for the reduction of duty, which will be applied since 2020, taxing even monthly incomes of 400 euros. On the other hand, promise 2019 much-advertised growth and you characterise the budget as a budget for growth. Your own demand for surpluses, beyond, of course, the requirements of our lenders, provides negative indicators, of course, bringing down the recession. In addition, how could growth be achieved without the main lever of growth, which is investment, while limiting public investment and overtaxation? You keep the money in the funds, you have due obligations to citizens and individuals, to businesses, which are operating in this way. You have promised that you will pay them, that you will not pay them back, and then, of course, you are presenting them as a surplus. These and many others show the quality and mixture of the economic policy you are implementing. We are totally negative with the recently agreed programme, the deportation of the Orthodox Church, the expulsion of the clergy from the public machine, which we do not know, of course, where, since it is a pretext, the public will continue to pay the lot, which, of course, will not have anything to do with the public. Therefore, there is no economic benefit here. So let's see where that money comes from. In practical terms, as you see it, you will be given the opportunity and opportunity to recruit ten thousand 'your own children'. You want to build your own army of civil servants, too, according to what the older ones did. Of course, that way, move towards an introvert. On the other hand, in the real economy, with overtaxation, you dry up the machine and, on the other hand, with tricks like Mr Katrugalos's law, which imposed a tax on the free traders - it is a tax, since it is a income tax, it is not a levy - you are immobilising the market, you are creating tax fraud, because otherwise these people cannot survive. Make a sum of see what happens with all these charges that fall into the heads of the free professionals. So you're destroying the production machine and I don't understand where you're going to get taxes, contributions. We have repeatedly called for the support of the weaker social groups. On the other hand, you, who are a left-wing government and have to submit the people who have and have a process of meeting the obligations of the state, are increasingly burdening the poorest of our fellow citizens by taxing horizontally. Let us now move on to the government's main achievement that pensions will not be cut. For co-government, it is a memorial achievement or not to cut pensions. But you too, along with the previous ones, of course, the New Democracy and the PASOK - I do not want to blame you - you have all lost your bill how many times you have cut pensions. We expect the stolen returns, we expect to hear something about the lists. This question of over-pension expenditure could have been avoided if there was a better mix of pension payment policy, based, of course, on economic criteria. Because we cannot give a pension to someone who has an income from rent or from any other source, from bank interest, etc., of EUR 3 000. What will this gentleman's pension do to him, when people, our fellow citizens, who go to the garbage can to find them to eat? And you know that very well. It's not a shape of speech. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I conclude, because time is valuable. Let's not be fooled. And this budget, like the budgets of the previous PASOK, New Democracy, etc., reflects exactly the same policies, which produce a number of problems, without hope of exiting the tunnel. I will give you a few examples: more than four million people in the country have arrears of public debt. About one out of two taxpayers cannot deal with this. Thousands of our fellow citizens a day are confronted with seizures of late public debts. 46% of the country's population, i.e. 5.1 million people, live with income below the official poverty limit of EUR 382 per month. In fact, 48% of them live in extreme poverty with under 182 euros a month. 26.7% of children up to 17 years of age, according to ELSTAT figures, lacks basic material goods. Pensioners also have a huge problem. A million more lives with less than 500 euros a month. Of course, we cannot vote for such a budget. We're going to vote against him. We consider him to be election and not to be developmental. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u195	Mr Theocharis, the special rapporteur from the Independent Members, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u196	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'm one of the real independents. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are a hundred and fourteen days after 20 August and we are starting this debate on the budget. Is the 2019 budget different from the previous ones, the first Memorandum of Understanding? Is it a budget of responsibility and balance? Is this an expansive budget? Is it, finally, a budget that serves the development plan, a development plan? These questions are not random. These are questions, these descriptions used by the Ministry of Finance in the report and the Minister of Finance in his speech describing this budget. Let's take these questions one - one. I think it's worth answering. So is this a different budget? If I came from abroad and saw this budget, I wouldn't understand that we're out of the memos. Revenue increases as much as GDP. So no substantial tax relief. Primary expenditure is falling despite GDP growth. Conclusion first: Same recipe for revenue, same recipe for expenses. Conclusion 2: The social figure for expenditure has been rather worse since 2018, even though pensions have not been cut. Imagine what the picture would be if we had cutbacks. How does the budget support the citizen? Immediately, from the funds paid directly to the citizen through allowances, such as the rent allowance, but also indirectly, with the money that the budget gives to hospitals and insurance funds. Direct benefits decrease by 900,000, the indirect decreases by 400,000. Where are these reductions going? Increasing wage bills. In three years' time -2017-2019 - you will increase wage bills by 1 billion. And this, having removed one billion, for the one-off, who went by court decisions. Only half a billion is the increase from 2018 to 2019. In addition, operating expenses are increased by 400,000, a large amount, judging the total amount of operating expenses. The battle against waste is gone. The battle, after all, against the memorials is gone. Second question: is this budget a responsibility budget? Will it be verified at the end of the year? Ladies and gentlemen, the financial management of the government is responsible, the financial management of the government is irresponsible. She is responsible for budgetary matters, which are of interest to lenders, because of this money they are paid. It is irresponsible in terms of development, the issue of the unemployed, the poor and the small and medium-sized ones. In 2016 it closed with a recession, in 2017 you predicted 2.7% growth and you caught 1.5%, in 2018 you predicted 2.5% and at best you will bring 2.1%. Lost growth, lost investment, lost jobs. Investments, forecasts for an increase of 11.4% for 2018 are not verified. On the contrary. At nine months we have a total reduction of 6.2%. And you're expecting an increase of 11.4%, which you have to rebuild in the last quarter. The forecast for an increase of 11.9% in 2019 is equally irresponsible. The increase in tax revenue for 2019 is based on reduced tax refunds, which have entered the 2019 budget of 1.2 billion less than in 2018. However, a reduction in tax refunds means either a reduction in GDP - a reduction in turnover, a reduction in the tax we are returning - or a reduction in investment, because in investments we are turning VAT or a reduction in exports, because exporters are also taking the VAT back. You in your budget say that we will have an increase in all three. It does not match the reduction in tax refunds, which close numbers. The special account gave 340,000,000 this year. So we are not talking about the specific cases of tax repayments in old years. In the past few years, the Minister of Finance had a line to balance the figures. He called it "tracking tax evasion". He'd put all the number, the cost-saving revenues in balance. Now, in your budget, the same role is played by tax refunds. The fight for responsibility and responsibility has been lost. Let's go to the third question that I've raised since the beginning of my position. Is this budget expansive, broadening the index of social protection? Extensive budget - so that the words do not completely lose their meaning - it may mean one of two things. Firstly, that it absorbs less resources from the economy than it puts it into it. In other words, it is a budget, not austerity. Italy could say that with its deficits. That could be said by France with its deficits, before and after the 'yellow vests'. It cannot be supported by our country, when it has a surplus of 3.5%. Can't the Minister of Finance stand up and tell us that the budget is expansive. The second, which could mean that the primary surpluses at least go down. One year is less than it was last year. But the primary surpluses we have are 3.5% in 2018, 3.5% in 2019, 3.5% in 2020, 3.5% in 2021 and so on. So we are not talking about an expansion budget either. We are talking at best about neutrality. For social expenditure and social protection, I have already shown you how budgetary resources are being reduced. It is interesting, however, to increase the allocation appropriations by 1.6 billion. At this cost, in which the Public Investment Programme and other costs are found, you are bilingualising the retroactive amounts of 982 million, some of which you are giving this year as well. This 1 billion is written in this year's budget, it is also written in the 2019 budget. This 1 billion gives you the opportunity to have a "cushion" of election benefits for all electoral purposes.The fight against austerity has, ladies and gentlemen, been lost. Fourth question: Is this budget available, even a development plan? Does it serve productivity, investment, employment, infrastructure, property exploitation? Is he bringing growth, inclusive? May I ask when the Interministerial Committee on Strategic Investments has to meet? Because here, you come to Parliament and you talk to us about growth and investment. Since when does he have to meet? Is it from March last year? If strategic investments do not come, what investments will come? What progress is being made in the "Greek", which all the southern suburbs are waiting for as a "man from heaven"? Why was the investment of 300 million ‘BLACKROCK’ cancelled yesterday, as announced? Is it true that 1.2 billion has been disbursed for privatisation, which has reached its completion and are you stalling the signatures to enter the state funds of 1.2 billion? What for? Is that how growth will come? I say again that it is money where privatisation has been completed and it has been disbursed and they are waiting to be paid and simply, we do not sign. We cannot say that we came out of the memorandum and wait for the memorial supervision to come and tell us "you have to privatize", we have foreigners, the lenders chasing us to find a job for our children. This can't be the state of exit from the memoirs. If you do not like private investments - let us say that you do not like them, why are you ideologically opposed - do we make use of public investment? Have any of these problems been corrected? I also heard the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy today, Mr Vetta, the rapporteur, who told us that it was the Public Investment Programme, the so-called ICP, which has been the highest in recent years. Here I have the figures for the Public Investment Programme and I will table the relevant table. It is precisely in relation to the budgets that have been set in the same straight line as 2014, 2013, 2012 and in terms of execution, we have been at the worst point in recent years. There are no public investment, not just private investment. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Did you at least correct the Public Investment Programme? Because over time, and previous governments are not relentless of crime. Did you correct its problems, such as, for example, within the EDP, not only hide investments, but also public consumer spending, and where we have no money to pay, do we put them in the Public Investment Programme? Because this does not create sustainable jobs. Did you correct the fact that in the last two months 70% has been paid, so in a rough, hasty, not quality, so no jobs are created? It is no coincidence that for each sustainable private investment it takes 40 to 45 thousand - and these are elements for Greece, not in general, of literature - while for public investment it takes 70 000 to create a permanent job. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, recovery in the country, without a Middle-class recovery, cannot exist. And middle-class is the small and medium-sized business and the professional. It is now with huge debts, with high tax and insurance rates, with the absence of financial instruments. So where is this plan for the small and medium-sized enterprises? Such a plan would mean an extension of the period of compensation for losses, consolidation of the tax framework with a minimum duration of five years - not a continuation - compulsory codification of legislation, speeding up procedures for the integration and repayment of development programmes, reform of property taxes, restoration of the functioning of banks, abolition of tax and insurance information for all small and medium-sized enterprises and a tax rate for companies to 20%. Because we need - I have said this before - a tax system '20% -20%'. To be 20% for natural persons and 30% for high incomes, 20% central rate for VAT and for targeted cases, 10% reduced rate and 20% for legal persons. These changes must be accompanied by deep areas in the insurance sector, which I have no time to analyse.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u197	And close, Mr. Theochari.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u198	I'm closing, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have shown that we are not in the era of accountability, that we are not at the end of austerity, that we are not in a period of social protection strengthening, that we are not ending in a period of increase in wealth and growth. To happen, a page needs to be changed, with a plan, such as what I have developed very badly. We need political determination and courage. Instead, we turn to the darkest practices in post-multiple practices that you so badly complain about. We hire ten thousand people in the position of what we continue to pay. This is the greatest risk today to go back exactly where we were before the crisis and that will be the risk of the next elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u199	The special rapporteur for SYRIZA, Mr Beyalas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u200	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, by going to Step and having listened to my dear colleague Mr Theochari, I can say that on some points we could agree on this in the speech he has made. I think it is the issue of whether some things could be corrected within this budget, in order indeed to have a long-term and operational operation, but also the implementation of the expected ones. We cannot, however, bear in mind that this budget is also the first memorial - and this is a reality - but it was designed and set up precisely in the west of the memoranda. That means that there are structural changes in issues arising from the eight-year period of the country and, therefore, I believe that we could not give what, as I said, Mr Theocharis, we could agree together. In other words, setting up a new tax system, to arrest tax evasion, could not be achieved with the bundle of lenders. From now on, we can plan a real tax reform, which will have a better burden-sharing, fairer and have the injecting element of development that our country needs, but also at the same time stop being a brake on any development. This 2019 budget, however, gives some standard elements, which we cannot overlook. GDP will rise by 2.5%, growth is based on the further, of course, but on the recovery of private consumption, which will total 1.2%, investment is projected to have an upturn and to share GDP growth by one and a half percentage points, the upward trend in employment is estimated to be 1.4% in 2019, with unemployment falling to 18.2%. We received unemployment in 27.5% and moved between 18% - 18.9% in August 2018 to drop to 18.2%, as I said, creating three hundred sixty thousand jobs all this time of our country's governance by SYRIZA and with net jobs in the tenth of 2018, which reached sixty-eighty-two hundred and eighty-two. The turnover in wholesale trade shows an increase of 12,3 % in the third quarter of 2018, compared to the third quarter of 2017, the turnover index in wholesale trade has an increase of 4,5% in the third quarter of 2018, the industrial production index has an increase of 2% in September 2018 compared to 2017 and the overall industrial output index of January-September compared to that of 2017 shows an increase of 0,9%, the turnover index in industry gives an increase of 14,3% in September 2018 and the retail turnover has an increase of 14,8%, as well as the building activity has an increase of 9,2% in the issue of construction licences and 18,3% in the surface and 16,3% in the volume compared to the corresponding eight-month period of 2017. Why do I report this? Do you think we'll talk about building up a success story too? Clearly not. It does not suit us as the left-wing government to speak with a success story when in 2019 we will have 18.2% unemployment when we still have people who are below the poverty line. We're not talking about successory. But I am referring to them as a response to the catastrophe you have in these three and a half years and are still continuing today, which are falsifying the budget figures, but also all the statements by all the officials, say again that we have destroyed the economy. We destroyed it, like Greece started operating from 2015 onwards. The draft budget actually marks the reintegration of our country into normality and an international economic system, giving an adjustment to a justified expansion of the economy, but also a shift in budgetary policy. Its sizes are improved and this fiscal policy safely leads us to a new mix of three objectives: to strengthen households' available income, to support sustainable development and to address the chronic deficit in social protection, namely the creation of a social state. This change in the mixture is implemented through permanent measures to reduce tax burdens and insurance contributions, as well as measures aimed at strengthening social protection and stimulating youth employment. We have heard here from the rapporteurs of opposition that we have reduced the contributions that we have increased. It could have been a reality if some people did not remember that before the Catrugalo Law 85% of the free traders, insured in the OAU, paid far more contributions than the Katrugalo Law. No matter how much you want to question it, it can't be. I am referring to many other professionals, but also personally, when we paid 500 euros a month with zero cover for safety and health care, and now we are paying 167 at the minimum, 200 euros, 250 euros, depending on income. And with the further reduction that has taken place, because we had said from the first moment that the scale of the insured persons who have 20,000-30,000 euros taxable up to 70,000 who were the ceiling, did pay more. The reduction in the previous bill we voted on and corrects this burden, which we accepted, but our professionals, those who listen to us, are aware of what I say by entering into their line. They understand that an insurance system that you had failed, gentlemen, with the disappearance of the reserves, with the enormous injustices that existed with the hundreds of eighty insurance funds, with this labyrinth, became a single social security institution, who stood on his feet, which you did not believe and you denounce that this structure will quickly be destroyed. Today you say: I have heard your special rapporteur for the budget today, who said: 'What have you done with the surpluses of the ECA?' So you now accept that we have surpluses. Very important actions that this budget sees for 2019 are the implementation of a new draft accounts for the central government and the planning of its expansion to the general government as a whole, the application of the recruitment rule - withdrawals one to one all over the general government. Ladies and gentlemen, is that a bad thing? When we have reached the lowest point in the number of civil servants serving and serving this people, do you want to insist on the relationship one to five, leave five and come to the public? So we're talking about a complete dissolution. Today we know that there are huge deficiencies in key sectors of the public sector, health and education. If one to five goes on, do you realize what will happen within one to two years? But that is the point, that the core of your policy is the dissolution of the public sector and the provision and transfer of all these services to private individuals. We are not, however, in a country where all citizens, 100%, are rich to be able to serve and pay for the private sector. We want and it is our central political direction for health, education and the basic central functions of the state to remain in the state. For the protection of vulnerable social groups, such as the granting of housing allowances and the further strengthening of tax compliance - and I referred to this earlier - there are many such interventions in 2019. Such intervention was also "Help at Home". Eighteen years were hostages all those who served our helpless citizens. Three thousand two thousand workers will become an indefinite one, with special treatment, where three and a half thousand teachers will be recruited. Also, with the rental subsidy that our poor citizens need, by reducing the social security contributions and the social security contributions of young people, by reducing HICPIA. And you're saying you're suggesting 30% horizontal reduction of HISBIA. What is more unfair and more classic than that? That is, the holder of a small $1,000 fortune to save 300 euros and one million to save 300,000. Ladies and gentlemen, what I mentioned is not an excuse. Forensics are what you promise and slightly promise the heart only to care for citizens' ears, but citizens know. What I mentioned to you is permanent actions for sustainable and fair growth. They are actions for the creation and establishment of a social state. I have heard the rapporteur of the New Democracy. He had a little differentiation. Beyond destruction, the rest of his speech was an election speech. I tried to count 'will', I got somewhere to the number thirty and then the count was lost. A "will" is not just an excuse, but "what the world wants, give it to him and take his vote". But, ladies and gentlemen, when I heard him, I almost believed him myself. And it would have been possible and I would have believed him if I had not been born in Greece, in Grevenna, if I had not lived in Grevenna, if I had not studied at the Greek public university and had not been professionally active here in my country, in Grevenna and in my hometown Descati. After all, this whole route reminded me of this. That your promulgation promises simple and when it is in power what it does is the completely opposite of what it promised and paraphrasing it to serve its own people, the state-owned entrepreneurship that you have been setting up for so many years. And you like all this chaotic situation to feed all the issues of opacity, all the issues of remula. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And if you come out, what are you gonna do? Will you abolish the Katorugalou law, to bring the Pinochet insurance, will you abolish all the measures? Tell the citizens that you will abolish the CRL, the rental subsidy. Say you'll dismantle anything that government has done, but name them so that the citizens know. Because they are remembered, but they should know what they are going to face with your own governance. Ladies and gentlemen, with this captain, and this crew, the country has come out of the bankruptcy you have brought. With this captain and this crew, the country sees a better tomorrow. With your own captains and your own crew, the country was bankrupt and your programmes cost EUR 67 billion. Our programme cost 9.5 billion with 3.5 billion returning to society, returning to the citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u201	Mr. Beyala, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u202	I'm closing, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government will be counted because the New Democracy rapporteur told us that the government was judged and found incomplete. The government wasn't judged. Next September, when we have elections in 2019, the government will be judged. And this government will be counted and in these elections, you can be sure that the people will get it out of their hands and give it another chance, another four years.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u203	The next speaker is Mr Karaoglu as special rapporteur from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u204	With this captain and much less crew, about 1/3 I count, my dear colleague, you will continue after the elections to your fight from the headquarters of Officer Response. Unless we have something else and you're not a Civic Opposition and you're a little below.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u205	Hope is dying lately.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u206	We're not having elections!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u207	You won't be holding elections. You are capable, Mr Polakis, of knowing the democratic sensitivities and principles you have.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u208	Come on, Mr. Karaoglu, keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u209	Ladies and gentlemen, the 2019 budget seals the end of a time, seals the end of a four-year cycle of illusions, irresponsibility, maladministration, inefficiency, constant deception of the Greek people. If one reads this budget carefully, one notices on the substance that it adds new stress to taxpayers, takes away any expectations that were required for the recovery of the Greek economy, multiplys the tax burden for households and businesses, and finally divides dreams and hopes for a better tomorrow. But - because I want to be fair and accurate - I must acknowledge that it is moving in a festive climate, as it calls on us to believe the Christmas miracles, that private consumption will recover, that investment will increase, that late debts will suddenly cease to accumulate, and that Christmas miracles will fill the pockets and wallets of Greek citizens with more money, despite the suffocating financial framework that has been created because of the deadlocked policy of the present government. But because the miracles of reality separate the thin line of realism, it is clear that neither the government believes in the budget it has submitted. After all, if the Minister responsible in this case, Mr Chakalotos, was sure that what the budget provides for is practicable, then he would give the budget to the President of Parliament himself and not through a representative. But come on, where responsibility for the Prime Minister obliges him to make the need for esteem, defending something that he does not believe in himself. It is enough, therefore, for the famous surplus to be ringed in the hand for communication reasons, promising that it will be shared in the run-up to the election of our economically weakest fellow citizens, only by closing its ears to the head of the Parliament's Budget Office, Mr Francis Kottendakis, who has admitted publicly to the Committee on Economic Affairs that the surplus is due to extreme overtaxation and the internal posting of payments. Of course Mr Tsakalotos does not understand the desperation of millions of our fellow citizens, who have been converted into permanent tax mortgages because of their own incapacity. As I read something very clever, "Mr. Tsakalotos killed the middle class and now raises money for her funeral, having previously imposed twenty-nine new taxes, twenty-nine new tax burdens on Greek citizens". I only remind you of some of them: Increase in VAT from 23% to 24%. Increase the corporate tax rate from 26% to 29%. Increase the income tax on farmers. Increase in insurance contributions. Increase traffic charges. Increase in excise duties on cigarettes, coffee and petrol. A 20% increase in the excise oil tax. Increase the rates of the solidarity levy. Increase the taxation of dividends. Nor do I forget the massive transfer of broad-consumption products and services from the low rate of 13% to the normal rate of 24%. The imposition of a residence tax on hotels and rented rooms, the imposition of a tax on electronic cigarettes, the levying of a 5% excise on fixed telephony and 10% on pay-TV and, of course, the first reduction of duty-free, of course. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANEL, you tax more quickly than your shadow, turning the poor into even poorer ones. After all, this is the left, synonymous with defiance, impoverishment, poverty, cries and division. Only today you no longer have the right to move your finger to anyone. In 2015 you received an economy that came out of the crisis, which had a positive growth rate after eight years of continuous recession and had continuous primary surpluses in the last two years 2013-2014. Four years later two SYRIZA governments - ANEL the competitiveness of the Greek economy fell this year further four positions. Citizens' debt to taxi and insurance funds increased by 60% compared to the end of 2014. The seizures exceed 4,85 million and the auctions for a million citizens have been multiplied. The banking system lost 25 billion euros of private-private deposits, while the Public Investment Programme, a particularly development tool, is cut by 550 million euros. Therefore, the 2019 budget, beyond being election, is not questioned by anyone - it cynically admits government failure. I would like to stand by some figures to see some basic figures in the budget. In relation to revenues, the net revenues of 2019 are increased compared to last year, estimated at 53,8 billion compared to 53,6 billion in 2018. As regards expenditure, these are reduced by 1.3 billion compared with 2018, i.e. they reach 56.9 billion against 58.2 billion in 2018. Their reduction is mainly due, firstly, to the reduction of the tax refund and, secondly, to the reduction of the Public Investment Programme by 550 million compared with the 2019 preliminary draft and the medium-term programme. But if I go to another interesting element, such as direct and indirect taxes, we will see that the sum of direct and indirect taxes in 2019, according to the preceding one, is formed at 46.4 billion from 45.4 billion. In other words, we have an increase in all direct and indirect taxes of around 1 billion, which is the highest in the European Union. At the same time, for the sake of your obsession, we are also the country with the greatest difference in the performance of indirect, more unfair taxation and direct taxation, with a difference which has the following sizes. The average in the European Union of indirect taxation is about 25% of tax revenue. In Greece, the indirect taxes with your government exceeded 39%. So these statistical findings, which I mentioned a moment ago, reflect the deeply pathogenic nature of the tax system. The high tax rates result in direct taxation deducting from the pockets of the Greeks 55% of the declared income, without calculating the insurance contributions. Thanks to this data, with the governance of SYRIZA - ANEL Greece, according to the OECD report, is a world champion in increasing taxes with Mexico. From the qualitative analysis of the data, while in the rest of Europe taxes have declined, in our home country their current convergence is increasing even further. For example, in 2014, taxes were about 35%, resulting in the so-called'slap' with the OECD countries starting to close, in 2017, with official figures being 39.4%, i.e. increased, at the same time in the other OECD countries there was a reduction in taxation. I now stand on another important point, in that the tax debts of individuals have increased by 60%. Only last September five hundred thousand Greek citizens were unable to pay the first instalment of ENPIA. And the reason was obvious: it coincided with the payment of the second instalment of income tax. So, today, we have reached the deadlines for tax debts to exceed 103 billion and if we calculate the other 35 billion owed by Greek citizens to dues and insurance agencies, you understand where we are. But let's see another interesting element, the debtors' profile. According to the AIA, the tax office owes 4.3 million taxpayers, i.e. almost one out of two. For the record, the corresponding figure in 2017 was 3,7. So within a year we had an increase of the debtors by six hundred thousand. The vast majority of these citizens who do not pay their taxes do it not because they do not want, are not of the "I don't pay" movement that you set up before 2015, but why they can't. And they can't because they don't have the money to do it. And explain why. Of the 4.3 million taxpayers who owe tax, 2.5 million owe up to 500 euros. Another 1.5 million owes from 501 euros to 10,000 euros, and the rest of them owe over EUR 300,000. In other words, about 60% of tax debtors owe up to EUR 500 and are unable to pay them. So you understand that we are talking about a classic example of the impoverishment of Greek society, about the impoverishment of a whole people that you have taken and others are applying. You who declared the body and blood of the Greeks and humiliated them, attempt a social and economic holocaust! Just before I close, you'll let me make a special reference to the heating allowance. I raise this issue because it is timely, but especially as a Macedonian Member of Parliament, because it is a matter of particular concern to Macedonia and Thrace. I may mention that in 2014 the government of Antonis Samaras had predicted 212 million for heating oil and in 2018 you took it to 50 million, that is, less than 1/4 of those predicted at that time. For us Macedonians and Thraces, all the North Helladics that the price of heating oil is around 1,20 euros you understand that it is too great and that there will be our fellow humans who will live a witness winter. I would therefore ask you to listen to your sensitivity, if any, in order to take measures in this regard. In conclusion, the budget you have submitted distorts reality. There is absolutely no honesty and development, there are excesses of hypocrisy and overtaxation, which in turn confirms the well-known principle of taxation, which says that the tax kills the tax, and the empty funds eventually result. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. In short, and in terms of purchase terms, from damage, you are trying to make a profit. Only that's impossible to happen, no matter how much accounting alchemy you invent. For us, New Democracy, it is clear that there is no SYRIZA - ANEL, which is based on over-taxation of the citizens and on a reasonable bonus, in a sense I get from the many - I say - a 10% - and I return one of it. There is another way beyond the deadlock led by the current SYRIZA-ANEL conflict. We're not all the same. And yes, some of us could do better. We did better. Besides, the numbers prove it. It goes without saying, ladies and gentlemen, that the New Democracy is voting against the 2019 budget, because it simply does not consent to the bleeding of an entire people. The only comfort is that this budget will not be implemented, because very soon, ladies and gentlemen, you will be in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u210	Mr Arvanitides, a special rapporteur from the Democratic Alliance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u211	Ladies and gentlemen, we are starting this evening the process of ratifying the 2019 budget in the midst of a more general turbulence in Europe and entering a prolonged pre-election period of artificial bipolarism - we experienced it in this Chamber yesterday - by the process of ratifying the Ambassadors' Agreement and with Mr Zaev directly talking about a Macedonian minority and language, and, unfortunately, we will always find it before us with this bad agreement. It is an agreement which is supposed, according to the Government, to disguise the development potential of Thessaloniki and northern Greece, which the government has identified with the parallel programme, which it has never implemented. But, I forgot, the government that announced the Thessaloniki program was another government. Yours took over just a hundred days ago. Nice try to zero the short, but what you zero, as long as you go on, is the chance of the country making a dynamic fleeing forward. SYRIZA's colleagues describe as an extension of the first budget after ten years. We came out of the memorials, put our clean clothes on - clean gar exit - gar -, joys and festivities time to expand and wait for growth. "We expand and rejoice," is the title. This is the new government account and the new slogan with expansional moods. Well, it's an extensive budget. It is, in fact, an extension to the detriment of the real economy and real growth. What extends to nowhere and without a plan is just a Jenga tower, as I described it in committee. You know, this little sticky thing that if you pull a piece is falling apart. It's a card tower - for the older ones - where one pulls down all of them. This is your budget, the 2019 budget, a tower sedated with a lot of uncertainties and awkward structural elements that can hardly collapse. If something goes wrong, all his predictions will fall into the void. And why am I saying 'uncertainties and inevitably structural elements'? Because the uncertainties are many foreigners - Brexit in England, financial problems in Italy, yellow vest in France, issues in Ukraine, refugee - and internal issues, as we enter an election year, but also because the way in which the government is creating the overcrowds with which it will make this famous expansion policy jeopardise the progress of the economy and the credibility of the country. The unbearable primary surpluses, which Mr Tsipras has committed, put a loop on the neck of the country and undermine the prospect of sustainable development. The surpluses do not come from any over-performance of the economy, but from the drainage of the market, of households and of businesses. You did not raise the pie to share a larger part. You didn't catch any crazy growth rate. We are moving in the swamp, which I hope will not become a molester from the constant scandal of existing and non-existent scandals. Only reflection and anxiety about how this budget will evolve. What good news and what optimistic brings? Do you see any waves of investments to eject growth that we used to talk about spring theory? No work began on your day. No work was done in the Greek. Four years we've been tracking the account. No new innovative procedure for the control and implementation of the budget is proposed as an innovation. With one phrase, your budget does not inspire any confidence. And the vicious circle goes back to where it started. The 2019 budget will be as impracticable as the 2009 government of New Democracy, throwing the ball into the next. We have not exceeded these priorities, which characterise our political function. The Government shall copy the New Democracy's practices and methods with the history of repeating them. Let us not forget that the Greek crisis was mainly a crisis of confidence. It was a crisis of confidence in the political system and a crisis of confidence in the country's economy. And what confidence can we talk about? What structural elements to analyse in order to understand who the tower is in the sand? The overtaxation of the last four years with indirect taxes leading up? Is there anything you haven't exaggerated? The income? You increased the tax advance for all professionals and small and medium-sized enterprises from 55% to 100%. The self-taxation of income from a free profession of 26% to 33% has been abolished and this income is taxed at rates of 45%. The real estate? The coefficients for the calculation of HPAI were increased on the plots. It was increased from 5 to 5.5; the HISBILITY for legal persons was increased. The consumption? Taxes were previously listed. We had a massive shift of products and services from the reduced rate of 13% to 24%. There is nothing that was not taxed either by product or service, what was possible and was massive. What first can be said of the lack of liquidity on the market? No euros or doubles, it's not moving. Anyone who talks with businessmen or with people on the market, with free professionals, can capture the truth. The government's overdue debts with a bankrupt? Can growth be promoted in this way? The reductions in costs incurred by hospitals, education, social costs, social infrastructures? The current account deficit, which remains at the same level as in 2014, indicating that the country did not take any serious steps towards extroversion? The inability to attract investments? Only good intentions and words are heard and no realization. The total volume of investments, which in the first half of 2018 falls by 7.9% compared to the first half of 2017 and the high depreciations in recent years to keep net investments at a negative level, when we need a large investment shock? We eat the capital of the country, we eat our flesh. Does the "flood" of the Public Investment Programme, which mainly affects the regions and the projects in municipalities and villages throughout Greece? The anemic growth with weight falling mainly on consumption? The shipment of red loans with overdue households and businesses surviving day after day without knowing what dawns on them next year? The reduced bank financing and the stiffness of the bank recapitalisation? Will anyone really apologize for the lost value of many billions of euros by the banks? The privatizations of large energy companies, PPC, ELPE, PPC, which go from an extension, if not for cancellation, simply to register revenues in the excess with a dry collection logic rather than a development logic based on a national plan? The absence of a smooth return to the markets after the take-off of yields of over 4% of the ten-year government bonds in recent years and without a direct prospect of de-escalation? The lack of any vision and a roadmap plan, with concrete actions on how, when and where, the Greek economy can reach in five to ten years? And don't one think of asking us, supposedly turning us - it's fashioned lately - "And what do you want? Do not strengthen those who suffered during the crisis?’ Who are you kidding? You took 10 euros, you give 1 and you want to say good. Only in Hodja's stories are there. Of course we want to strengthen those who have suffered the most. Citizens can't wait and they can't stand it. We must get back on track of economic and social development. That is why we, the Change Movement, the Democratic Incorporation, have proposed here and now concrete measures and proposals for legislation that we have tabled for businesses, small and medium-sized enterprises, free traders, farmers and agricultural production, households and the protection of first residence, workers and the unemployed, people with disabilities, the elderly and, lastly, the demographic situation. In particular, the last, ladies and gentlemen, is the number one existential problem for the country, which must come into immediate priority and be addressed. Ladies and gentlemen, denial of reality, and especially in our case, denial of economic reality, is the worst advisor for the government. Instead of adjusting the country's development needs to the budget, the government adjusts the budget to its electoral and party needs. Instead of recommending the first Memorandum of Understanding, as you say, a budget with another structure and philosophy in terms of planning, implementation, self-assessment of the budget, follow the scorched one. You have no inspiration and no complete plan. I'm saying again, you're not bringing anything new. Suffice only to the old, although you keep talking about the new one. Maybe you're the oldest of the oldest. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek economy has potential to develop. Unfortunately, however, the government with its policies does not turn these possibilities into abilities. It does not create another production model that the country needs. It repeats failed old-fashioned practices, expecting temporary small-party benefits, no matter what it may mean to the Greek economy to fail to implement the budget and to engage in some of its assumptions. The 2019 budget is a recipe of the same failed bad past. The government seems to have learned nothing from the crisis. We say that the economic potential of the Greek economy is there and they expect us to do them. However, in order to transform capabilities and to "strengthen" growth needs a change in political correlations. This change in political connections will not be long enough to come. The country can't wait any longer. There is no other room for delusion and illusion. Our country, Greece, has a perspective and can go forward, with a differently set budget to monitor its implementation intensively. With another allocation of funds and targeted investments by region, which will take advantage of the comparative advantage of each region, each region, which must obtain identity. With another character that the superstition needs to hire. With another approach to exploiting public property. With the cancellation of the ten thousand real estate concessions by the government. With the recovery of national sovereignty and leading it to Greek control. With structural changes and development that are not based on consumption by borrowers, but on production, exports, innovation, human capital, green energy investments, the return of powerful minds, children who have left abroad - and perhaps this should give us the best comparative advantage that the country can afford, because these children will have the new, another behaviour, another concept of moving forward. But also with appropriate alliances in Europe, so that EMU finally ceases to be only monetary union, but to become an economic monetary union. This also involves the economic and political unity of Europe. In short, ladies and gentlemen, a change in political relation and another economic policy for Greece and Europe. I close, summarizing the real truth about the 2019 budget. Firstly, the government does not see the real problems of the economy in this budget. Secondly, the country is unable to get out of the market so that it can refinance its debt in order to get out of the crisis. For these reasons, we are voting against the budget, which is below the circumstances and needs of the country. The country has much more growth potential than the ones recognised in this government. And we, the Change Movement, are here, optimisticly proposing how and with what means that can be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u212	Mr Antoniou, a special rapporteur from SYRIZA, who will be the last speaker for tonight. Come on, Mr. Antoniou.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u213	Before I place myself on the budget, I would like to make a few comments about things that have been said by colleagues from the Opposition from this one Step. First, Mr Stavros said that we are a government that has an allergy to investment. I would like to remind you here that we, as Mr Stavrou says, have achieved direct foreign investment - a record in the last 12 years. In 2018 foreign direct investment is projected to total EUR 4 billion. The latest higher rate recorded was in 2006. The second comment I would like to make is on this philology developed here by Mr Stagiora and other colleagues, in relation to this famous potential GDP that has been lost during governance by the current government. What was that potential GDP? It was a novel, a philology that develops in relation to what and exactly where the economy would be, if the Samara - Venizelos government continued from 2014 onwards, that is, serving a programme that since June 2004 - according to everyone, and the International Monetary Fund and the institutions of the European Union - was out of track. In other words, in a programme that was running on the cliff, you are building retrospectively potential GDP at an extra-real rate of growth, with extra-real primary surpluses. Even the most skilled boulder could not achieve anything like that. A communal bubble is this whole account. The second point I would like to make concerns the position of a number of colleagues who have given a great deal of emphasis on the issues of public administration and appointments. I am referring to Mr Georgiadis and Mr Amyras. I see them plunging into an aggressive logic put forward by the New Democracy, aimed at the social state, health, education, social services and auditing mechanisms, EIA, ILO, etc., which have disintegrated the years of the memoranda and which need to be rescheduled and strengthened. There is an inconsistency in this argument, because in most cases, those who come and meet here with trade unions either from the health sector, from the education sector or from the local government, are positive to the logic that specific sectors of public administration need to be strengthened with human resources. Of course, here they retrospectively come to the Step and say other things. To make a parentheses here and say that the Chief of New Democracy Mitsotakis, who is now talking about a reduction in the state and says that the state is great, during the time he was Minister for Administrative Reform, he had fifty a poster in his office, while the next Minister for Administrative Reform of our own government had only three. Mr. Georgiadis also had seventeen people in his office from the twenty-three illegally recruited CEDEFOP, who were working in his political office. He has confessed it himself to the relevant committee of inquiry. These records, unfortunately, you have them. They don't touch us, and we can never catch them. In support of what I am saying, I have here the official information provided by the Ministry of Administrative Reform with a press release, which has been officially moved, dated 28 November 2018. Public officials in December 2014 amounted to five hundred sixteen thousand eighty-sixty-six and sixty-six in August 2018, that is, recently, five hundred sixty-sixteen and five hundred, that is, permanent staff were reduced by ten thousand. As regards contractors, for whom he has also developed a philology, the only thing he does is to appoint the official figures, also from the press release, is that in 2015 the contractors amounted to forty-eight thousand four people, and in August 2018 they amounted to forty-six thousand and thirty-five. And here we have a reduction of about 1,000 people. This is the reality, unfortunately, for you. Although your evidence is falsifying, insisting, making and selling a false account for propaganda's reasons. The third point I would like to make is as regards what has been said about deceptiveness. I would remind you that there is no pretext from this government. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 100000. That's not an excuse. Forensics is to give benefits from missing money, expanding deficits and public debt, as was systematically done in the previous crisis years of so-called prosperity and inadvertentity or amnesty, I would complete it. I'm coming to the budget now. Ladies and gentlemen, last year, in discussing the 2018 budget, we had, as a government and as a parliament, put a large bet and a few, small but important bets. The big bet was that 2018 would be the year of exiting the memorandum and the 2019 budget would be the first Memorandum of Understanding. And this bet we won, in persuasiveness of your own destructiveness and your own prophecies that have been misguided. Colleagues of Anti-Population, August 20, 2018 will be a milestone in the country's economic history. We have earned the bet on the government debt arrangement to be potentially viable in the short and medium term, with a further reduction and over time. We won the growth bet, we won the wager of fiscal adjustment with social protection for our weakest fellow citizens. We have earned the wager of employment and the gradual declining of unemployment. We won the bet on the long-term viability of the insurance system. Let me point out here that we have received an insurance system which, despite the cuts that are more than 50% horizontal in pensions, leaving four hundred thousand unpaid pensions and a deficit of EUR 1 billion, has brought it into surplus and is generally sustainable. I am here on parentheses to remind you of the catastrophe that you have developed throughout the past period, that the second assessment will not be closed when you urged the government to sign what they were bringing it, because as long as we were late to sign, the account was growing. That was the'support' you were giving at the time. You said "sign, because if we come, we will sign measures, what the troika wants and so much", as the Vice-President of the New Democracy Mr. Georgiadis said. You said that the cut-off will be implemented, that we will not catch the primary surplus targets and a number of them. Destructive, terrorized, make news! You have attacked European officials with unprecedented vigour, with the case of Mr Moscovisi, the Commissioner of the European Union, when in the Committee on Economic and Social Affairs he dared to speak of the country's net exit from the memorandum and that there is room for some institutionalised measures, such as the pension cut, not to be implemented. You insisted on catastrophic scenarios, even when we submitted the preliminary draft budget with anticipation of not cutting pensions and a package of permanent budgetary countermeasures of more than EUR 910 million. While the Chief of New Democracy says that he cares about the country, he actually saw with public statements and positions all his national effort to get out of the memorials, urging foreign investors not to come to invest in Greece, saying that Greece is not a country that is investment-friendly and that they should expect to come, invest, when New Democracy comes to the government and he becomes Prime Minister himself. And Mrs Gennimatas would ask for Parliament to be dismantled and for elections to be declared a month before the critical date of 20 August, when the agreement on the end of the Memorandum was finalised. Ladies and gentlemen, on 20 August Greece successfully completed the three-year ESM financial adjustment programme and ensured a public debt relief package, which makes it dynamically sustainable. As the macroeconomic sizes of the Greek economy are improved, fiscal policy will gradually and safely turn towards a new mix, aimed at strengthening households' available income, supporting sustainable development and addressing targeted chronic social protection and social state deficits. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. I want to say a few things about growth and the objectives that this government is consistently serving. Our aim is to make most investment, public and private, to increase quality jobs and to improve the daily life of the citizen. I told you about the period 2017-2018 to what extent foreign direct investment amounted. I would also like to say that it is important for the current government to implement substantial reforms, which it is implementing, to facilitate new investment, domestic and foreign, such as the creation of a register, a tariff and more generally used land, as well as the simplification of the licensing of undertakings, which has never done any other government in the past. Despite the opposite, which you are going through your friendly press, in the last three years Greece has been in the fifth best position in terms of the absorption of Community funds, which was confirmed last week by our country's representative at the European Court of Auditors. We are also in the first place in the absorption of Community programs from the Juncker Package. We are setting up additional new instruments for business financing. We are introducing micro-credit, micro-loans to SMEs, without mortgage guarantees with business and sustainability criteria. We are in consultation with the institutions for the establishment of a Development Bank and by the end of December we will have the relevant communications. The register and forest maps go ahead so as to remove the permanent pathogens and ambiguities that were the most important counter-incentive for investment. We are improving and making company law and company licensing more friendly and refresher. Mr President, I will not go into the positive measures provided for in the budget for important social categories of our fellow citizens. The previous colleagues and the majority rapporteur have mentioned them. In conclusion, I would like to point out that this budget that we are debating in plenary is a first sign of the recovery of the sovereignty of the country, a first sample that marks a new course for our country and the Greek people. Our commitment is that course to continue for the benefit of the great social majority that we want to serve. To this end, we will remain committed and consistently, and we will be the one to introduce the next budget with even more positive measures. Greece won't come back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u214	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform you that the Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Vice-President of the Government - Minister of Economy and Development, Ministers for Migration Policy, Home Affairs, National Defence, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Citizen Protection, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Economics, Health, Administrative Reconstruction, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime and Migration Policy and Tourism, Deputy Ministers for Social Security and Social Solidarity, National Defence, Foreign Affairs, Economic Affairs, Health, Maritime and Migration Policy and Development, and the Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs have tabled a draft law on 122-2018: “Urgent arrangements for the competence of the Ministry of Migration Policy”. This bill has been classified by the Government as urgent and is referred to the competent Standing Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-12-S1-commons.u215	The meeting for Thursday, December 13, 2018, at 10 a.m., on the subject of the House's work: continue the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance "Structuring the State Budget for the financial year 2019".
