ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-23-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 22-11-2018, the minutes of its meetings of Thursday 22 November 2018, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Reduction of insurance contributions and other provisions’.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS First of all, I would like to inform the House of the news bulletin on Monday, 26 November 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 167/20-11-2018 topical question by MP Kosanis of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Theoktou to the Minister of National Defence, on "Improvements to the working regime of the ethnic guards". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under number 166/19-11-2018, a topical question by MP II, New Democracy, Mr Spyridonos - Adonidos Georgiadis, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: “Sea fish keeps the Ministry of Finance regarding the procurement of the Public Debt Management Agency with the investment bank “ROTHSCHILD”. 3. The 154/13-11-2018 topical question by MP Laconia of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Leonidas Gregorakos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: 'Limit situation in the National Health System'. 4. The Question No 171/20-11-2018 by F' Vice-President of Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Georgios Lambroulis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "For redundant workers of the Associations of Agricultural Cooperatives (ESA) Larissa, Elassonas, Farsalon". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 165/19-11-2018 by the Member of the Ieto-Karnania Parliament, Mr Konstantinos Karagunis, to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject: ‘Delays in the Integrated Judicial and Criminal Justice Management System (ICT)’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under No 170/20-11-2018, a topical question by MP Larissa of the New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "It is not possible to complete a programme of newspapers of the Center for Pollution from 01-01-2019". 3. The Question No 172/20-11-2018 by the Deputy of Attica of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Giokas to the Minister of Finance, about the region of Agios Andreas, in Nea Makri Attica and the illegal claims of the Church. 4. The 173/20-11-2018 topical question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the assignment of real estate to a Public Property Company (ETAD) - Treasury of the Private Property of the State (TADE). 5. The Question No 174/20-11-2018 by MP Aitolakarana of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister of Health, on "Problems in the functioning of the Centre for Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation (KEFIAP) Amphichia". 6. The 175/20-11-2018 topical question by Piraeus II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Diamantos Manolakos to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "For the continuing murderous attacks of fascistoids against migrant workers in the municipalities of Acharnon and Phyllis". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question No 159/16-11-2018 by Independent MEP Mr. George Lazaridis to the Minister of Citizen Protection, on the subject: "Addressing responsibility for handling and developing the surveys in the Bulgarians". 8. The 110/29-10-2018 topical question by MP Larissa of the New Democracy, Maximou Charakopoulos, to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: 'New outbreaks of marginal violence'. 9. The question asked by MP Laconia of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMARMAR Mr. Leonidas Gregorakos to the Minister of Health, on "Delays in the conduct of patients from the EKAV in intensive treatment units due to the lack of medical personnel". 10. The Question No 153/13-11-2018 by F' Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. George Lambroulis to the Minister of Health about the problems of Larissa's General Hospital. 11. The question by No 128/5-11-2018 of the Greek Parliamentary II of Athens, Mr Spyridonos-Adonidos Georgiadis, to the Minister of Health, concerning the radio medicine. 12. The question by number 99/24-10-2018 of the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "The need to increase military service". 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The Question No 55/11-10-2018 by Congressman Pireos of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "The situation in the refugee hospitality centre in Scaramaga" is uncontrolled. 14. Observed. The 2/1-10-2018 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Bagou to the Minister of Citizen Protection, on the subject: "An essential violence was carried out by ELAS in the demonstration of Thessaloniki, which took place against the Prespecies' agreement." 15. The Question No 109-10-2018 by MP Kilkis of the New Democracy Mr Georgios Georgios Georgiodas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: “Proclamation against the Governor of the Kilkis Hospital for the rape of a worker”. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) The question by No 1722/19-9-2018 asked by the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Giannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The feasibility and moderation of the transfer to the excess, as demanded by the lenders of fifty of the public property in the Municipality of Pyrgos". I would also like to announce to the House that the Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics is tabling its reports on the Office's requests for the authorisation of criminal prosecution against MPs. One is the timely question, which will be answered. Before we begin, to read all the questions that will not be discussed or answered today. We start with what will not be discussed and are as follows: The fifth, under number 121/1-11-2018, top-stage question by MP I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Nikolaou Kouzilou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Mixed Interdisciplinary Committee of Experts". The sixth under number 74/16-10-2018 is a timely question by MP I Piraeus first circle of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, entitled "The planning for maritime education". The seventh question, No. 53/11-10-2018, is the first question for the Piraeus People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Nikolaou Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: “Aid to the Port House in view of the establishment of an EEZ and the extraction of hydrocarbons and natural gas”. The eighth Question No 20/3-10-2018, published in the Official Journal of the European Communities, on the subject of "Piraeus of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: "Turkish challenging in the Aegean is continuing." Also, the question under number 124/18-7-2018 of the circle of petitions and questions by MP Xanthi of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Gregorios Stoyannidis to the Minister of Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Amendment to Article 116 of Law 4495/2017 concerning additions or conversions, which have been completed in buildings of traditional settlements, such as the old city and the Samakov region in Xanthi", will not be discussed due to the absence of Minister for the Environment and Energy Mr Statakis on a government mission. The third, number 148/12-11-2018, timely question for the first cycle of the Member of Parliament, Piraeus, New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The government is proclaiming a selective partition of municipalities with micro-party criteria, just before the municipal elections, causing confusion and inconvenience," will not be discussed due to the absence of the Minister of the Interior, Alexandros Haritsis, on a government mission internally. The second question under number 160-19-11-2018 of the first cycle of the MP of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.MAR.Michael Jeleli to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "The state of the Greek Sugar Industry (EBZ) will not be discussed due to the absence of the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development Mr. Stergiou Pitsirla, who is on a government mission internally. The fourth under number 117/30-10-2018 topical question by the MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Maniotis to the Minister of State, on the subject: “At the immediate treatment of the problems of Argolida's export company GERFA - G.N. Franciscos - two thousand producers, four hundred and seven hundred workers in the air," will not be discussed due to a workload of the Minister of State, Alexandros Flabouraris. There is also a letter from the Government Secretariat to this effect. So we begin the debate with the first under number 163/19-11-2018, a timely question by MP Florinas of New Democracy Mr. Giannis Antoniadis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Increasing the budget line for the supply of wood from the inhabitants of the mountainous settlements of the prefecture of Florina and timely disbursement to the Forest Directorates". The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Socrates Famelos. Mr. Antoniadis, you have two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-23-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, this is a question of increasing the budget line for the supply of wood and, above all, of being disbursed in time by the forest directorates. First of all, we are talking about Florina, about the 'policy' region of the country. This has been recognised to her and she's getting - now she's not getting - the highest subsidy in oil. We're talking about low temperatures, starting from mid-September. The state has recognized this problem and every year gives residents the right to shave certain trees, from specific sections of the forest. Last year, the great delay in disbursement of the relevant budget to the forest address, in conjunction with the bad weather - all of us know - in the Florina Prefecture, has resulted in mountain settlements and mountainous settlements receiving the wood with a long delay and, in essence, a holiday. There are also - there are another problem here - many fields which have been abandoned. Because of a crisis, they want to rebuild them. The result, however, was that trees and bushes are now considered forest lands. Is the Minister therefore asking: First, do you intend to increase the relevant shaving line and proceed to its immediate disbursement to the Forest Directorates, so that last year's phenomena do not occur and are left without heating up mountain villages in the Prefecture of Florinas? Secondly, would you consider the possibility of rural land grown in the past on account of non-use? And just to mention, for information, that the money given for scratching for the entire county is only 250,000 euros. In other words, some villages take two villages per inhabitant, that is, a ton of wood, when the average consumption is ten tons, about twenty villages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-23-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, my colleague. The Minister has the floor for three minutes for his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-23-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Mr President, for your question, because it demonstrates the interest and substance of the issue of heating in the northern regions. I must tell you that we have answered and in writing your respective questions. Let the House know that too. We all understand that the energy needs of our northern regions are important and forest ecosystems are, quite clearly, a valuable resource for this purpose. So I would like to point out this: precisely because the need for heating is a social need, our government has chosen and over the last three years has been expanding the gas network from Orestia to Kastoria, because there were areas that had no heating, while the gas was present in Greece and were not used even in the outskirts of Thessaloniki. The same is done in the area of the prefecture by expanding the district of the district of Florina - which is completed - but also by continuing the operation of Amyntaio, in order for there to be district heating, there is room for household heating and service. It is something our government has resolved, because the previous governments have failed to take any initiative. However, because the needs of the citizens are changing and forest ecosystems are important, we have started, firstly, the work of forest maps to clarify what forest land is. You haven't taken any initiative in forty years. Secondly, we have moved forward with the revision of the standards of management studies. Because I have to tell you that the way was shaved was management studies on millimetres of paper, because they had seventy years to update the specifications. We have completed this too. And so now, forest services also have up-to-date tools in the Florina area to do the management studies to organize the scratch for the benefit of these regions. But we have made two decisions since last year, which I would like you to mention. One is that there is special care for the socially vulnerable groups in your region. And the second and most importantly, our government has decided to allocate 50% more of the firewood to the areas with low temperatures, because for many years, for decades, this has only been done for the Drama region. And so all Northern Greece, with low temperatures, but Florina, for the first time, can have more for the citizens. And so we meet needs for many more citizens. As far as the funding and the budget for which you have asked is concerned, I must tell you that there are two different funds available. It is the funds given by the Ministry of the Environment and the funds available to the decentralised administrations for this purpose. There is a ministerial decision to allocate funds and there are special forest police provisions for the collection of forest products by citizens, because citizens can collect various dry, distorted and present - what is below I mean - wood, which can also be given to citizens. The Ministry of the Environment supports - and I agree with your question - decentralised administrations with more resources. We started the process on 16-07-2018. In fact, this year's budget was increased, compared with last year, i.e. we gave as the Ministry of the Environment more resources for the firewood of the citizens. In 2018, the Decentralised Administration of Epirus - Western Macedonia, which belongs to the Regional Unit Florina, was strengthened with an additional EUR 150,000 for the need of firewood - beyond its own funds. In fact, if I am not mistaken, it had a total of EUR 638,600 at its disposal - with a decision from the beginning of September, which I see here. We have already increased the allocation and sent it on time. It was given early, it's already registered. And I must tell you that an amount of EUR 60,000, in fact EUR 57,900, from the RIS, increased from last year, has been allocated to ten other forest cooperatives and to equal number of forest clusters that meet the needs of residents in additional eleven communities of regional unity. More information I'm going to give to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-23-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Minister. Mr Antoniadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-23-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you well started it, but a little bit along the way you went. You have seen that the question has no sign of a micro-political or micro-participatory time, because we want a solution. You referred to the district heating. So let me tell you that for eight years there have been 70 million of district heating, and that it has not started. Eight years 70 million are in the funds of the Municipality of Florina and has not even begun! The middle family has lost 12 to 13 thousand. And the gas, which you say, started from the previous government, and I fear that even in the next government citizens will be able to enjoy the good of the gas. I would therefore like to say that, in essence, I asked you whether we could increase this heading. This envelope is 250,000, that's not enough. In some villages the resident gets two peasants, or a ton. When this resident spends ten to fifteen tons of wood, to say so, and he takes only one, you understand that the state's contribution is low. And we're talking about some areas, Minister, which if you take an unemployed person from Athens and tell him "I'll give you the wages of the civil servant, you won't work as long as you stay there" will not go. He prefers to starve in Athens rather than live as a civil servant in these areas! So I want a concrete answer to the question: are you prepared to make the 250,000? Secondly, at the moment there are villages like Tropicus and Hydrousa, which, because it has snowed - in Florida snow was forty points and in the mountains over half a metre - wood is trapped in the mountains. The only time they can get them is April - May - June 2019. At least, give them the chance this trimester of villages could not get their woods to be taken that year, so they won't be lost. That's what happened last year. At least this year. It's unfair for these people to lose their wood. And we're lucky because this year he didn't have rain. Because if he had rain, over half the villages would never have been able to take their wood. I would therefore like two specific answers if those villages that have not been able to take the wood can take it in Spring and if it can be doubled. Of these surpluses you so advertise give 250,000 more for that area. That's how many millions you advertise. To stop this irrationality and that inability. Because, I tell you, in some cases the state gives the money - it's not that it's not giving it - but in the form of goods it's not enough for the citizens. So it's something. The bureaucracy, the inability of certain political or service factors? While money is given, it is not enough for the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-23-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, my colleague. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-23-S1-commons.u8	First of all, I would like to make it clear that there is a possibility this year for all the felled firewood to be received in good time and obviously it is not prevented from being received during the winter season. There is no question of time. At the same time, I told you introductory terms that there is now a forest police provision that we can now and March gather the dry inhabited, distorted, which the forest office enables people to take for heating purposes. In addition, I told you the resources we have given, and they are directed at ten cooperatives for eleven communities. Let me tell you, then, that from the data we received last 121,700 euros of decentralised administration, in addition to the resources of the Ministry of the Environment, seven forest cooperatives have been given for 14 communities. We see, then, that seventeen local communities have the potential to meet needs of local forests. Three local communities have since the opening of forest roads and anti-missile strips. Six hundred and fifty beneficiaries have applied to the Forestry and can harvest forest trees in private fields and four hundred former investors of the “Forest Agricultural Tree” programme, too, can be shaved. If there is still a problem - and my own information yesterday is that this is only about the region of Hydrousa and Tropicus, because we have looked into this yesterday - we have the possibility and have already given the decentralised police officer the possibility of having a special forest police order to meet individual needs in these two areas, because we have no other region - with the information we have, at least - information. I would also like to say to you, because you have also asked a second question about forested fields, that if the field is own-owned, it is already authorised by forestry services for forest forestry, and so we have solved a big issue that, if you like, may contribute to heating. However, I should like to make it clear, because you are asking for the wooded fields, that we have already made arrangements so that if there are titles in the wooded fields - and you know that, on the basis of the legislation that was before 1946, these titles can be used for wooded fields, for agricultural crops and for other uses, and that is clear in the Code. It may also be used under a subsequent title for agricultural and tree farming again. I have to tell you that generally this period of three years - four years - there is a major change in forestry legislation with obviously prevalent forest maps. We have therefore given a number of possibilities for exploiting the forested fields as well. The important thing I deserve to mention today is that today, too, the electronic process of recruiting the Ministry of Labour of Masters with an increased rate of pay for twelve months, where there are about a hundred and seventy forestists and foresters. It is an additional measure that will strengthen forestry services to provide better services, particularly for the inhabitants of the region, for Greek farmers and for the inhabitants of forests and border areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-23-S1-commons.u9	Thank you both very much, actually, in time. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate to the relevant ministers has been completed. At this point, the President of Parliament, Mr. Nikolaos Voutsis, will go up in the Chair because there will be a reference to the Day of Celebration of the National Resistance and the International Day for the Elimination of Violence Against Women. Immediately afterwards we will continue with the Prime Minister's time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-23-S1-commons.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, following a decision by the Conference of Presidents, two references will be made today by the President-in-Office to two - which may be separate themes, but which are emblematic - days that are honoured on 25 November, on the fight against violence against women and the honour of the National Resistance. I'm starting with the first report. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as ever as the central slogan of women's organisations and the relevant government and state institutions is concerned, to break the silence dam in relation to the massive phenomenon of violence against women and, more generally, domestic violence internationally and in our country. The treatment of violent acts has been and is obviously part of the strict application of the Criminal Code. It is important that this arsenal is now shielded by the legislation that today's Greek Parliament at its III Session, by a large majority, established for the adoption of the Istanbul Convention. However, there is an extra very serious issue to reach any case of this character in its criminal hell. This issue concerns the lengthy, extensive silence it overshadows, which is attempting to undo, and which most of the time covers these acts of domestic violence long before they come to the public, social silence which obliges thousands of women internationally, in Europe, but also in our country, in our personal silence, coercion and the sense of indifference. The evidence of all valid research is known to show very high percentages and constantly increasing sizes for the experiential dramatic experience of the abuse of women of all ages. They also show that this violence, beyond physical, also has extra dimensions, psychological, verbal, brutal harassment at places of work. It is important that international movements have developed in recent years to make public, impress, but also to results, through modern media to denounce all these forms of violence. But how will this veil of silence be broken in large parts of our society, but also in state-owned institutions, even in marginal police or justice, when there is and is the first step in the complaint? It is clear that we need a comprehensive mobilisation and an effort to overcome this culture of silence, the conspiracy of silence that produces a peculiar violence of silence. It is imperative and our duty to encourage, help, relinquish when and wherever necessary, to legitimise, in addition to the formal institutional legitimacy of this fight aimed at the necessary social dismantling and dismantling of this culture of silence within society itself. Phenomena which, of course, have a clearly horizontal dimension, have a particular socio-taxation characteristics. All structures developed for the hospitality of abused women and communication and surveillance structures which facilitate the public disclosure of thousands of cases of violence must be strengthened and supported with resources and substantial support from local and regional authorities. These are cases that also come to extreme criminal acts, namely murder acts, which, when they happen, are stunned, surprised and even more frightened, unfortunately, of every local society and also of all the Greeks. The fight against violence against women can only mean that the fight against and the disappearance of disgraceful silence, silence, which is embarrassing for our own society and not for the victims of violence, as is the case with extreme conservative ideological and cultural views, of course even in our modern world. The House, the MPs, the democratic political parties, must give this three hundred and sixty-five days a year in this struggle to eliminate the phenomenon that will also be a minimum element of real progress in our society. Thank you. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, 25 November is annually honoured for the National Resistance which has been a very important historical event, a reference point, memory and education for all generations since then and we hope for new generations as well. We need to know and know that our country, during the Occupation and the counterfighting struggle and the extensive actions of the organisations that were the trunk of the National Resistance, has been the country with the greatest losses in Europe in all respects and with the greatest counter-resistance acts, not only the emblems but also the mass media. Only in our country should we know how the two huge demonstrations were made. One was prevented from being recruited for the Eastern Front. We're talking about hundreds of thousands of people in the center of Athens. On the other hand, the plans for the Bulgarian occupation were also denounced and prevented, which was in consultation with the Axis. These are two huge mass actions, in addition to the thousands of counter-resistance actions that have taken place during the four-year period. The performance of honor in the National Resistance cannot, as far as Parliament is concerned, be an attempt to form a collective memory and a collective memory culture on these issues. I mean, we should all be proud. I am referring, of course, to all the democratic parties, because the House has been involved in all these years and has made a significant contribution to this effort not to overlap with memory, but barely to create all the seeds and components of a collective memory culture. I must remind you of the Stepma that the House has been participating together with other bodies in the previous years in the commemoration events that took place before and during the 28th of October, from 12 October, after the events called "Athens free", where it has actually been possible to mark, map and come to the public all the parties, the points, throughout Attica, especially in Athens, where there have been vaginas, or where top anti-resistance activities have taken place. I am referring, for example, to the fight given to “Electricity” in Piraeus or other resistance actions throughout the capital. At the same time, we have proceeded with a contract, which is already being implemented, with the Region of Central Greece, for the immediate support - with a design that will be completed in 2019 - of the promotion and the possibility of visitability and enrichment of the entire triangle, where it was the center of the Resistance, I mean Central Greece focusing on the Koyschadas and Viñani. We have also created a circle of price support, funding, sponsorships for films, publications for events, exhibitions. There have been excellent reports in the former EBA-ESA, which have huge visitability, mainly from the capital's student population and not just where all the resistance, personal and collective, of the period emerge. Of course, I can only remind you that we had, up to a few years ago, a colleague here, Manolis Glezos, and the price every year given to the flagship, in a European dimension, of the German flag that was taken down, which was a lighthouse for the resistance all over Europe. Let me tell you, because we are not informed about everything, that Apostle Santa and Manolis Glezos had gone to the Benacio Library, which is the Library of the Parliament, the building that is now reconstructed and rebuilt. You know, the building that's next door and behind the Old Parliament. They took all the elements there for the Acropolis, for access, for accessibility and for the whole space there. From what the historians tell us, they have been studying for days so that they can effectively do these actions. Of course, we have recorded the demand that has been coming all these years from too many aspects and not just from the resistance organizations to form, to create a Museum of National Resistance in the center of the country, in the capital. And this is not to close the National Resistance in a museum, but precisely because they have emerged here, and so has it in Thessaloniki, all the places of testimony or the places of resistance. The museum will be the centre through which this interconnection will take place with all these places and there will be the leading acts for the millions of tourists who come to Greece every year and will have to know which land they are walking on. Such museums may also exist in all the other capitals of Europe. In some of them they do not have to fill - return the expression - not one room and yet there are signs of honor for all residents, but also for visitors. I must also tell you that in the House - and this is something we know - we are doing this every year on our own initiative. It has been erected and there is the honorary display for our eight fellow citizens, our Jewish MPs who were victims of Auschwitz. There are events in this regard every year. The Greek Parliament has taken full responsibility, and at the beginning of 2019 we hope that the opening will also take place with an honorary event, the formation of the Museum of the Greek Pisces in Auschwitz. Because there also took place resistance acts within Auschwitz itself, through the participation of Greek prisoners, Jews and Greek fellow citizens, Christian orthodox or any religious doctrine. We have undertaken and proceeded with this synergy, and we are sure that we will also be able to deliver this minimal honorary act. Finally, we know that, with a large majority, a proposal has been drawn up for two years by the committee responsible for all the German allowances and the requirements for corrections on all issues - and there are too many - regarding not only the mortgage loan, but the loss of life, famine and ancient ones. On this whole issue, perhaps in Genoa, it is now time in Parliament's plenary that there should be a debate on this matter for the House and, at the plenary level, on the relevant initiatives at the interparliamentary, transnational and international level. On this occasion, and as a last proposal for a price performance, I must tell you that perhaps even we - how much more so our children - do not know that thousands - not hundreds of villages and settlements had been levelled and many of them and their inhabitants, during the current censuses made by Doxiadis right after the War. In addition, it is about the hundreds of internationally recognized cases, in which crimes have been committed, burns in the diffuse Greek land in those stone years. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that all of us are honoured by our hearts to people, to fighters, to victims, but also to the memories of that period. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[DISCLOSURE]] [[After THE DISCLOSURE]] We're going to interrupt a quarter to enter the current question of the Chief of Police and the Prime Minister's answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-23-S1-commons.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. Before entering the debate of the current question to the Prime Minister, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House is organised, thirty-four students and students and two educational sessions from the 3rd Kozanis Gymnasium (first section). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Also, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, since they have previously participated in the educational program "Workery Democracy" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-two students and apprentices and two educational attendants from the 1st Municipal School of Agia Paraskevi. The House welcomes you. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering its debate under No 157/2/15-11-2018 of the President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, on the subject of 'City at Universities', who will also answer the timely question. The President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Mitsotakis, has the floor for 10 minutes in order to develop his timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-23-S1-commons.u12	The consequence is not your possible feature, Mr. Tsipras, is it not? Forty-five minutes we've been waiting for you about. Because at 10.30 p.m. an official opening of the sitting was announced, full of the House, Mr. Tsipras and you come at 11.15 p.m. You will learn to respect Parliament and your political opponents. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am here today to highlight an unbearable reality that cannot be called into question or beautified. I am here, however, and also to propose solutions for dealing with it. The current situation in public universities is a great threat not only to education, but also to the whole of our social life, a huge problem which, unfortunately, with the tolerance of the government, is constantly growing, a threat to citizens' lives and property, a threat to democracy itself. For, of course, the lawlessness and violence which the universities have taken are exported and abused every day by the Greeks. Criminal groups currently use universities as a basis for their activities - they are activities of common criminal law, such as drug trafficking and trafficking in smuggled products - while at the same time the notorious 'collectivity', as the government calls them, controls many university schools. They have been converted into cocoon houses, to jafs for molotovs and to bait shops for incidents and disasters in the surrounding areas. In short, what we used to call 'university asylum' has in practice been devastated by 'unknown strangers' bullies. It became a violation of asylum. The movement of ideas, knowledge itself is persecuted within its own natural space and spaces which, even at the most difficult times of our history, have been "fast" democratic rights now live under the possession of a mafia, wearing a political hood. The very anniversary of the Polytechnic has been transformed into a molotoving contest and instead of Athens celebrating every year with mass participation the beginning of the junta, every year it is transformed into a deserted railway state, in which only MATs and hoodlers are circulated. Faced with this unacceptable situation, the state sometimes inactivates and flirts openly with the protagonists of violence. In any case, however, the state appears incapable and weak to protect students, protect teachers, protect university employees and, of course, also the districts surrounding them or people who just happen to pass by. Our universities of free-thinking cells have turned into a special place of censorship by force. If I don't like what you're saying, what you're saying, if I don't like how you're dressed, I just kick your ass. In Greece, Mr. Tsipras, the only place in which you cannot freely express your opinion is the public university. The asylum of ideas has turned into an asylum of lawlessness, infraction and violence. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, today's question I will sign it. In essence, however, this question has been written by the traumatic experiences and by the personal anxiety of those - and many - who are involved in the tragedy of the Greek universities. It is signed informally by a thousand five hundred students, who say to them what I will read to you: "We fear to be released in many areas of the university, which tends to be converted into a ghetto, especially after the sun rises and is abandoned to its fate. In a short time it will not be enough to bend our heads and accelerate our step by passing next to the traders that cause them in every way. We'll be there not to go to our homework." This letter is signed by a thousand five hundred students. To them, Mr. Tsipras, you must answer today and not to me! Until when will you students stand to walk with a puff of head out of fear in the Greek universities? [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from the New Democracy Ward]] I'm tabling it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] My question is signed informally by teachers, who are now openly speaking about what is happening, such as Professor of the Aristotle University of Oreste Kalogeros, who denounced public drug trafficking at noon, not at night, to be attacked immediately after the university. Mr. Kalogerou writes in his post "I am afraid that one day I will find the tires of the car cut or the car burned or that I will be cornered in a corner and beaten." [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And you must answer to him, Mr. Tsipras! Until when will you tolerate drug dealers entering universities and teachers and students living under their threat? My question is signed by the Republican authorities of the University of Athens, which openly denounced the installation of the "Rubicon" within the philosophical and open obstruction of the school's normal operation. They are the universities and students who themselves made a human shield at risk for their physical integrity to protect the public university from the bullies. The Rectorship of the University of Ioannina - not to tell us that this is only done in a few universities in Athens - constantly denounces the phenomenon of violence against teachers. The Senate of the Athens University of Economics has symmetrically closed the foundation to protest. Professor Tsakloglu had the courage to state that several months ago they had an oath and the parents who arrived for the ceremony were in front of drug users at various points of the school. My question is signed by ninety-three professors of the law, who openly denounce that the situation that has been created poses a threat to the health, safety and dignity of our students, teachers and all the workers, and insults the very story of the legal school. I give it to you, too. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] My question is signed informally by four hundred 15 professors of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki who in a letter begging the state to intervene: "The safe and decent working and teaching conditions for teachers and students are the minimum we claim! We are not asking the state to defend our self-evident rights.' I'm filing it. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So to all of these, Mr Tsipras, you must answer today - not to me - until when you will leave them alone and defenseless against gangs of the political extremes and the mobs of the common crime. My question is still signed by atypical young people who are not free to go to school today. You remember the case of the student Dimitris Kontopides who is a disabled person. He was attacked by refreshers who simply disagreed with the event in which he participated. So respond to this child, Mr. Tsipras, when you will tolerate every pilgrim to decide who will enter the Greek university and when you will cover up with your actions and your omissions on this daily of impunity, which the victim itself denounces. My question is signed informally by teachers who have been abused by diverse criminals. The professor in Thessaloniki who was robbed a day ago at an ATM within the university. The professor of philosophical Manos Stefanidis, who describes glaring robberies and beatings within the university, states lucky that his office is on the ninth floor and has only been broken down once. Professor Angel Syrgyrgos who fell into the hands of boozemen, supposedly anti-semitists, who, after being beaten up by a man, asked for self-evident protection from the police, saw his face in posters targeted by name. So to all of these, Mr Tsipras, you must answer today. Until when will you tolerate para-state, fascist practices of these groups and when will you leave defenseless those who hold their dignity and stand up? And I wonder, who are you all with? Who are you with? Are you with the teachers? Are you with the students? Are you with the workers? Or are you with the gangs of the trumpets and the underground crime he's penetrated into the universities? We know who we are: We are with the student and not the categorisation. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We are with the professor and not the 'danger'. We're with the shopkeeper, not the hood driver. We're legal. We're with regularity. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We're with all of them. And there are too many to laugh ironically, ma'am. Too many are all those who denounce you, who say 'as far as this goes, that's enough, we deserve better than this shame!' From this shame, Mr. Tsipras. I'll show you some pictures. It's from Metsovio Polytechnic. I'm tabling them in the Minutes. [[At this point the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above photographs, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] An image, a thousand words, Mr. Tsipras. Is this a public university image? Are you proud to be the Prime Minister of a country that has left public universities in this descent, Mr. Tsipras? And you insist that this issue concerns a few people, that what we are allegedly telling you is a far-right agenda - I imagine the same we will hear today - when it comes to the vast majority of Greek society, the mere student who has tried to enter the public university, the professor who wants to offer and today feels blackmailed, terrified by gangs that have taken over the higher education institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, of course the problem of violence in universities is not a problem now. A morbid situation has existed for years. But it goes on to become a regime. This is not a series of individual incidents. This is a new reality, a reality, which has also spread outside the universities. Of course the truth is simple: SYRIZA cannot deal with these phenomena because he simply does not want to do so. I think this also comes out of the conclusion of the Committee on Friday, where, as a solution, Mr Tsipras, you propose that ATM be removed from universities so that thieves do not envy them, that discussions should be organised with all the parties involved if the hoodiers leave the molotoves and hammers and grab books and piano! We did not expect anything better than a minister who, by law, rushed to release thousands of criminals and terrorists. Unless you think, Mr Tsipras, the safety of universities should be entrusted to Mr Gavroglou's Roman Catholic student movement, as if it were the work of children who are studying to collide with drug dealers. So let me understand what you're telling us. You have opened university doors to lawlessness and violence, and you ask students to deal with it on self-righteous basis in order to preserve the asylum from police interventions. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to be absolutely clear. All this will be over with the next government. With New Democracy, our universities will clean up gangs, drug dealers, smugglers and all kinds of bullies. And there will be neither space nor opportunity to be occupied by foreign-university elements. And those who today are struggling at the universities will just be thrown out. And the asylum will be abolished. It won't just change the law. It'll be abolished. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Look, I want to explain this to the citizens who are watching us.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-23-S1-commons.u13	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-23-S1-commons.u14	You don't understand anything. That's your problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-23-S1-commons.u15	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-23-S1-commons.u16	But the citizens outside have understood very well the situation you have brought the universities into. They're fine. If today...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-23-S1-commons.u17	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-23-S1-commons.u18	Don't get upset. Your Chief will answer. He'll answer, I guess. If today in any part of the country a citizen calls help a policeman will go help him. If this happens within the university, it should say: 'Stop, is it an offence against life or a attack? Because if it's a flood, I can't help you. I want permission from the Rector's Board." This is defined by the law you have passed, Law No. 4485/2017, which will be repealed the next day. It is a mockery, it is an outrage, it is an insult to the rule of law, it is an insult, after all, to democracy itself. I'm not saying this to you alone, Mr. Gavroglou, who thinks that the law you have brought about asylum, your law, yours, yours, Mr. Gavroglou, encourages lawlessness. I'm presenting their announcement to you. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the communication referred to above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Have you met POSPE, Mr. Tsipras? Did you talk to them? I am referring to Mr Tsipras, not to you, Mr Gavroglou. Did you hear them? Because as far as I'm concerned, I want to be clear. If the universities themselves want to form a framework of protection and care, I am here to discuss it. But until this happens, the universities will have the protection, which the public space has, and the common criminal law will apply to them. The inconvenience that goes to prevail will end. Knowledge will be protected, so will research and academic freedom. Tolerance to crime is not going to exist. We owe it to the new generation, we owe it to the future of this place. The public university will rise again, providing supplies and equal opportunities for the children of all Greeks. It will work with evaluation, work with merit and provide quality studies. We want universities autonomous, self-government, modern, extrovert, free. We want institutions that are creative cells that are properly managed, with measurable research results, public universities freely, openly and safely. That is what we want, what the Greek citizens are calling for, and that is what we will ensure. Mr. Tsipras, we present our education programme in detail tomorrow morning. I'm going to send it to you, not because I hope you can roughly copy some positions from there, as you have done in the economy, but to see...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-23-S1-commons.u19	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-23-S1-commons.u20	...that while you keep the country down, there are forces working, they are planning on how Greece will go forward, on how we will make the lives of young people better, and on how, Mr. Tsipras, we will give them the right to walk with their heads up and not torn out of fear. Because that is ultimately our big difference. You are yesterday of lies, of levelling, of violence and of lawlessness. We are the power of truth, of work, of progress, to return a page for a bright Greece, of Greece optimistic. Mr. Tsipras, I'm afraid the story has already gone beyond you. The Greeks and especially the students, the teachers, the workers who listen to us today are better worth it. Whatever you do, we're finally going to Greece in front! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-23-S1-commons.u21	Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras has the floor for 20 minutes on his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-23-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Mitsotakis, you have begun your intervention with reference to my own consistency, and all because I was half an hour late, which is not unusual for a Prime Minister, who has nothing to do with just one issue in his everyday life. It is extremely important, of course, to find itself in the House, but I would like to remind you that I may be the only Prime Minister from post-Macedonia, perhaps with the exception of George Papandreou, who actually responded to the parliamentary duties, which I have not refused to answer either a question from all political leaders and not just from the Chief of Staff. I would remind you that my predecessor, Mr Samaras, had not come to answer a question of political leaders and the opposition leader once. Not even one! To remember and understand what parliamentary consistency means. Because it is courageous for you to come here and give up for me, because I have been late for half an hour, when yesterday I waited for you to come to Parliament for a whole day. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But you had escaped. You have escaped because you have no account anymore to speak about the economy. And of course, Mr Mitsotakis, I would like to remind you that you are almost three years leader. Every Friday is Prime Minister time. How many times have you taken advantage of this possibility provided by the Rules of Procedure of this House? Only three times. Third is today. Mr. Mitsotakis, the other two times what, really, did you ask me here in the House? The first was February 2017, and the theme was “Increasing the phenomena of violence and exacerbation of crime”, the second was October 2017, where you changed the words and the subject was not “the elevation of violence”, but the first was “the elevation of crime and the increase of the phenomena of violence”, the same question with a different order of words. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And the third is on the subject of violence and crime, this time at universities. Mr. Mitsotakis, don't you have any more to ask me? I will come every Friday, turn the Prime Minister's time into a debate on lawlessness, violence and crime. Anything you want, Mr. Mitsotakis, because it's not even that court of yours. Because you're dealing with false evidence and destructive everywhere. And what emerges from your questions and positions is a great, deep hatred for the public sphere and the public university. Apparently, there's a crime in the country. There is no doubt about that. Is crime now a phenomenon? Obviously, there is also crime in university institutions, which are within the urban fabric. Is that only a Greek phenomenon?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-23-S1-commons.u23	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-23-S1-commons.u24	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-23-S1-commons.u25	Really? So I'll prove it's not. I'll prove it's not! But, before I get to that, I'll tell you this. I will come to answer every time any questions you ask, to avoid your basic problem, which is a debate on the economy, now that each of you has sanctified. But next time, when you choose to escape from the debate on the economy in the House, Mr. Mitsotakis, tell your communicators not to make statements of two hundred meters from my home, telling me to come to my area, in my neighborhood to answer and see what the reality is. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Let's go to any other neighborhood in Athens. And in any case, if you come from the neighborhood, bend the bell and have a cup of coffee. I'll buy you one! [[Laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] Because we may be political opponents, but we have political culture. I now come to the subject, which you have raised for the third time in a row and you say that on the days of our government the cases of violence in universities have increased. And why has that happened? While all the previous period our universities had a magical picture. You also brought photos from the National Technical University with spray on the walls. These sprays on the walls appeared in the Polytechnic since January 2015. Before there was no spray on the walls. The polytechnic's been burnt on your day. Not for our day. But where is your basic argument based? Your main argument is that all this happened in the universities because we restored university asylum. I will answer that this is a double lie: Firstly, because all the evidence shows that during the period of our own governance the cases to which you refer are reduced. I will take the investigation, which has also been done - and I would say this - into the media, the investigation of the University of Macedonia, the PAMAK, which, in any case, could be criticised, given that it is 'wrong' - the incidents of violence, considering the use of a room without permission, up to physical attacks and injuries. But let it have, in this investigation it turns out that three hundred and fifty-eight cases of violence were recorded in the country, in the sense that defines them. Of these three hundred and fifty-eight cases of violence, the two hundred fifty-five, Mr. Mitsotakis, are in the period 2011-2014 and only one hundred-three are from 2015 onwards. Where, then, have incidents of violence increased in our own governance? Probably in your period was two-thirds of the incident. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Then there was the legislation of Mrs Giannakou, which we have brought back. I'm talking about asylum. Then there was what you are considered today to be the solution to the problem, that is, there was no concept of university asylum. So your second basic argument is also false. What is the second argument? That the law on university asylum is the one responsible. And why is he responsible? Because it doesn't enable the police to intervene when crimes are committed. And I imagine, because you obviously have - if not yourself, your partners - a very good knowledge of the legal issues, you realize that this is a construction. University asylum, as established by our own intervention, does not prevent police from interfering with offences within university spaces. The police can intervene on every self-righteous offence committed in university spaces, as long as it is called, because the police can certainly not know in advance whether there will be an offence, as in any other public space, in public universities. So do you want to talk about crime and all these phenomena? Mr. Mitsotakis, it's obvious. I have neither come here to defend the view that we live in an angel society nor to defend the view that there is no question of security. After all, we are the first to say that security is a people's right, and we must put all our weight on it and put all our weight on it. I have to give you official information from the Greek Police about how much the interventions of the Greek Police have increased patrols, including incubations and arrests in recent years and whether the indicators of crime in the country have been reduced. There is still a problem with the security and crime that we all have to deal with. I have not come, for any reason, to defend, as you wish, who have an ideological obsession with the point of view. Because I remember one of your interventions in an international political journal, 'POLITICO', if I am not mistaken, where you said that the uterus of violence in that country is the Left. That's the kind of idea you've got. You forget, however, that sitting in the same seat with people who at their youths, as students, took the axes and circulated in university spaces and their womb was the Extreme Right and not the Left. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I, therefore, am not coming to defend, as I am about to report every fascist perception and attitude, whether it comes from the extreme right and thicken these phenomena and violence and indiscriminateness, with the orders of the Golden Dawn, with the murders, with the murder of Paul Physa, with the trabucism, and, of course, the self-indicated defenders of the student movement or the popular movement who present themselves as owners of the legacy of the struggles of this place and especially of youth, who are at the forefront of standing in front of the gates of the Polytechnics on the day of celebration and prevent people who participate in the events of November 1973 and were in the front line, were beaten, beaten, banned, banned, banned - to come in and testify. So this fascism, we are clear, we condemn it wherever it comes. But you have a monopoly in your criticism. So there is no lawlessness in the country, ladies and gentlemen. Laws exist and it is unfair for the country, especially at a time when our country is choosing as a tourist destination for millions of citizens - every year we break the record, we broke this year - to give this image of lawlessness, infraction, insecurity and we live in Gotham City rather than in Athens. [[Noise in the Chamber]] It was Batman City, Gotham City, where it happened everywhere...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-23-S1-commons.u26	Gotham City.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-23-S1-commons.u27	That's what I said. Yesterday, ladies and gentlemen, the dean of the National Technical University of Athens announced a collaboration with the famous University of Columbia, New York, with students coming to study here. Are these Columbia leaders so stupid that they proceeded to such an agreement if, as you say, the National Technical University is a man of lawlessness, indiscriminateness, where there are no studies, no lessons? Are they such fools? And you are finally thinking, in order to vote, to create impressions and to fish in the blundering waters of a far-right perception and you are currently creating damage to the image of our country's public universities. And what I'm telling you is not, Mr. Mitsotakis, a shape of speech. Because I would like to remind you that this agenda you have chosen, to ask every three and a little on the same subject, is an agenda that will not favour you politically at the end of the day. If anyone will benefit politically, it is the ones who first showed this agenda. And I would like to remind you that the same monopoly on questions about lawlessness and crime demonstrated, during the period when, of course, we had more increased cases 2012-2013, the Members of the Golden Dawn, with questions both to Mr Teddy and to other government ministers of Mr Samaras, then. They were repetitive questions about the exacerbation of crime and drug trafficking at the Aristotle University, dealing with crime in the city centre and other questions that anyone who wants to ask can refer to. So I come to the evidence. There's no policing deficit. There's a crime problem, obviously. But no policing deficit. In the area around the University of Economics between 2012 and 2014, 560 arrests had been committed on your days for crimes such as drug trafficking. From 2015 to 2017 they had become 1060, that is, double. And the parade trade has been hit, since only this year have 37,000 smuggled cigarette packs, 15,500 paradoxes. In the area of Aristotle University, two years 2012-2014, over your days, there were 141 arrests. In 2015-2017 there were 605 arrests. And only this year have 48 police operations at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, where you say they can't get in because of asylum - in cases of drug trafficking and 239 arrests have been made. Suffice a call, a simple complaint from a student, a passer, a citizen to intervene with the police. You know that. Why are you publicly lying that there is no possibility of police intervention because of the asylum? So where are the tied hands of the police that SYRIZA has tied them up? Another myth is falling apart. So we, ladies and gentlemen, work on these issues without screaming for the best possible outcome. We are the only government that publicly stated that there is a problem of infringibility and that dealing with it is something extraordinary. That is why we have not been tied up to look, but we have taken an initiative that you have taken. It wasn't Mr. Paradise's initiative. You have targeted the former Minister of Justice, again for reasons of communication, again to fish in the blurred waters of the extreme right-wing audience, a leading scientist, a democrat man, who, as he was Minister and now as a Member of this House, never came out with crowns but on political grounds and arguments. You are targeting him to show that SYRIZA is linked to lawlessness, to infringement, because Mr. Paradropoulos has proceeded with a law to dismantle prisons. And a committee created by Mr Gavroglou and not by Mr Paraskevi, you called it the "Committee on Paraskevi"! And obviously before you even read what the conclusion of this committee says, you rushed to speak with the worst words, that we are ideological, that we are irresponsible and that the universities will cleanse the gangs and be attributed to their students and teachers again when you come to power. You told us today. Who took this finding off - which you didn't read - Mr. Mitsotakis? You will be told by Mrs Keramea, of course, by a few notes. But you didn't read it. I'm sure you didn't read it because you have the elementary civil courtesy. You wouldn't have succeeded on these terms to Mr. Paradoxopoulos if you'd read it. It was therefore taken out by a committee attended by the President of the University Rectors' Conference, the President of the TEI Rector's Synod, an Deputy Prosecutor as the Prosecutor, a representative of the police, academics, forensicists, and specialist scientists on drugs issues. Are all these, Mr. Mitsotakis, the ideals and the irreparables? So, are the representatives of the universities, the prosecutor's and the police, who are you accusing us of wanting our public universities to be controlled by gangs? So much now has this evil SYRIZA managed to erode all the institutions of this country? And because you didn't read it, I'd like to tell you his three main points. Firstly, it formulates some combined positions. The creation at each university of a network of people in which representatives of all directly or indirectly responsible bodies, such as prosecutors, prosecutors, police, students, are involved, in order to care throughout the year and not only when there is a problem with asylum issues, that is to say, to prevent them from healing. Secondly, given that asylum does not in any way prevent the police from intervening, whether there is a complaint or if it sees how drug trafficking and other felonies are being traded, from establishing in each institution the criteria on which the police will be called on for the lowest crimes, for example in which areas they are made, etc. Thirdly, clear and visible boundaries should be entered into university spaces when these spaces are open. To know what the framework of the university space is. And fourthly, to strengthen research and training on drug prevention issues. Do you have any objections to that, too? The event was sent to the conventions and to the student groups together and was sent to the young people of the political parties. The youth of the New Democracy received it and sent an answer just the same day. He was able to study it and gave an answer. The answer, of course, was that the conclusion is a pussy. And Mr. Mitsotakis, also on the same day, made a tweet that it's swallowing, turning from abroad, if I'm not mistaken. Is this the dialogue that you are pursuing on these major and serious issues that we recognise and attempt - with different ideological positions, but are we trying to resolve them? But you don't want a solution. You want political exploitation - that is what you want to do - and this is what you want to do by destroying and putting fake elements on the table. And since I referred to the drugs issue, the big drugs issue, since it affects a large proportion of Greek youths, it will obviously also affect a proportion of young people in the spaces. Do you really think, Mr Mitsotakis, that this issue can only be solved by policing? What country has this done internationally? And since you may not have studied, as you did not study the findings of the committee and the conclusion of the UN Commission on Drugs Control, I would like to tell you that the UN Commission is talking about a combined implementation of anti-demand policies and policies against supply by all actors. Combination actions suggest. Only you around the world insist on believing that repressive and violent operations are enough to eliminate this phenomenon by magic. The answer to a question of my own rhetorical question has been that 'yes, only in Greece do these happen'. And that's not true. I have the article "GUARDIAN" which is based on elements of research carried out at four and a half thousand students from a hundred and fifty three different institutions in the United Kingdom, where, as we know, there is no university asylum and most of them are outside the urban fabric. The shocking result of this investigation is that it says that 62% of respondents responded to the fact that they have fallen within the university's area of sexual violence and indeed the shocking element was that 8% of women said they had been raped inside the university. What do I mean by that, Mr. Mitsotakis? I mean, when criminal and violating behaviour is a phenomenon of social reality in which we live, we cannot, because it is politically beneficial, target the university. We cannot, because it is politically beneficial, discredit the university and, above all, the public university, when these phenomena are phenomena that are unfortunately happening in the best and most advanced countries in terms of security or, in any case, we think they are, like the United Kingdom. I do not want to get far and I will go back to my dentistry, where I would like to give some answers because I believe that the main reason for targeting the public university on your part is an ideological obsession, in relation to the need for further degeneration, so that the need to go to private universities can be made apparent in Greek society. But I am not opening this now and I will come back, if necessary. I would like to conclude - to have dialogue and not parallel monologues - by saying this: You have a very selective vision of violations within the Greek universities. We see all the things that you have referred to and we are trying to give solutions. You see only the things that are of interest to you, only the "Rubics" you see in the Universities. You see the incidents outside the AACC, but for some reason your look stops at the entrance of the building and doesn't go in the middle. For example, you don't see that at that same University your student party, the DMG, was arrested setting up a whole familial to copy the exams! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] A whole complex system with smartphones, intercom, everything! As you also do not see that some time ago in Patras the SGP's party came out and publicly supported the hundreds of six students who copyed and delivered almost all the same work. These are your perfect ones, Mr. Mitsotakis! That's the logic of your excellence! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So we see the problems, we care about them, we do not want to create, we want to conduct a policy - if you want - fishing in blurry waters or impressions to create any demagogue, because it is a demagogy of what you are doing. So come on, let us see one - one - the issues of lawlessness and crime and answer them, give solutions to them, not austerity. Compensation, Mr Mitsotakis, relates to a previous century, the Middle Ages, not today. Let go of the extremisms and come with arguments and finally draw up a specific proposal on the problems facing the public university today. If you're an enemy of the public university, say it openly. But if you say that we need to deal with his problems and strengthen it, we are here to listen to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-23-S1-commons.u28	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, thirty-nine students and students and three educational attendants from the 3rd Kozani Gymnasium (second section). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Mitsotakis, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-23-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr Tsipras, for referring to yesterday's walk in your neighborhood. I'm afraid if I wanted to get to your house, I'd have had some trouble with the slugs that guard it...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-23-S1-commons.u30	What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-23-S1-commons.u31	...as I imagine in Maximus. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-23-S1-commons.u32	There's no one! Yours might be.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-23-S1-commons.u33	Please, ladies and gentlemen, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-23-S1-commons.u34	The Court ruled as follows: Mr President, after the Prime Minister's position, I imagine that there will be no objections and with your agreement that we should schedule for next Friday an pending debate on the question of the vote of Greeks living abroad, which we have tabled for six months and not discussed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-23-S1-commons.u35	Whatever you want!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-23-S1-commons.u36	And on Friday morning, we will discuss another proposal for a prior-day debate on refugee issues, the mismanagement of refugee funds, as identified by the OLAF and all this unacceptable situation, which you have launched in open-air prisons in Moria and Samos. I imagine, Mr Tsipras, that you will be here every Friday - and with your assent, Mr President - we can start next Friday with the issue of the vote of residents outside Greece and the next Friday with the issue of refugee. Very good, then, we solved this procedural issue, so that you wouldn't be telling us that we are only asking you questions about the matters of law and order. I'm afraid you're underestimating them, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-23-S1-commons.u37	"Questions at the Prime Minister's time" I said. Don't mess it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-23-S1-commons.u38	I'll be on the Prime Minister's time, don't worry about that at all. We have too many issues to ask you, but let us start with what we have already asked questions, so that you do not mislead the National Representation of how you operate and when you want to avoid Parliament and when you do not want to avoid it. Let us begin by discussing what we have already started. Mr. Tsipras, your answer is that I'm in trouble. And I was troubled because you either spoke as if you were not aware of what is happening today in the country or were consciously chosen not to hear what I told you. I have raised about half of my speech, without presenting my own arguments, Mr Tsipras. I spoke about the situation described by students and teachers at the major universities. They have a situation which has nothing to do with what happened some years ago, Mr Tsipras. Because I do not remember having corresponding indignation letters from students who are complaining about a situation that is out of control. First of all, I told you that the issues of violence and lawlessness at university are not something new, it's something old enough. However, I have accused you of being devastated, because in your own conscious tolerance these phenomena have been devastated over the last three years. I would like to return to a number of questions which, Mr Tsipras, you have not answered. You referred to the conclusion of the Friday's Committee. We commented, we criticized it. We consider it to be unacceptable, which does not answer the major question of how the public space returns safely to those who really have to use it. However, I would like to ask you directly, Mr Tsipras: do you tolerate occupations of public spaces, yes or no? I would like to have an answer. Do you think it makes sense today within a university to have a collectiveity which has previously been openly in favour of armed violence, which occupyes a public space? He's threatening and shaking students and teachers, and you're whistling like nothing is happening at all. What's your answer, Mr. Tsipras, to this? Do you agree or disagree? Should the State or should it not intervene in cases where public spaces are in possession? A corresponding incident you know we also have in Chania, where a historical collectiveity of Chania has been understood for several decades, an area that belongs to the Polytechnic University of Crete and which the Polytechnic University wants to use and stumble on the inability of the Greek state to remove this collectiveity. Is that in line with your own logic of how a rule of law should function? You mentioned, Mr Tsipras, abroad and told us that what is happening in Greece is happening in many universities and more advanced countries. But are you serious, Mr. Tsipras? Is there a university in Europe today, which presents the image of the Metsovian Polytechnic or the Aristotle University? Where are these things happening in any European country, Mr Tsipras? Where is this picture of the total abandonment, this dump, this booze-go-go-go-go-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo? Have you gone to walk to Patisia, Mr. Tsipras, seen what happens every time the police arrives, and how do the various drug dealers and traffickers enter the Economic University and then the police move away without delay? Have you seen these things happen in any other European country? Why do you claim that we, by highlighting a reality which all students share, at least the large majority of students and the large majority of teachers, are discrediting the public university? Are we defaming it because we raise a problem that is real? Aren't you telling me, when Reuters report here and publish articles titled "Greek university halts classes to protest over drug use on it doorstop" and "Greek universities provide safe hasn't we drive these publications? [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above mentioned articles, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr Tsipras, for reasons that suit you, you also have a perfectly beautiful picture here. You told us you wanted to deal with the problem and you couldn't. Really? Are you getting comfortable with this situation somewhere? Is this whole provocative tolerance, which you show to various groups, which find a natural shelter within universities, a preparation for what can be done the next day? Would you allow these groups now to do a painless education, so that the next day, if there is a change - which, as it seems, will come and will soon be - will be overthrown in the streets and burn Athens, as they burned in 2008, when you said no, Mr Tsipras? [[Vibrant applause from the New Democracy Wing]] Because we remember your ideological advances. We remember SYRIZA of 3%. We remember SYRIZA, who at the time, not just whistled indifferently, but almost closed the eye on those who burned in Athens. So you are not responsibilities, gentlemen, when it comes to tolerance, which you are showing, to violence. You have your story. Because you once again insist on distorting what I have said, Mr. Tsipras, once again, that the womb of domestic Greek terrorism, as expressed by 17 November and all the organisations associated with it, is the womb of the extremist extra-parliamentary Left. Whether you like it or not, this is a hard historical reality that we have paid for in blood and we will not tolerate seeing these phenomena again! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You mentioned once again that we have a desire to undermine the public university, because we want to give the private universities room in this way. Mr. Tsipras, our entire programme is about how we upgrade the public university, how we make it an autonomous, free, creative one, how we connect our studies to the labour market, how universities can offer foreign language programmes, so that Greece can become a educational podium for regional development. That is what our programme is talking about, ladies and gentlemen, for the public university. However, I am very surprised, Mr Tsipras, that you referred to a partnership, which I have read and I wish it could be implemented between the Polytechnic and Columbia. Don't you tell me Columbia what it is? Public university? Is Columbia a public university? Is Columbia a private non-profit university, to which you referred?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-23-S1-commons.u39	What does that have to do with anything?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-23-S1-commons.u40	So, yes. Let's go later, then. So why do you, in your constitutional ideal, ban the creation of a university like Columbia in Greece? I want to inform you of something, because, because you don't know these issues very well, you have a view that the non-profit private university is a university...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-23-S1-commons.u41	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-23-S1-commons.u42	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-23-S1-commons.u43	Ma'am, will you finally be quiet? If you can't, come on out!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-23-S1-commons.u44	I'm a university student!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-23-S1-commons.u45	Come on out! You don't have to be in the Chamber!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-23-S1-commons.u46	Are you a critic? You're getting out of the Chamber whoever you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-23-S1-commons.u47	Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-23-S1-commons.u48	Let me tell you that many of the major American universities are not profitable, but they are private and have the possibility today, precisely because they are very rich, to offer equal treatment to all students regardless of their financial situation. The mayor of New York, offered the University of Johns Hopkins 1,8 billion euros, with one single purpose, to be able to accept any student who deserves to enter Hopkins and pay him tuition fees if he cannot pay them. And you, with your insistence, forbid Greece to do the same and then tell us that you are in favour of equality and equal opportunities! You're hypocrites, anachronists, stuck not in the last century, but in the middle ages! Is that reasonable, Mr. Tsipras? [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from the New Democracy Ward]] [[Noise from the ministerial benches]] All right, let me know after Mr. Gavroglou.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-23-S1-commons.u49	All right, Mr. President, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-23-S1-commons.u50	Mr. Tsipras, answer me this and I'll be done. If a large institution comes tomorrow, the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, the Onassis Foundation, as has been done in many other cases in our neighbouring Turkey, which large institutions supported by important business families have built universities, and it says today: 'I want to put 500 million, I want to put 1 billion and make a non-profit, but private university, not public', can it, Mr Tsipras, or can it do so? He can't do it! And you to satisfy some of your own left-wing minorities are deprived of this possibility from the country. That is why you should answer if you really want to broaden the debate on education. As for the rest, all I can tell you is that in your arrogant first place, you have not despised the New Democracy, you have despised the teachers, the students, who daily express their despair at what is happening at the Greek university. And thank you very much for really helping them to understand that they can't expect anything from you anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-23-S1-commons.u51	Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras has the floor for his denology for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-23-S1-commons.u52	Can I come to Stepma?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-23-S1-commons.u53	Yeah, that's the way it is. It's for ten minutes and there's also a flexibility in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-23-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. As long as it's ten minutes, I'll speak from the Step, since we have that possibility. Mr Mitsotakis, I told you in my first speech that the reason why you are targeting public universities is precisely because you have an idealism, which I will try to analyse in this time left in relation to private universities. Before that, however, I would like to inform you - so that there is no question of there remaining anything unanswered - that the amendment of the Asylum Act is an amendment which has made it much more operational than in the past decades, where there was a law on asylum on your own governments and we were actually in front of a dead end, which at some point led to very negative phenomena. For example, it is what I told you, that the Polytechnic was burned and it was not burned on our day, because then there was a malfunction in the legal framework. Someone was looking to find a committee to make a decision, which was never made. It was years when I was a student and a member of the National Technical University Senate, and I remember them. Today, then, there is not that. The Proctor's Board can make a decision on his initiative. So when you open up an issue and put it so strongly in relation to whether political events, occupations of public spaces, should be suppressed, I will answer you very clearly in this regard. The public university - whether or not those who take the initiatives for collective processes today have ideas and opinions that we like or do not like - from the time we were born, in the 16th century, is autonomous and must be a place where the movement of ideas - we like them, we do not like these ideas - will be free. When these ideas lead to crimes, the state must obviously have foreseen the possibility of intervention. However, it is another thing to go back to a logic which does not apply anywhere in our urban democracy, as far as private or public space is concerned. In other words, in any public area, even in a private area, for one to intervene, one must intervene with a prosecutor, because one cannot enter the home for no reason. So let us put aside an issue, which you want to raise - in my view - for obvious reasons, because with my arguments I have answered - I believe - and I spoke with information, I spoke with research, I spoke with studies, I referred to what is happening abroad, not by taking it out of my belly, but from a specific article in approved newspapers. So you raise an issue in order to gain political impressions without relying on some reality. But you said, Mr Mitsotakis, in your speech again - and this is the result of your constant obsession and idealism - that in this place blood from terrorist practices has a specific ideological reference. You make a double mistake to insist on this position. I was hoping you'd fix it today. And you're making a double mistake, because you know very well that they were dead on both sides of the ideological map and not only whenever it's of interest to you. Because it's not just his phenomena today. I have referred to Paul Bridge, and I shall refer to other cases, because for us it does not only matter if he is a Greek who has been affected. The "invasion orders" of the Golden Dawn have victims of immigrants living in our country and we also had dead. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] However, I shall also refer to the recent past, because for us as much value as the blood of civilians who have fallen from terrorist acts - completely condemned by us and I believe in the entire political world - who have been in the ideological political spectrum not on the left, another value is also the blood of Nikos Tempnotas, Mr Mitsotakis. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And we can't put the blood on the people who've been lost. I now come to your other ideological obsession on Article 16. And I want to tell you, Mr. Mitsotakis, that we defend the public university. The public university is not an ideological arrest of the Left. He was born all over the world centuries before a real need, the need for societies to make collective progress. When sciences in the modern world began to gain ground against superstitions, dogmas, then societies defined as one of their main priorities the investment in knowledge. Knowledge, however, is a living organism. It cannot be confined to certain illuminated minds. It must be disseminated, evolved, transformed into a free field, ungrateful by central power. Access to knowledge must be universal, regardless of origin, social or class status. This is how the idea of the public university was born around the planet. The collective leaps of societies have taken place through this. New ideas, new concerns, new answers were created. The public and universal character of the university is the necessary oxygen for every science it cures. It is what ensures it two very key components for its development. The first is the possibility for all citizens to have access to knowledge. The second is freedom against all kinds of influences by interests, authoritarianisms, any possible attempt to ride it either by political power or economic power in our day. The space you represent has a structural problem with these two elements. One element is that you understand universal right to knowledge as a levelling-up. It is not the elites, the heirs, to have the same starting point as the rest of the mortals! And what you've made your flag for excellence, I'd say, for example, that's all. We have another perception. We support a system that gives birth to exquisite and worthy, regardless of the class position and origin of each. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] You, however, are not interested in this because you have defined from the outset who are or are intended to be the perfect, the chosen ones because of social status and class origin. Others can reproduce their modesty somewhere away from the blue blood, not to mention and contaminate the blue blood! The other thing is that you want education that is committed to interests rather than to general good. You say this kindly, with modern conditions today, of course: a market link with the universities. But you don't mean a connection, because we want the connection. You mean subjection of universities to the market, that is to say the market which defines the direction of research and the knowledge provided. In other words, when the market decides that it is not social sciences, then social sciences will be useless to us. When the market decides that it is not profitable to deal with history, then to abandon history research. When the market decides not to overthrow issues of environmental protection, because they prevent growth - some interests may be hampered - then cut the funds for research on this issue. But if the market defines the knowledge provided, if education becomes a consumable commodity, then society falls apart, because knowledge cannot function in terms of supply and demand. For us, then, knowledge is selfish, regardless of whether the person who gets a diploma from the university will be able to find after work, because that is another story. We have now reached a point today that there is a higher rate of unemployment among graduates with university degrees than among graduates in high school and high school. This, however, is a market issue. Knowledge is selfish. And the more young people educated we have, the better for collective, social progress. So I come to your argument. You ask for the establishment of private universities. Yes, sir. You arrived at the point where you told us that Columbia collaborates with the National Technical University. [[Noise in the Chamber]] All right, 'Colambia'. Excuse me. I'm not as good as Mr. Mitsotakis. He is, in fact, working with the National Technical University. It doesn't stop anything from working together and having common programs. Do you have the slightest doubt that if, as you say, we change Article 16, will the 'Colambia' - as you say - come in here - the Princeton, Yale, Oxford or other universities, set up annexes? Will it be built in Greece, that is, private universities of the level, the education provided and the quality of these universities you mentioned, which have been made since 1700 and 1800? Is that what you think? And why has it not been done anywhere else in Europe?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-23-S1-commons.u55	It's happening everywhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-23-S1-commons.u56	Really? So come and see what is going on and what is European experience, because you are constantly trampling the same lie with short feet, the international experience. What is the international experience? I do not even want to refer to private speculative institutions. Note: Profit institutions means that shareholders want to gain and share it. A university which will have an elementary level above mediocre - and I am not talking now about a multi-technical or medical school, but a university which is in fact able to furnish - will have for each student, according to the studies that we and the Ministry of Education know - an annual cost of over EUR 10,000, without any scholarships. If at this cost one also takes into account the infrastructure to be built - buildings, workshops, logistics - then at least EUR 50 000 000 is an initial investment and EUR 10,000 per year for each student. How, then, will they come to make such an investment here and what kind of quality knowledge will they have if we change Article 16? Unless it's the predator's. Internationally we have seen in the European area over the past twenty years many such institutions of the domination of neoliberal logic, the predator, which they opened, took what they were about to take, without investing in infrastructure, and the other day they closed down. Sooner or later - I would say, enthusiastically - they have failed. But let's go to non-profit, because I imagine you're talking about it or whatever, which is why it's worth comparing our ideas, because for the rest it's not worth confronting our ideas. In Europe, with the exception of those countries which had the status of existing socialism until 1989 - where then they became 'drink dogs' - the universities are almost exclusively public, with differentiated funding schemes. The important thing is: If some universities have tuition fees, that does not mean they are private. Many public universities in Europe have either registration fees or tuition fees. In Europe, therefore, there is no such phenomenon that you are referring to, no great university on the other side of the Atlantic has gone and set up a university of equal value with those on the other side of the Atlantic, where, for other reasons, historical - it is not the time to analyse them now - the birth of the American state, universities which are private, but which behave on much more stringent terms and criteria against the quality of knowledge provided than other public universities. I would therefore like you to tell me, Mr Mitsotakis, an example of a private university in the European area which is of high quality as far as knowledge is concerned. You say competition will help public universities. This has not occurred anywhere either in the field of secondary education. There, of course, are other criteria, because there is a central control of the knowledge provided by the state, the curriculum of study, while academic culture should never allow us to think about the State intervening in research and in the knowledge provided and in the context in which knowledge flourishes in the academic community and in the field of higher education. So tell me what example of a private university in Europe you have in your mind, where the knowledge provided is of a high level and what example you have to give to me in which competition has helped or could help public universities, which you have otherwise targeted, defamated and humiliated all this time. Let us now refer to the most important question I would like to put to you. What about the certification of study programmes and professional rights? In what ways will students be introduced to these universities? The New Democracy, as you know, proposes to reduce the number of importers and to establish the bases from each section, which will lead to an even greater decline in the number of importers in public universities. At the same time as doing this, it sheds crocodile tears that our young people are leaving to study in other countries and, therefore, the establishment of private universities could keep them in our country. In other words, the New Democracy has a policy that objectively creates - or attempts to create - a clientele for private universities, without anyone guaranteeing the quality of the knowledge provided in them. Of course, if you want to analyse even more the phenomenon of student leakage abroad, we will see that this student leak is divided into two categories, the heirs I said earlier, namely the elite children who I do not think will ever want to miss the opportunity as long as they have the financial opportunity to study in the "original" and the good private university abroad, in Princeton, in Yale and in Kolambia... [[Laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] ...and to the middle-class children, who because of the fact that they failed to enter a public university in Greece and precisely because of this blessing, I would say that the Greek family wants and insists that children are educated - of course in the past only for doctors and lawyers, but this stereotype begins to fall apart and the labour market leads us to dissolve - they leave abroad, exhausting all possible financial adequacy of their families. So, these children, which will enable them - not intactly - to study at a Greek university, what degrees will they get? I do not consider the knowledge provided and its quality at all, but what degrees they will receive. What about the certification of these programmes and what about their professional rights? We, therefore, Mr Mitsotakis, say that these issues are very important and we are open to a very substantial debate with arguments. Let's talk one by one. We don't, as you say, have any ideas or bumps for anyone. We have strong opinions. You may disagree with them, but we have opinions and arguments. Of course, we also have an alternative plan, perspective and vision for the upgrading of higher education provided in our country. That is why we say that the only solution is to upgrade public universities, to strengthen their financial support, to support teaching and research staff. Of course you, Mr Mitsotakis, must know that, because you have a past which we cannot forget. In 2014 you were your government Minister for Administrative Reform and the Samara government then proceeded to mass dismissals of more than a thousand hundred managers of the largest university institutions in the country, causing the abrupt deterioration of their services. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] It was you! So everyone has his story and the views he submits cannot be separate from the past and from his history. So, Mr Mitsotakis, and then the Minister of Education called universities as a feud of lawlessness, as you are doing today. But you were the ones who despised public universities. We are therefore saying financial support for logistical infrastructure, for staff, for rationalising their structure with the establishment of new sections, with new cognitive objects, that is, what it is doing now with a project, patience and excellent diligence of the Ministry of Education, where it has created a new architecture for higher education institutions in our country with mergers where consensus can be made - and it has been shown that in many cases - technological institutions and higher education institutions, with the abolition of TEIs, which cannot give any prospect and any way out to their graduates. This is a holistic plan for the upgrading of public education and not the logic of the supermarket through the Revision of the Constitution. I'm closing, Mr. Mitsotakis, telling you this. When you went up to Stepma, you suspected once again in the mistake of telling me that you didn't come to my house to drink a coffee, because I have horns of MATs. Mr. Mitsotakis, you know what? I invite you to come, honestly. You won't see a single cage of MATs. I don't know if you do. Because there was indeed a cage of MATs in 2015. In 2016, on my own command, not only from me, but also from others who protested too much here in Parliament, hundreds of police officers who were guarding VIP people to go to the neighborhood. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] So I don't have either out of my house or out of my office. You, Mr. Mitsotakis, were the ones who, from 2010 to 2015, had filled with railings in Athens, even the Syntagma Square and could not go through, no one could go forward. Well, in this police-prisoned Athens, in this police-prisoned Greece to implement the IMF policies, both in the economy and in education, our country will not live again. Be well!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-23-S1-commons.u57	The debate on the current question to the Prime Minister has been concluded. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-23-S1-commons.u58	With the consent of the House at 12.46 p.m. the sitting for the next Monday, November 26, 2018, at 18.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
