ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-18-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 17-1-2018, the Minutes of the NZ Bureau were confirmed on Wednesday 17 January 2018 with regard to the vote on the entire draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy: “Energy Communities and other provisions”.]] I have the honour to inform the House of the current Questions Release of Friday 19 January 2018. Oh, I'm sorry. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 845/16-1-2018 by MP Fthiotidas of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Sarakiotis to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the subject: "Insufficient coverage of television signal and online services in Fthiotida Law". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 852/16-1-2018 by Mr Georgios Vlachos, Member of the Republic of New Democracy, to the Minister of Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, on the subject: 'Elepsina coastal front to the citizens of the city'. 3. The question by No 824/15-1-2018 of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Migration Policy, concerning the "relocation of anti-coronal immigrants into hosting structures and the immediate evacuation of the two informal camps". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under No 848/16-1-2018, a topical question by MP II Athens, New Democracy, Miltiadis Varvitsiotis, to the Minister for Migration Policy, on the subject: 'Understood the decongestion of the islands of the eastern Aegean'. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by number 801/11-1-2018 of the Member of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMARMAR Mr.Michael Jeleli to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "Reimbursement of customs producers - Reconstruction plan for the Greek Sugar Industry (EBZ)". "B" A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under No 752/8-1-2018, a topical question by MP I Piraeus of the New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "What goals has our country caught in the battle for climate change?". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 758/8-1-2018 by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: “Incorporation of sewerage networks and treatment of sewage treatment of Kontovasina, Levidi and Kallianios Arcadias”. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on "Financing from PPC S.A." the work of improving the street Pournaria - Kyri Bridge - Mygdalia, amounting to 500.00 euros". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 738/3-1-2018 by Independent MEP Mr. Efstathiou (Stathia) Panagoulis to the Minister for Migration Policy, on the subject: "The decision of the "left" Government on the cancellation of asylum to the Air Force officer Uzkainakshi Suleiman". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We begin with the third with number 823/15-1-2018, a timely question from the first cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARKKKKKOS KEgeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "To get thousands of our fellow citizens, insured by the OAU and OGA, who are today without income and without pension". The State Secretary for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr Anastasios Petropoulos will respond. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-18-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. The objective of my timely question and previous parliamentary interventions is to decapitate thousands of insured, farmers, professionals, micro-enterprises who have completed the insurance life, that is to say, before retirement, but cannot be retired because their debts are above the level that is applicable and can only be adjusted by a one-off payment of this extra amount. In particular, there are farmers who have accumulated debts, especially after the cost of the last two years, over EUR 4,000, who cannot retire, because they cannot pay this one-off sum, and the pension is not approved in order to keep the amount involved. The same applies to professionals for more than EUR 20,000, which is why we are calling for a solution. The Minister, while stating that he is in the mood to resolve the matter and give us a way out, is referring us from a bill to a bill. And, of course, it abolished the provision that was voted on almost all of this House, which gave the right to debts of up to EUR 50,000 to retire the professional. He abolished this provision, not personally, his Government. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-18-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The State Secretary for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr Anastasios Petropoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-18-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Perhaps the reason is that you love me very much, Mr Kegeroglu, and you want to see me often, because the answer is very understandable to everyone and I have explained, I think, in a convincing way that the amount of debts that the free professionals have made, if we go to the fifty thousand you say, which is a regulation that was in place until September 2015 and it was determined from the outset that this arrangement would only be valid for four months, because the purpose of the arrangement was to facilitate the entire world that had really been broken down and destroyed in the previous years of the crisis created by all these debtors, it would have to be in this period that those who were really able to regulate it and did so as well. If we extend them indefinitely and forever, you must count on the following: that the contributions, as they have been made at the lowest level, namely at EUR 158 of the free-professionals, if we go to 50,000, do not have to pay contributions. At 15 years they receive a retirement pension corresponding to 15 years and will therefore cover without contributions the insurance time it takes. If we take it to the farmers at 20,000 when you say that the levy is already 87 euros per month for farmers, it goes on to say that for ten years and eight months a farmer does not have to pay contributions. It can take up to 15 years of insurance - pension and keep its contributions from the pension he receives. You realise that this is disastrous for social security. He loses the character of universality and obligability. I will explain, however, that what we promise is that we will find ways and solutions for a world that really needs to be facilitated. We're already doing this on the platform that's coming in from February. The hundreds of about thirty thousand farmers with a debt of EUR 4,000 and below will be able to enter into this arrangement. It's easy. To pay off, in ten years, debts. To facilitate and pay their contributions. In three years, the debt is up to 3,000 euros. In three years, then, they can meet such obligations and take retirement. I think they can do that. We have two hundred and eighty-four thousand free professionals with debts up to 20,000 euros. The possibility of adjusting debts is given. I believe that this move will give another picture in the field of debtors. We'll make it easier for the debtors. They'll be shortened, and we'll give a breath to this world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-18-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-18-S1-commons.u6	But instead, Mr President. First of all, when I had asked the question on this issue again on 8-5-2017, the Minister said to us: 'We will give a solution'. However, the Government proceeded with the adoption of the provisions of Law 4469 published on 3-5-2017. "And I will go ahead with the adoption of a ministerial decision which will specifically regulate, on the basis of criteria and conditions, much more on the subject of free professionals and farmers. And there we will see the possibilities that we will use from this provision for the payment of the contributions due." Last week, last week, we had a question again about the implementation of Law 4469: "Why were there not certain provisions that the Minister had made to us in May?" The Minister's smokes: 'I'll bring provisions'. So last week, we ask: 'Why do you not include these specific provisions for farmers and free professionals who are at the pre-retirement stage?' And the Minister tells us: 'But these issues concern other provisions, pensions'. So we are bringing him here today for pension provisions and for the regulation of debts. And to say in other words what the Minister says, listen: I take an example of a farmer who owes 8 000 euros. The Minister says to him: "You will give all 8,000 euros, otherwise you will not get, hungry, not hungry." That's what the Minister tells him. What does the law say? It says: "I can set you up to 4,000 euros, I can't do more." That's what the clerk says. A farmer who no longer has an activity and wants to get his pension. And you tell him 'no'. As far as the 8,000 euros are concerned, then, we also take the case that it will not give up 4,000 euros, which will not give EUR 1 000 and regulate all 8,000 euros, how much pension it receives? Does it take 400 euros, 500 euros? How much did you leave him? You left him 500 euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-18-S1-commons.u7	That's how much it took.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-18-S1-commons.u8	We therefore receive EUR 8 000 in debts with EUR 500 in pension. In two years, and a few months, he has repaid the debt. What does the Minister say to us? That he doesn't know if he lives two and a half years to get it? What's he telling us? If I'm not cheating, 250 euros a month for 12 months will be 3,000 euros. One year, 3,000 euros, next year, 3,000 euros make us 6,000 euros. All 2,000 euros in the third year. In about two and a half years, he's paid back. What have you been telling us for decades, 15 years and pumpkins? Here are the numbers in particular. So will you increase the sum of EUR 4 000, even EUR 8 000 - and I say to you at EUR 10 000, I am not telling you at EUR 20,000 - even at EUR 8 000, so that all those who ought to and want to retain their pension will be able to pension them? They don't even live. You don't even give them the chance! Will you increase the EUR 20,000 to farmers, even EUR 25 000, to EUR 30 000? Is that absurd what the whole House had voted for? And your government, the whole parliamentary group, had voted for it, and then you abolished it, because you became - you say - more prudent. Have you become more wise or more refreshable? We are therefore asking for answers today on specific questions, otherwise next Thursday we will be here again.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-18-S1-commons.u9	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-18-S1-commons.u10	The fact that the crowd of the rural world is big is what makes you come asking like you care more about them. Voters are cases, not because you don't understand what I'm answering. And it comes out with nothing but mathematical logic, to understand, by putting things down, that the multiple limit to freelance professionals is because the contribution that corresponds and corresponded to freelance professionals a month ago. It cannot - and it is not the way you say it - come not objectively - and it is not right for the social security system - be able, without paying contributions, to stop paying contributions, to receive a pension. And that has always been the case, Mr. Kegeroglu. And after all, I don't understand why you guys seem to care more than the government about a problem that has been explosively piled up in those years, which people have been deprived of the opportunity to pay contributions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-18-S1-commons.u11	Here's Rhodes, behold, and fuck! You'll reduce all 4,000 euros!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-18-S1-commons.u12	That's the problem we're dealing with. And it is indeed possible to incorporate the debtors into the new system of contributions, because it is not too high and the burden is not as high as it was before, it is lower. They have to see it. I call on everyone to see the possibility of joining these debts, to regulate debts as shaped and shaped on the platform. We will also make a special circular that will help people understand and we will have to specialize in examples to see that a free professional can pay his debts easily, conveniently, in the year by adjusting the hundreds of twenty instalments for 20,000 euros. It's been ten years. Of course these two are involved. It's not a question. Why do you want to wonder? Another is the question of regulation in order to receive a pension that we have put at this level and another is the issue of instalment liabilities. Of course, these issues are linked, since when you have to, you cannot get the pension, but these limits that we have set, I think, are possible within the scope of the social security system's ability to withstand the pension obligations. The pension, of course, is not at the level you say. There was no reduction in pensions, especially for farmers who were low. Only a reduction in pensions does not occur. There is an improvement in pension benefits for farmers, which the state at last upgrades to the level of pleasures in the pension right that other Greeks have. This will improve their position in a level playing field, as the Greek state is obliged to have to deal with everyone. We will not change that. It is an upgrade of the lives of rural people, and that is what we will support.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-18-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-18-S1-commons.u14	The other one with Toto, you know?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-18-S1-commons.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Friday 10 November 2017, Monday 13 November 2017, Tuesday 14 November 2017, Monday 20 November 2017, Thursday 23 November 2017 and Friday 24 November 2017 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-18-S1-commons.u16	The minutes of Friday 10 November 2017, Monday 13 November 2017, Tuesday 14 November 2017, Monday 20 November 2017, Thursday 23 November 2017 and Friday 24 November 2017 were therefore validated. We continue with the fourth with the number 773/9-1-2018 topical question of the second question of the Member of the Greek Communist Party, Emmanuel Synhronism with the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Association of a worker, a member of the Board of Directors. of the Trade Union in Milk - Food and Drinks N. Heraklion by “SAVOIDAKIS S.A.”’. The Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity will answer. Mr. Synthrakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-18-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. On December 7th of last year, SAVOIDAKIS S.A. fired the worker Maria Kamitsi, a member of the board of directors of the Trade Union Milk – Food and Drinks Council of Heraklion, who worked in the company. Her dismissal came as a result of the trade union activity of the worker, her election on the union's board of directors and because she was leading the way in the company's bad working conditions and not complying with labour law. More specifically, he reported the circumvention of working hours and working hours, working at shops six days a week for eight-and-a-half hours a day, with fifty-five hours a week, unpaid overtime, delaying wage payments for up to three months - especially during the winter months - delaying the payment of gifts and allowances, owed leave for past years, the existence of cameras in the workplace, the punishment of workers not to speak, the non-content of contact with their union, the fact that they will have criminal responsibilities. The union's complaints were confirmed in full at the tripartite meeting of the Labour Inspectorate, which took place on the initiative of the trade union forty days before dismissal. This angered the company by first resorting to measures to prevent the worker from being prevented from being criticised for its trade union status and activity and because it exposes the company - the 'company - family', as they say, employees with EUR 586 mixed - in a second phase with a mandatory 12-day leave, 'to sit down to think', as they have said, and after the expiry of the licence, to change the workplace. After the company saw that threats don't work, it went into the third phase of its plan, namely dismissal, and had meanwhile refused a meeting with the trade union, as requested, while it went on the way and above by threatening to sue the worker and the union. The dismantling of the labour market, which leads to the redundancy of an elected trade unionist in a newly established trade union notable, which defends workers' rights, does not come in an accidental period or concern only this company. Energy has ripped off literally, and you as a government are playing its hawaii. Press on the avatas you make with your policy, like all previous governments with the labour jungle that has been imposed, the terror of workers to be easily manipulated by the bosses. So, on the basis of all the above, we ask you, Minister, what practical measures will you take as a government directly, but now, because a month and ten days have passed since, so that the trade unionist's unlawful and abusive dismissal can be withdrawn and reverted to work and, secondly, that any attempt to terrorise workers and criminalise its trade union activity should be stopped. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-18-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-18-S1-commons.u19	Mr Syntagakis, Mr 1264/1982 very clearly defines both the protection of trade union officials and the extremely limited cases in which members of trade unions can be fired. It defines - very specifically and very restrictive - reasons, of which the main are related to physical damage to the employer, exaltation, deception or disclosure of secrets in relation to the company. The reasons are extremely restrictive, and this is extremely important, precisely because, in the example you mentioned, we have one case in which the company supports, on the basis of the findings of the Labour Inspectorate, that the worker's attitude was a permanent slandering of the company. It was her speeches. This is in no way confirmed by the workers' statements during the tripartite discussion of the labour dispute that the Labour Inspectorate has carried out. So the position of the Labour Inspectorate is clear that this is an illegal dismissal already from the first degree of the labour dispute, because it is a redundancies, which is a trade union executive. However, even if the reason claimed by the undertaking was true, this was not included in the reasoned grounds of Law No 1264/1982. The position of the Ministry of Labour is that this is obviously an illegal dismissal. What we are going to do right away is call on the company at a trialogue meeting at the Ministry of Labour to demand that this dismissal be withdrawn, and at the level of the Labour Inspectorate, we can move to a second degree, in other words, in order to request the withdrawal of the trade unionist's dismissal. The picture that we and I have personally is that the reason for dismissal is exclusively its trade union activity. None of the other items appear to be claimed by the company. In any case, there are always the courts, which I believe will have quite an easy crisis in this case, without me interfering with their work on the illegal dismissal of the trade unionist.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-18-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-18-S1-commons.u21	Madam Minister, why did it have to be a month and ten days to tell you what you said? And you have a responsibility, and the responsibility lies with the Government and the Ministry of Labour, of course, because it is still pending, as I said, a month and ten days, and you have done nothing so far. Why didn't you do anything? While the syndicate asked you here at the Ministry, you refused and referred it to the Heraklion SAR - that is, I send this glass from me - and it happened in Heraklion the tripartite. The paper on the labour difference simply recorded the fact. In other words, what you said about the working paper does not apply. He simply recorded the fact and the views of the employer and employees by washing his hands on the APR. In fact, I put it in the Minutes too. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Syntrakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] The question is not whether the company insists on appealing to the courts. Because what the card finally says is that, in any case, there is a disagreement and the company will resort to the courts. However, the reasoning of the company on the basis of which it fired the worker for 'unlawful behaviour of the worker and a slandering defamation of the company' - that is what the company says - is not based and has no legal status. Law 1264/1982 refers to Articles 14 and 15: 'unless trade union action, election on the trade union board and claims on workers' rights are criminally collusive'. And you, instead of letting the company get fired back and stop all sorts of smuggling of workers, you've played Pontius Pilate so far. Now you're saying call them in Athens. In any case, we will also see this, although the usual tripartite practice here in Athens is 'but what to do, it is the labour market. We cannot solve the problem." The delay of one month and ten days has to do with the following: we have asked you a simple question and a report, which so far has not been answered. We have asked you the timely question, which has been postponed twice and has come today to discuss with the thousands of sufferings - unjustified in our opinion - and we have also submitted you with a request for documents to be sent from the Heraklion SAR on this matter. You haven't answered us again, even though time has passed. That is, in any case, indifferent. In time, however, you have legislated on behalf of industrialists on the pretext of strengthening democracy in the trade unions, and you have implemented their proper request to limit the right to strike, with 50 plus 1%, which actually leads to a ban on the right to strike. What other proof do you want? Or do you not know about the terrible conditions in the workplace, the blackmail and the terror of the employer as soon as the workers lift their heads? They're fired with the known caramel of the company's slander to get rid of the annoying trade unionists. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Democracy in capitalism, Mr President and Minister, stops outside the factory gates. Inside is the dictatorship of the employer, which you do not only touch but also guard it, as proved by the filthy work of the strike case. In other words, you are strengthening its weapons with the associations of people and the wage lock out and in many other ways. The aim of the employer - everyone knows - is to organise at the workplaces, trade unions, unions that conflict with employers' arbitraryness and terrorism and make demands for the recovery of losses. We say that workers should not be afraid. They must not accept terrorism or the humiliation of the labour force. They must not be slaves in the 21st century. I conclude with that, Mr President: they must stand up and stand up to their dismissal, that the employer must not accept them against it. After all, he is shown by the more than twenty trade unions denounce the dismissal of the worker and stand in solidarity. I would also like to make the relevant resolution in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Syntrakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] On the other hand, they must claim all of this, which they own, that is to say, that the wages owed are paid directly. And that's where you should turn. Not only should the redundancy of the worker be withdrawn but that workers be paid and paid every end of the month. To increase hunger wages. Do not destroy working hours and adjust working time. Immediate payment of all overtime and timely payment of permits. To put an end to employers' arbitrariness and terrorism and to take substantial measures of health and safety in the workplace. Finally, extra recruitment to cover the shifts. For all this, the government, not just has shown no good examples of writing but has now stood up to the workers. The one-way for workers is, therefore, to overturn your policy and also to overturn the appetites of the bosses and industrialists who are looking forward to a fair development, but they are actually looking forward to capitalist growth for the benefit of their profits. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-18-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-18-S1-commons.u23	Mr Syntagakis, I would like to make a few clarifications at the beginning of the procedure: when the worker was brought to the Labour Inspectorate, the first difference in the Labour Inspectorate was made. There is the possibility of going to the second level, to the address level, which will also be done, and there is the possibility of doing tripartite work in the Ministry of Labour, which will also be done, in order to press for the withdrawal of the dismissal, as I have told you, and the Ministry's position is that this is an illegal dismissal, as it seems to be related to the trade union activity of that worker. From that point on, deceiving the tools used by the State in order to intervene in the employment relations in the private sector does not seem to serve any purpose or serve the workers themselves, for which too often thanks to the interventions of the Labour Inspectorate, and thanks to the tripartite differences that occur at the Ministry - you also know them, often many of you are there - you see that it is possible to achieve solutions which are for the benefit of the workers. I am not saying that there is a central solution to all the problems of the world of work in the private sector, nor am I saying that we are solving all the problems with central interventions. But I think that we can and do prove in recent years that with a synergy mainly with the Labour Inspectorate, which can be found and co-operating with unions and having decisive interventions, positive results can be obtained. And I think there can be positive results here too. The example of what happened with the fertiliser workers in Kavala, who were eighty-eight workers back in work, and the example of the blackmail workers who were actually made redundant in Larissa who denounced the employer's pressure to return the holidays - and thanks to the intervention of the Labour Inspectorate - these are both, I think, indicative of how we can have positive results for the protection of workers by means of a cooperation between the central interventions - the Labour Inspectorate, the Ministry of Labour and the unions as well as the autonomous trade unions. But I want to say something else. I am opposed to the dirty work. I believe that this wording of the JRC's development has nothing to do with how the JRC was placed politically in previous years. But I won't extend to that. After all, it's another matter. In the second assessment we said - and we said so many times this time in Parliament - that there was a number of demands on the table, particularly on the part of the International Monetary Fund. These positions are also expressed by BSE very openly. Among other things, there was a change in the time of warning to declare the strike, that is to say, a much longer period of warning on the part of the unions. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] Give me some time, Mr. President, because it has some value... In other words, it will take much longer to warn a union about proclaiming the strike. So, basically, the surprise of the trade union struggle, which is very much based on the element of surprise, would be completely catastrophic. The demand from the International Monetary Fund was for a horizontal cut - and BSE also says - the trade union licences from about 1/3 to 50% of the trade union licences and a change in terms of the way in which they were called, the quorum in deciding strikes, not only in the primary unions, but also in the pan-Hellenic areas. The main concern in this case was the requirement, in a very clear way, to introduce a general dismissal clause for trade union officials, a general dismissal clause. As I said in my first place, Law 1264 contains very specific and very limited offences, which can justify the dismissal of a trade union executive. You can understand that if we did not make the negotiation - and that makes sense for me so long - if, on the opposite side of the table from the International Monetary Fund, the New Democracy was sitting, there would be a general reason for the trade unions to be fired. At the moment, what we are talking about in relation to this trade unionist and the possibility to say that it is illegal and that justice should be involved and that it may require that this illegal dismissal should be lifted would not apply, precisely because there would be a general reason for the dismissal of trade union officials. In the House I have often argued that in the face of these requirements, the change to the quorum, the primary business and only unions was limited in scope in the face of all this, which would be much more horizontal in terms of labour rights. I think that, in this particular example, it proves how dangerous it would have been if there had not been a substantial negotiation on labour in the second assessment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-18-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Minister. The fifth under number 774/9-1-2018 is a topical question by MP II Athens of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on "To stop the terrorism and persecution of workers in the supermarkets of "Karypidis", ensure their right to work and pay their wages". Here, Mr Katsotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-18-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, you know that his best non-slip is always the hand. So you always have that less evil logic. You're the biggest. This has so far been confirmed by all the lines you have followed with the memoranda, the measures which have no end to the workers, and, of course, the last thing that this emblematic is - to say so - a change in the law on strikes, a weapon that has been conquered with blood, with sacrifices of the workers and which you, with this probation of the left-wing workers, are abolishing by opening Hail for the next measures that will come from you, by others, from such forces that meet the needs of capital, manage these needs of this system. Let us reverse the hours, Mr President, three minutes before and two. We are, at last, discussing, almost two months later, the question of the 'Karypidis' supermarque workers who have suffered an orgy of terrorism and persecution, why? Because they claim self-evident, the payment of their wages and the continuation of their work to the successor employer who is the MARKET IN chain. Mergers, takeovers and transfers, in spite of the interventions of the trade unions, their struggles and their demands, are made, in particular, with negative consequences for workers, since they are making use of the whole anti-legislative framework, which you are maintaining in full and you are fulfilling, as we have said, the demands of business groups, giving the tools, as you said before, to implement this whole framework against workers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] These workers who are 18 months unpaid are at risk of losing their home, while you, as a government, are expanding electronic auctions and public debts. In other words, if he does not pay HPAI, the tax office, and the debt is over 700 euros, he is in danger of losing his home as well. The employer who refuses to do the work, the sweat of the workers, has no effect. This is the government's classic, discriminatory attitude to employers, of course, like the previous governments. What do we got? What are the developments after the question, Minister, that you should know? There is a temporary order, immediately enforceable, to continue the employment of workers working in the former ‘Karypidi’ and transferred to the ‘MarkET IN’ chain as a successor. The MARKET IN chain refuses to apply it. And here's the class fairness. It doesn't stop here, of course, but it's all the time. What's he doing? After losing his application for suspension for the execution of a temporary employment order for the workers, he puts on the young workers he has hired to lodge insurance measures against the old. Social automation exploited by the employer, showing the other workers as an enemy, and her own coming out of this barbaric, disgusting policy that she applies to all workers. For this development with the employer to play games, to be unaccompanied, someone has the responsibility, and that is the government. The government is accountable to the workers of the former "KARYPIDI" throughout Greece, as well as to all workers who live in capitalist barbarism. It is class-specific and shows it out of effect and practically, since it uses repression forces to beat workers' claim for self-evidently. He captures those who are leading, those who organize the race, the president of the Work Centre of Ioannina, members of the board of the labour centre, unions, and came to the point of going to the self-sacrificing mother of three children through her home and others, chasing them in their homes. The government manages the needs of business groups, gives everything to satisfy them. We ask you, Minister: will you stop terrorism and prosecuting those who are fighting? Will you take all those measures to get all the workers back to work without redundancies with full rights and stable work? Finally, will you take those measures that are needed to bring the workers into line? We're waiting for your answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-18-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-18-S1-commons.u27	Mr Katsotis, let me briefly say what tools the state and the state have at their disposal to intervene in industrial relations in the private sector. I think it is necessary and I think I am almost repeating every time we discuss these questions of the JRC. I think it is necessary to see, in fact, what possibilities there are, what tools the state has in its hands to intervene, in this context, the urban-liberal state, with this constitution, with its economic freedom, etc. So, with this data, the state's ability to intervene in the private sector - and I am not talking about the law but about the practical possibilities to intervene in the private sector - is first through the Labour Inspectorate, which exercises its control role, imposes fines, controls compliance with labour law or carries out labour disputes. Attention is not a judiciary crisis when the Labour Inspectorate does so. In other words, the decisions of the Labour Inspectorate are not enforceable. But they are worthy and I will say why they are worthy and what examples we have, in which we see that the intervention of the Labour Inspectorate and the findings of the inspectors is of value. So, first of all, it's the Labour Inspectorate. Secondly, it is the Ministry of Labour through tripartite exercises. You are well aware that the Ministry's doors for trimmers are open and are carried out very often and often have good results. We've done more than four hundred cases since that government took over. The third instrument which it has is to provide financial support to workers in order to meet very direct, pressing needs of workers who are working on a job or who have not paid a wage, that is to say, the insolvency of the employer. These three instruments, in fact, have the state at its disposal, at least as far as I am concerned, to interfere in industrial relations in the private sector. These three tools are our political choice to make maximum use of them in favour of the world of work. These were not used in the past time by the other governments, and this difference should be able to recognise it, even though they were institutionalised and often the government's financial potential in its budgets was much greater. As far as the Karypidis case is concerned, it is a case that the Ministry has dealt with many times. In total, too many tripartite meetings have been held in northern Greece. The firm's attitude was totally problematic, completely unreliable. Any meetings that were held and committed to a number of things toward workers did not follow. However, the Ministry has held too many tripartite meetings on this matter. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] Secondly, too many fines have been imposed on the Labour Inspectorate. There have been too many checks in this company for a number of infringements of labour law, more typically I will say the fine of EUR 50 000 imposed on it, when the company refused to provide information, which could prove to be a transfer of an undertaking, so that the new employer would be subject to all the obligations of the old workers. The third instrument that we have put in place was the financial one-off financial assistance for the workers, which was given this EUR 1000 aid to the thousands of two hundred and fifty-three beneficiaries. Let me say a word especially about the Ioannina store, and the rest I'll fill in my dentistry. Especially for the Ioannina shop became the labour difference. It's clear what's happened. ‘MARKET IN’ has fully entered the place of ‘KARYPIDIS’. He fired old workers, hired young workers with much lower wages. It's clear and clear what's going on. We won't disagree at all. The Labour Inspectorate has intervened and the findings of the OSCE are clear, the head of the OSCE says there is a company transfer, so that the new employer must keep at work and the old workers, under the same conditions and the employment relationship that they had before and pay them the wages for late. The same thing was said by the Ministry in the tripartite that took place. As you have rightly said, the decision that exists on the temporary order clearly says that workers should be recruited, should have been hired and therefore they are due for late payments. To say just one sentence, about what can be done from now on, because we do have a judicial decision, which seems to be not being implemented. The workers were right to ask for a labour dispute again, because this is one of the possibilities we have at the moment. In other words, when we have a judicial decision in our hands, which the company does not observe, it can intervene - and this will do - in order to demand the implementation of the decision. However, I should also like to note something else, so that the workers know it. Failure to comply with the judgment constitutes a criminal offence. Workers, in accordance with Article 232 of the Criminal Code, may lodge a complaint against the company for failure to comply with the judgment and the company will be forced - in addition to the payment of a fine, which will be imposed on it - to re-entry and to pay late payments, i.e. salaries which it has not paid since December.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-18-S1-commons.u28	Mr Kattotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-18-S1-commons.u29	Minister, you have made a review of the vocabulary we use before. The vocabulary is Greek. Greek we use in the expressions against this attitude you hold in the thousands of millions of problems that workers have. And you have now spoken about three tools in your hands, which you are making the best use of, unlike previous ones who did not use them and you have, as you have said, results in meeting the demands and needs of the workers. It seems that these three tools you have, Minister, are not enough. Who really prevents you from changing them? Who really prevents you, since there is no effectiveness in the intervention of the Government, which is the head of this state, from legislating, from applying, if anything, those few who are present today, or taking a stand on the demands of the many against the few? Who's blocking you? We have asked here for strict penalties to be applied to the non-payment of the accrued funds. You refused to do it. We have tabled an amendment. But you have refused to tighten up the framework currently in existence for the non-payment of those who have been given the self-sacrificial procedure of the employer himself. There is the law of succession, which in many cases does not apply, because the young employer wants to get rid of the old workers who have rights, who, if you like, are older and want to hire young people with this whole context of working relationships that you have enlarged, the flexible forms of employment, this mosaic, this work jungle you are maintaining. So since you keep this working jungle, you don't have a responsibility too? Isn't it a tool that you've given employers so they can play games and change the workers, take the cheapest to increase their profitability? They're toys, Minister, and here's your responsibility. You are managing this system, you want to recover the profitability of business groups and you are giving it all, beyond the wages that you retain the EUR 586, in addition to the collective agreements that you maintain abolished, and you are essentially talking about not reinstated them. With the collective negotiations that will start from EUR 586 - in addition to all this legislative framework that you create that, if you wish, turns back the workers and their rights too many years - you give them the tool not to be able to claim other wages, satisfyingly, to claim employment relationships differently, to claim what they own, their wages. So the question of strikes has given it as one more - so to speak - a tool in the hands of the employer, one more weapon to stand in the way, to make workers' struggles difficult. We ask, Minister, that you, on the subject of MARKET IN, which is the successor of Karypidi, should take all those measures and not spend any time, effort and money - which they do not have - in the courts so that they can claim self-evidently. You must, as a government, take all these measures to ensure that workers and their jobs come and that those involved are paid, but also to stop the limits of terrorism which you as government are exercising toward workers. The workers have been expelled. You didn't say anything about it. Will the prosecution stop? That's your responsibility, Minister. And MATs when you send them to the detriment of workers to defend the employer is your responsibility. It's a class division. What did you say about that? You didn't say anything. So who went the MATs over there? Who runs homes to arrest a mother of three in front of her children and take her a self-defense? Didn't you? Who did this? So that's what characterizes you. And it characterizes your government.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-18-S1-commons.u30	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-18-S1-commons.u31	Mr Katsotis, to discuss the real facts. All Europe knows that this government raised the issue of restoring collective bargaining, that we have voted to restore them in August 2018. The whole of Europe, the European trade unions made statements in support of the Greek Government for its great battle to restore the principle of more favourable regulation and the expansion of sectoral collective agreements. I do not understand why you say that this government has not tried on the issue of collective bargaining, at least for their rehabilitation, a tool which is very important, which is the key tool so that workers can claim better wages and working conditions. It has become a number one issue of our political pursuits. It was the issue we fought in the most intense way in relation to any other issue in the second assessment, and we gained something that was not self-evident, nor given, the return of collective agreements to less than seven months from now. I consider this to be very important, to restore the negotiating power of the workers. I will also disagree with whether we have done anything in connection with unpaid work. In September we passed a law in Parliament. The Communist Party of Greece voted many of the provisions of this bill. It was particularly concerned with the issue of unpaid, undeclared and undeclared work. This was a result of the contact we had with workers' centres and federations which were putting forward very specific proposals. They helped us in this business. With regard to unpaid work, the first and most fundamental thing that has been introduced is the possibility of issuing a payment order. I think that this is a very important tool for unpaid workers, that is to say, the worker being able to carry out at the expense of the employer's property when unpaid. This is a very basic tool that was not yesterday. I consider this to be very critical and should not be deceived. Secondly, with your amendment you have asked for the non-payment of accrued funds to be considered as a unilateral loss-making change. We adopted it and legislated it too. It is also important to allow workers to be decapitated from an undertaking which does not pay them and receive redundancies. Thirdly, we have managed to be able from the very next day to make use of this right, to receive unemployment benefit from the OAS, and until yesterday that was not the case. He should have made a final decision. Fourthly, we have legislated for quick judicial proceedings, especially when there are entrants' debts. And from what I have been informed since we legislated until today in the two major cities, Athens and Thessaloniki, the decisions about the workers are due to take place in the period described by the legislation, even though many members of the opposition said that the dates would be indicative. People make decisions in their hands within sixty days. Fifthly, for some time now the Ministry of Justice has practically zeroed the judiciary for workers on labour disputes. I do not think that any of what I said to you is not specific, it is not about the lives of workers directly and materially for the next day and it has no practical impact. I think it is wrong to deceive it even if you are criticised correctly and according to the positions of your party you must press for a lasting improvement. These steps cannot be denounced and are not considered steps in the right direction. When we had this debate in the House on that bill, I mentioned one by one. Do they improve the life of the workers? The answer was that, obviously, that's why you voted for it too. As far as the incidents are concerned, this is a complex matter, because there has also been a tension between the old and the new workers. Old workers, in exercising their right to collective action, their legitimate right, given the Ministry's position - as I have already said - to transfer a business here and therefore these people should be in their business, prevented young workers and customers from entering the business. I just described the incident. The D.A. has ordered the police to intervene. When such an order is given by the prosecutor, police officers do not have much room for diversification. The police first went in the middle to separate old and young workers from the tension. In my view, many of the police overreacted. That's my place. But you should know that we are trying to deal with such cases - and that is what we will do from now on - in the softest possible way. I think that the issue of tension between old and new workers has created a very large complexity in this particular event, although I told you what my position is in relation to police interventions in this particular matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-18-S1-commons.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, our Government Secretariat has informed us that the following topical questions will not be discussed: The fourth under number 850/16-1-2018 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Home Affairs, on the subject: “The unacceptable and inappropriate attacks of naval soldiers to Chania on the evening of November 17, 2017,” will not be discussed because of lack of competence, because the Ministry of Justice is responsible and not the Ministry of Interior. The first under number 821/15-1-2018, a top-level question from Samos MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Dimitrios Sevastakis to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Application of proposals, funding course, timetable for work on new conservation, restoration and promotion of cultural monuments in Samos Law. A sustainable recovery plan will not be discussed due to a workload of the relevant Minister, which cannot be here. The second, under No 846/16-1-2018, is the first-round question by MP Kilkis of the New Democracy Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios, on the subject: ‘Problems in the operation of the Department of Border Guard (T.A.) Paionia, it will not be discussed because of an impediment by the Deputy Minister for the Interior, Mr Nicholas Toska. The third, with number 822/15-1-2018, a topical question by the Independent MEP II of Athens Mr.Theocharis Theocharis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport on the subject: "Financial collapse of Road Transport S.A.", will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport Mr. Christos Spirtzis, on the grounds of the official visit to Thessaloniki for the metro projects. The second, with number 782/10-1-2018, timely second question by the Member of Parliament for the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister for Administrative Reconstruction, on the subject: "When will the digital signature be applied?", will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Minister for Administrative Reconstruction, Mr. Olga Gerovasili, with the cause of planned meetings. The first under number 847/16-1-2018, a topical question for the second cycle of the New Democracy MP, George Stylios to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'Annobria and shortcomings in irrigation infrastructures are dramatically reducing the income of olive growers', will not be discussed due to an impediment by the State Secretary for Rural Development and Food Mr.Kingdom of Kokkalis due to misappropriated obligations. The debate on the topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-18-S1-commons.u33	With the consent of the House at 10.35 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, 19 January 2018 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work, parliamentary scrutiny: a debate on topical questions.
