ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House that the Special Standing Committee on Equality, Youth and Human Rights, the Subcommittee on Disabled Persons and the Subcommittee on Combating Trade and the Exploitation of Human Rights are tabling their reports in accordance with Rule 43a(5) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, which will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting. [[The reports referred to above due to large volumes are not recorded in the minutes and are in electronic format in the archive of the Special Permanent Committees Directorate.]] The Standing Committee on Production and Trade also submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy: "Structural measures for access to lignite and for the further opening up of the wholesale electricity market". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK The only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy: "Structural measures for access to lignite and for the further opening up of the wholesale electricity market". The above draft law was characterised by the Government as an urgency and the responsible Standing Committee on Production and Trade accepted by a majority its designation as an urgency, in accordance with Rule 110 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 19 April 2018 to discuss the draft law in two meetings, one on principle, articles, amendments and the whole. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u2	The House therefore agreed. Let us remind you that the lists of speakers are starting from now on, namely the start of the speech by the first rapporteur, Mr Kamaterou, and will be completed at the end of the speech by the second rapporteur, Mr Skreka. The rapporteur for SYRIZA, Mr Kamatos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate in the committee has taken precedence, we have listened to the bodies, and I think that, so far, after a fruitful debate, we can have an equally fruitful debate and any improvements can be made to the bill. Already, the Minister in his last speech told us that he would table legislative improvements. Because we are not all those who were in the committees, let us make it clear that we are discussing access to lignite for individuals and the capacity to produce energy. What did our government find? He had found a law on "little" PPC, which predicted that 22% of its total production potential would be sold, 21.4% of its current lignite potential, 18% of its current natural gas potential and 26.3% of its hydroelectric potential. We cancelled this agreement in 2015 because we considered it incomprehensible, as we canceled the agreement and the law that was made for IPTO and managed and maintained 51% of the control over IPTO. We decided on the access of individuals and the use of lignite to energy production, with a proposal that was made on 1 December 2017 to the European Commission. On 19 January 2018, we submitted a market survey and on 17 April 2018 the Commission decided. What's he been through since? The final ruling of the European Court of Justice, which came out at the end of 2016, took place because it condemned our country for monopoly access of PPC S.A. to lignite. What was it before? Two European Union decisions, which were distorting the access of lignite, in 2009, which imposed measures on us, were preceded by the need and decision to comply, but also to respond to this prerequisite for the agreement, which imposed on us that private individuals should be given access to PPC. We made this choice today as the best possible, because instead of opening new lignite plants to meet the demand for private access to the lignite market and energy production and instead of divesting part of all PPC sectors, we decided through this bill to give private parties access only to the lignite mines that operate. This is how we respond to four obligations - needs. The first is the one I told you about compliance with the court. The second is the Memorandum Requirement, and indeed the evaluation is now. Third obligation is the measures of the European Union which are imposed on us by agreements to reduce pollutants, such as carbon dioxide, in the context of climate change.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u4	I'd beg for a little quiet in the Chamber. You're very welcome. Keep going, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u5	And the fourth and fundamental for us is the policy that we have. Strengthen renewable energy sources and reduce the use of lignite in our country. However, since the use of lignite is too great at the moment, it cannot be done abruptly. It's going to happen gradually. The draft law serves these objectives as follows: Two subsidiaries of PPC are set up. One in the north, in Melite, which includes a mine and the Vivian license and a second in the south of Megalopolis. For them, there will be an international competition by 31 May and in six months the bill provides that it must be completed. And by the end of 2018, PPC is obliged to obtain the permits. This is how PPC, firstly, remains a pillar of the energy market. Secondly, it is harmonized in Community law. Thirdly, they are fully compatible with the strategic planning of PPC and fourthly, as I said before, only lignite plants, while renewable energy, hydroelectric and gas remain intact. The same with the previous agreement and proposal of the rulers were then sold out. PPC maintains 78.6% of its lignite potential, 90.9% of its total capacity and in the medium term by 2026 will have fallen to 68% of lignite energy and in the long term from 35% to 65% since we plan to catch the target. All this has been accepted by the European Commission, contrary to what had been agreed, and it would appear to some people that it was impossible to accept. In committee, we have heard the bodies. We have heard main, universally denial of divestment of any assets of PPC. That's what it means. There is the view, not only in the interests of workers and local authorities, that such productive sectors of goods in which citizens must have universal access regardless of income must not be divested to private individuals, although the previous governments have tried to divert the operation of public enterprises over the years either with the so-called recruitments, or in general with mismanagement through expenditure, grace contracts, etc. Nevertheless, the feeling of all the actors is that these areas should not be divested. That is why our effort is to minimize the access of private individuals to lignite and to meet the obligations I have given you above. In addition to this, we have heard the anxiety of workers as well. Through the bill, they are secured.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u6	Please be quiet. Respect the speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u7	The bill has too many forms of insurance for them, such as that in six years they cannot be fired, that contracts such as contracts are transferred as they are when companies are transferred and many others are transferred. On this we will also hear legislative improvements on the basis of the proposals which have been heard, as well as the concern of local societies about what comes after the post-lining period. And that's where I think the state should go to see the regional development programmes. It is also planned that the end attributed to the local communities, which is about the same as they have so far, will be left with the reduction in lignite production and use. I wanted to conclude with a comment on the attitude of counter-population, but, Mr New Democracy. I was amazed by the insistence I would say - I imagine that today we will have it - of the Opposition in the explanatory memorandum that said that this whole story of access to private individuals helps competition. In fact, with a style, whether stress or appalling, that we - my ears - accede to that philosophy. Don't be afraid, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy. We are not going to steal your programme on privatisation in the way you imagined it and the way you did it and the way you wanted to do it. And we know where the competition you imposed led us. Instead of serving the public interest and serving the citizens at the end, he created monopolies after all. Privatisation has not been able to help competition, such as for example with Olympics - because of time, I will only mention this example - which you have sold and now see the monopoly on airlines and how we are undergoing it, especially the islands. We also see the opening up of shipping to individuals by abolishing the cabotage, which has created a monopoly on shipping and we are also in existence from the islands. And we are not the same, if you want to show with your attitude or insinuate, even if we are forced to take measures within the framework of the agreement, such as those here. Let me remind you, and why we are not the same: because even if we are forced, we are trying to end up having the least possible cost, and that is to the benefit of the public and therefore of the citizens. I will give you one or two examples again: I will mention the port of Piraeus, for which, when we received it and had to give it to individuals, we found an agreement that did nothing but draw a line into a topographical and what was inside the port of Piraeus without calculating tanks, without calculating beaches, without calculating public buildings used by the public services, without even calculating the property of the PPA that was outside port. You've all given this to your previous deal. We have therefore reached a better agreement. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will end in a minute, Mr President. As the best deal was reached at the airport, where you again gave it all away, and we released shores, released space free, reduced construction and all that. And not to say about the port of Thessaloniki. To conclude, I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, as well as to the colleagues in the New Democracy: Look, your competition is this state-owned entrepreneurship, it is offshore companies, it is NOVARTIS, it is credit and fierce, it is the agency of Thessaloniki, which was private and was living with state money. Our competition, no matter how much you want to be identified with us, is the rules and transparency we are trying to put, is the strengthening of small and medium-sized enterprises, it is the redistribution, at the end, of wealth in favour of the weak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr. Cameroon. The rapporteur for the New Democracy, Mr Skreka, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. It is certainly not the first time, ladies and gentlemen, that we in Parliament have been called upon by the Government to discuss a bill which has nothing to do with what was announced and promised by the election. Many times this government in the three years in power is constantly bringing out bills, it keeps bringing legislative provisions, which are completely inconsistent with what they had said and which had promised Greek citizens to take their vote and to rise to power. This case, however, which concerns the sale of PPC's lignite plants, is a special case, ladies and gentlemen. And why is this a special case? Because I think it highlights the size of a truly great political fraud, which has taken place. And why am I saying "political fraud"? Because in this particular case, as I will prove below, Mr. Tsipras when he said what he said before he came to power, was treacherous. He also had knowledge of what he should do next, and yet consciously lied to fool the world, mock the local communities, mock the PPC workers to guard their vote in this dishonest political way. Why am I saying that? He said the previous rapporteur of the Couple that we are forced - he says - to sell the lignite plants because he commits us to an agreement that came after a judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Communities, that is to say, the Court of Justice of the European Communities and because of this decision is bound. But come on, where PPC President Panayotakis himself came to the committee, which discussed the bill yesterday, what did he say in front of all the Members present and the presence of the relevant Minister? He said, Mr Panagiotakis, who reminded me that he was President of PPC and CEO of PPC, a member of PPC, a member of the SYRIZA - ANEL government, but above all was a trade unionist of SYRIZA and President of GENOP - PPC, said Mr Panagiotakis that we knew for the past fifteen years that PPC could not continue this way, that other things that they were talking about in the European Union, that otherwise the European Union imagines the energy map in Europe and simply the previous governments did not do what this government had to do and that it was late to implement exactly what Mr Panagiotakis knew, the trade unionist of SYRIZA, and since the trade unionist of SYRIZA knew, I think the President of SYRIZA, would also know. But that's not all. Go on and he didn't know, he hadn't let him know. Here comes the explanatory statement tabled by the minister presenting what he says? Does it refer only to the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Communities and to the commitment that it unfortunately imposes on Greece? Oh, no. It says that they are selling lignite plants - and I read from the inside - because equal access to all sources of energy is guaranteed in this way. That's what the Minister says. It also goes hand in hand with the European demand for the liberalisation of the electricity market in terms of free competition and not only. It also helps the extroversion of the Greek electricity market and the conditions are created for the participation of more powerful international players in the Greek market. This helps reduce energy prices to the final consumer. So what does the Minister and the Government say to us? They co-sign the explanatory statement more than five - six government ministers. It says that what they do, namely the sale of lignite plants, is good, because it helps free competition and thus lower prices to the consumer. I ask: When is the government telling the Minister the truth? When was it against any attempt to liberalise the energy market or today? Do you know what Mr. Tsipras said, on 22-10-2013, a year and something before taking over the country's rule? He said that investors who come to speculate by buying pieces of Greek property would also lose their money and find themselves accountable to justice. He shared prisons then, Mr. Tsipras, to potential investors. It also announced that it would refer to the justice of the ministers and the policies which would sign these decisions. I am presenting Mr Tsipras' statements at that time. [[At this point the Member, Mr Konstantinos Skrekas, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What else did he say? He was talking about national crime and that PPC's sale should be overturned. I am also making these statements. [[At this point the Member, Mr Konstantinos Skrekas, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What did he say, too? That he'll try to get the public control back to 100% of PPC. That's what he said then. And you see now, ladies and gentlemen of the Chamber of Deputies, what you are coming to vote on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u10	You're overreacting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u11	That is why I give you what he said, the written statements, so that you can remember them again, because unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, you have a short memory.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u12	Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u13	You have a short memory and you vote very easily backwards to what you were saying at the time. Anyway, let's get to the bottom of the bill. This bill the way it comes is good? Does it ensure what is being demanded in our country today? What is the point in the energy sector? The first thing we need to ensure is security of supply. We should not, for example, have power cuts. We all agree on that. What should we also ensure, in accordance with the European acquis and a request? We must ensure that there are transparent conditions of free competition both in production and in marketing. Thirdly, we must ensure that all this results in the drop in electricity prices in households, professionals, farmers, farmers, in the country's production base. The bill brought by the government ensures all this? First of all, let me ask you this and let us all agree on something. Can anyone imagine the country's energy map without a strong, sustainable PPC? Can anyone imagine that we could ensure healthy conditions of free competition with a PPC that is on the verge of bankruptcy, with a PPC that cannot support its production and cannot support its customers, with a PPC that cannot fulfil its obligations? I don't think you can imagine that. But what does the government do with this bill? Here's what he's doing. PPC has three units of very good, very competitive, jewelry, silver. They're the two units in Megalopolis and the one unit in Meliti. These units, ladies and gentlemen, are lignite power plants which have the lowest variable cost. In other words, they are the most competitive units. They are the units that offer the largest profit to PPC. Because they have the lowest variable cost, they are the units, which first contribute to the energy system and are the units that work for most hours. These units are not the only units that are installed, today we are talking about, a desulphurisation system. What does that mean? It means that after 2020 and with the new standards they will still work. These units, the most competitive, the government is selling today. But not just sells them, just like that. Take note of what is being done, what is the unequivocally bias in favour of the candidate future private investor. In these units, which are already competitive, it comes and removes staff, i.e. it reduces their operating costs, which transports it to the rest of PPC, without any interest in what happens to PPC. And not only that, but it does not bear a single euro on debt obligations and leaves all the loans to the large PPC. So the rest of PPC that remains, with more staff, which will have gone from these units, with all the loans, will be called upon to raise the abundance of its operation, as they have become today, sharing more administrative costs with fewer production units, but also with more loans for less productive units. In this way, not only does PPC guarantee its future, but a PPC that has lost 80% of its stock exchange value, which has lost its most expensive asset, IPTO, an asset that the independent valuer valued at 1.2 billion euros, lost 100% of the shares he held as PPC, to get just 300 million net. Big success, this government's only project. And not only that, but PPC from a billion dollars due in the summer of 2014, that is, for forty years PPC had accumulated a billion dollars due, in three years it acquired two additional billion dollars due and thus a billion owed it at the time, now owes it three billion dollars. Huge successes by this government, worthy to celebrate. But that's not all. In Megalopolis PPC will continue to operate its most perfect power plant with gas. This factory has 830 MW installed power. However, since the current government and the units it will sell to the individual - not to speculate on, for another reason, we do not know what the Minister will tell us - are restricting the operation of this plant to about 50% of the capacity to produce electricity. While it can operate up to 830 MW of installed power, it will operate up to 500 MW of installed power. So they're cutting it in the middle. And why are they doing this? Because the Minister says that the previous governments did not improve the interconnection of the Peloponnese with mainland Greece, and that is why it cannot. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] But four years that this government has been running this place have not done anything for this interconnection. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But it's all the previous ones' fault. For four years, the fourth year only rule. People haven't ruled any more. How could they do this in four years' time? Otherwise, PPC managed to destroy it within four years, as they now manage to bring a bill within four months to destroy and what remains of this PPC. So the conclusion is that PPC stays with the remaining lignite units. But listen to the biggest and most tragic crime this bill makes. PPC currently has the complex of the units of Agios Dimitrios, five lignite units, has the complex of the units of Heart, four lignite units that work, two units of Amyntheos, one unit in Meliti, the newest one, which sells, two units in Megalopolis, the most competitive ones that sells them. Of the remaining units that I have mentioned before you, ladies and gentlemen, the only unit that 2020 can operate is one of the Saint Dimitrios complex, because it is the only unit for which the competitive purchasing process and the installation of a desulphurisation system have gone ahead. For the units of the heart PPC has decided to shut them down. It has therefore gone into operation seventeen thousand hours that will go out in 2019 and then close. The same so far applies to Ammonium. We don't know what he's gonna do from here. For Agios Dimitrios, for the four of the five units PPC and the government have done nothing for three years now - it spends the fourth year - so that it can go ahead with the installation of a desulphurisation system, which means that in 2020, which changes the specifications, these units will not be able to operate. So we really ought to congratulate this government that shortened PPC by 80%, according to its stock exchange value, which tripled the due amount that its customers owe today and which comes today and condemns it to work after 2020 with just one unit of more than fourteen units that it has today. And in this way, the government believes that PPC will be viable and that it will do its job and that it will ensure the jobs of its employees and that it will provide services to the Greek energy economy to feed the country's productive base. Ladies and gentlemen, there have been a lot of bad things from this government in this place, too many bad things that each citizen sees today in his pocket and in his daily life. But by carrying out a catastrophic plan, which even the most ill mind could not imagine, against PPC, the energy stability of the country and against Greek citizens, one could not be beyond that government, which at any stage of this catastrophic project celebrates the destruction it is accomplishing. And, of course, it conveys the problem to the next ones without any interest in what is to come. We will have the opportunity to say too much in our dentistry. We do not support this plan, which is once again a proof of what evil this government can do in that country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u14	The reason is the special speaker of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr. George Arvanitides.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there has already been a lot of talk in the committee on the state or private nature of PPC. Of course, we have reached 2018 to still speak in terms of the past decades, or at least that's how they want some to be placed. For our part, I have made it clear that the role of a modern state is purely regulatory. The state sets the rules, private individuals come under the supervision of independent authorities and the law to function, and this conception must produce results for the benefit of the citizens. Every measure and every policy must aim to secure the secure provision of energy and to improve the services we provide to citizens, how, in other words, households, businesses, industry, farmers will have lower electricity prices, how we deal with energy poverty, how we will increase productivity, how everyone will be free to choose a provider and compare tariffs and services, but also how we ensure the energy that the country needs. All this, of course, is determined by the European framework and our involvement in the European Union, the 2030 objectives and the energy union that must come about, and by national priorities that we must set as a country. And the national priorities that Greece needs to put in the energy sector are investment in networks and renewable energy sources, not gifts and games with lignite units. However, all these, ladies and gentlemen, are defined by the technological developments of our time. These technological developments also dictate decentralised energy production, enhancement of renewable energy sources, savings and smart energy management. Portugal, ladies and gentlemen, has managed to produce a monthly net energy output in March that exceeded demand and is aimed at the same country in a neutral carbon balance by 2050. Portugal, a country with which we can compare directly, not Ireland or Denmark. And here we are once again running with the government, which is unduly delaying three years, to bring the bill for sale of PPC's lignite plants to Meliti and Megalopolis to Parliament. I told you in committee it was a bad bill, Minister. In addition to the pressure you have, if any other moment were to happen, you had to take it back, rewrite it and form a credible and sustainable solution for PPC. Truly, how proud can one be when in a nine-article bill it is necessary to record 11 times that these provisions will be applied by way of derogation from any other general or special provision of law? And that one of those who wanted to be hired to be the guarantors of every word of the Constitution. The report on the impact of the bill is incomplete, while the explanatory statement is a simple descriptive report, without any substantiating reasons for the government's choice to sell only lignite units. And this choice by the government is presented as an alternative proposal for reform and reorganisation of PPC in relation to the project - this demonised project - of the "little" PPC, as a huge success that emerged after extremely painful negotiation. The responsibility of these choices, Mr Minister, but also of those that are happening, will be your sole responsibility. Fast track procedure for depositing and voting the bill as an emergency, fast track process for selling and disinvesting PPC's lignite potential in suffocating timetables. I hope that you will be able, Minister, to respond to the timetables you have set and, if they are not met, what will be the alternative scenario here, what will we do next. In fact, there is no precise example of deinvesting an energy company in the European Union by selling lignite plants. The Czech Republic, which is mentioned in the report, is not exactly the same example. I asked you directly at the meetings of the committees, Minister, what scenarios you have examined, you rejected them as unreliable, and you have come up with so much concern about the implementation of this scenario. You may conquer and demonize PPC's "small" project, but it was an attempt to reach an overall approach to the issue and brought investment and necessary funds to PPC at that time, as planned. With your bill, there is no provision for the necessary investments. On the contrary, with this project of "little" PPC that had been submitted and voted, the price that PPC would have received would have been committed for the investment needs of the company, especially those related to the replacement and environmental upgrading of existing lignite plants of old technology, which is of interest to the areas that have already paid a high environmental price with their quality of life and the choices of so many years. Workers were also better assured, and now there are gray areas in their rights and selection procedures. There is no record of the exact number of those transferred to the new companies, as foreseen in the PPC's small' project. With our plan, the Committee on the Production and Trade of the Parliament would be informed and make comments and suggestions within 30 days on the draft notice of invitation to tender and would be informed of the outcome of the tender before signing with the preferred investor. Now vote, sign, you're done! They are extremely important democratic procedures that really respect the consultation and reflection that is being developed in the House! Ladies and gentlemen, in the era of smart energy networks, new energy storage and management technologies, renewable energy sources, which we have not yet exploited in all their forms, and we have the potential - and I quote, wave energy, geothermality - we are looking at how to redistribute lignite. None of us deserve this miserable situation, neither in the country nor in the citizens nor in PPC, which, in spite of all the problems, has had such a big offer over the years in the Greek economy. I repeat that two are the major national priorities, which we must bear in mind in the context that defines and incorporate each of our energy actions. First, upgrading and expansion of networks, internal interconnection and external interconnection, internal interconnection of islands and regions, such as Crete, the islands and the Peloponnese with western Greece. There is a involvement and a delay in the cable that unites these two critical areas and would liberate the RES projects and perhaps we did not have to go ahead with network security in the limitation set out in Article 5 of this draft law. In addition, external interconnection with other countries, pipelines and key energy connections will enhance the country's geopolitical position. And there are the RES, with accelerating permits, with small producers, with new investment plans. We can, ladies and gentlemen, become energy superpower in RES without in the future need for any nuclear power plant, as it builds or chooses to build the neighbouring country. And it is a matter that must be of particular concern to us. These two major national priorities need a strong PPC to implement them. And this bill does not lead to a strong PPC. Networks, new networks and more renewable energy sources are and should be and should be the permanent incubator of who handles energy issues. Greece must, perhaps, be the most important option of becoming an energy hub. Minister, that is where we must aim for every effort and every measure of energy policy. In these areas, all public funds must be directed and all private funds we can attract. Unfortunately, however, this is neither the case nor it is something that your bill promotes, and that is why we are voting against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u16	The reason is the special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Shahinides.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. I see great stress among the rapporteurs of the Coupling and Officerial Response. Those who are apologise for why they are forced to sell out key pillars of our economy and for the fact that there is nothing left to sell. All we didn't hear is promises to fill these gaps with nuclear power plants with Putin. Today we are called on to discuss and decide on the major energy issue, namely the lignite deposits, the Melite 1 lignite stations, the permit to build the "Meliti 2" unit and the "Megalopolis 3" lignite stations and "Megalopolis 4". Allow mines accompanying these plants, all their equipment up to and including vehicles and all the buildings and areas installed by the stations. The plants you sell under this draft law have a system of desulphurisation, which means they are also less polluting. You keep the polluting lignite plants, which will not enter the system, and only lignite from lignite production will now be in the system of private lignite. Here I would like to point out that the lignite plants you will keep are also the ones that will take their operating time in 2020. In the context of this bill, therefore, you continue the tactics of dismantling and destroying our national economy and enslaving the country's enslavement to foreign centres. Soon you again and again succumb to the orders of your bosses, completely contradicting your election announcements and assigning, like your predecessors, our national sovereignty by selling a piece of all the neural sectors of our country's economy. The structural measures, which I would say as hard to accept, provide, however oxime, for the disinvestment with an investment in the assets and activities of the already fragmented and largely sold-out PPC S.A... The structural measures are being imposed on us by means of'so I want' directives from the European Commission, and it seems to remind us of a relationship between the boss and the slave. Or as I have mentioned before, if the European Union is considered a family and we are a member of this family, we are inherited from domestic violence. So the draft law we are discussing is unacceptable, it is disastrous, it is solvent for PPC, for the energy planning of the country, for the local communities, for the workers, and, I would say, provocatively favourable to the state-owned airfields in the field of energy. The provisions of this Legislation indicate the aim of the Ministry of Environment and Energy to give incentives and gifts to attract investors to lignite plants. The procedures and options you have made lead to the sale of the plants and mines at an unacceptable price. You assign the use of land that had previously been expropriated from PPC and actually pass into the hands of buyers. Minister, the term 'exemptions from legislation' is mentioned fifteen times in order to speed up procedures for obtaining the permits and other obligations required. Of course, derogations to existing laws do not give us any impression at all. Here have you deviated from the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and the Constitution of Greece? Would you have reservations about some laws? So in this respect, with Article 1, which refers to the break-up and contribution of two lignite branches of PPC to two new companies, the question arises here: to PPC, Minister, what exactly will remain? From the price that will arise either some of the public debt will be covered or other interests will be served. The only thing for sure is that the consequences that will be, unfortunately, will be painful for the Greeks. The entry of private individuals into the electricity market through the acquisition of ownership rights to the electricity production infrastructure will also significantly affect the terms and percentage of lignite in the domestic energy mix but also the cost of lignite, as we will now only talk about the private economy rules. With regard to Article 4, which refers to the working relations between workers in both sectors, with a first reading, one could easily be deceived, thinking that workers are guaranteed. But, of course, that is not the case. In the past six years, the company will be able to fire them and there will be absolutely no restrictions on their energy. Those who are engaged in service units, which are disconnected or are not contributed on the break-off date, will either be transferred to other PPC units or moved to other PPC subsidiaries or will be part of a voluntary output programme. According to information, this concerns the staff of the AIA of Kardia and Amyntai and the power station of the islands where connections are made for the Cyclades and Crete. In order to make the sale attractive and profitable, however, you are making a significant reduction in jobs and in any reduction in jobs that the private sector would have made. The cost of this option will be borne by PPC in advance, without the investors entrusting the necessary funds to reduce the staff they would like. Candidates will therefore have lower labour costs, since today's jobs are not guaranteed and the working rights of all today's workers are nowhere guaranteed. In conclusion, I shall refer to Article 7, which relates to the special fee for lignite research and exploitation rights. The industrial power-generating areas of lignite-fired power-generating plants are abolished and replaced by the new special fee of EUR 1,20 per megawatts produced from lignite. The revenue, resulting from its collection, is assumed - and I say'supposed' - will be used in infrastructure, development and environmental protection and in the relocation of settlements of the Arcadia, Kozani and Florina districts. Here we should point out that the lignite was on the turbulence that PPC made from lignite, natural gas, hydropower plants and renewable energy sources. By order of the end of EUR 1,20 per megawatt produced from lignite, the contribution to lignite is limited only, which, unfortunately, will bear a heavy burden on its competitiveness vis-à-vis other fuels. As a result, fewer resources will come to local government, despite your Ministry's assurances that this change will not affect the revenues and local communities that are environmentally burdened by the operation of these units. And of course, nowhere can you ensure that the revenue generated is channelled to local communities and not used for other reasons, as I have said, for example, for our loan obligations. The effects of the sale of the units and the privatisation of PPC are therefore obvious. Consumers will be deprived of a social asset and our country will be a key pillar of development. The current will soon be a very expensive product for the many and a speculation tool for the few. We, as Golden Dawn, will continue to resist this prospect of a waste of energy, which we have in abundance, and we will once again emphasise that the energy sector must be under full national control. In particular, electricity and the provision of the basic energy needs of our people, of course, and should not be a commercial product, but a social and at the same time a national good. We insist on our basic political positions, which express the interest of the Greek nation alone: Medicines, food, military equipment and energy need a nation to be able to survive in the modern jungle of geopolitical conflicts. And you, with the disastrous work you do, deprive all four basic elements of the Greeks. Clearly we will vote against both at first and on the articles of this disgraceful piece of legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u18	The special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Vardalis, has the floor. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. In our opinion, this bill takes another step along the paths taken by the former governments of the New Democracy and PASOK in the implementation of a premeditated crime. Another decisive step is taking towards liberalising the domestic electricity market by selling lignite plants to which the SYRIZA - ANEL Government is progressing by implementing the European Union's energy policy in full. It is an energy policy that aims to ensure a profitable way out of accumulated funds and to ensure a competitive environment for them. However, the liberalisation of the energy market cannot take place without a shrinking of PPC, without creating a favourable environment, for business groups to act both in the production and in the transport and distribution of electricity. And we are talking about the energy sector, which is a sector of strategic importance to the economy. We are talking about an area that is at the core of competition between strong monopolies, both domestic and foreign, European, American and others. This new step, namely, the sale of lignite plants, takes place at a time when the competition of the imperialist and monopolistic groups in the wider region is exacerbated, of course, by attempting to control the energy sources and the transport routes of these sources of energy. These competitions also play an active part in our country's bourgeoisie, in order to secure its own interests. And this bill serves in the best way the plans for the conversion of our country into an energy hub. But these designs involve our country even more in these imperialist competitions that I have mentioned that only bad for the people can bear. The same policy of serving precisely these urban order plans have been followed for years by the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK. The government today claims that with its policy it cancels these plans from the previous governments. It would be a good thing if you did not underestimate the people's intelligence, claiming a prize of political deception. Because you may indeed cancel the New Democracy plan and put your own plan in place, but also the previous plan and yours do not cancel the European Union's overall plan. They do not cancel the designs of the urban class of domestic and foreign entrepreneurial groups active in the energy sector. That is why the business groups, the European Union, despite the differences between the two projects, did not have any objections to both. You are fighting each other for the rhythms, and you are fighting for the ways in which the policy of the ruling order and the European Union will be implemented at the expense of the people. That's what this is about. Of course, there are differences between the two projects. However, in no case do these differences affect the negative effects that this strategic choice will have, namely, the liberalisation of the energy market. You are trying to convince the people what form of privatization PPC has to choose. What privatisation is the best? The ‘small’ PPC of the previous or the sale of lignite plants implemented by the current government of SYRIZA - ANEL? You have them choose the least evil. In both cases, however, those who pay expensive electricity will be the people's families. This liberalisation of the electricity market will lead to new additional increases in electricity tariffs and will make it even more difficult for thousands of popular households to access electricity. It will lead to redundancies and worsening working conditions for workers in the industry and the only ones, but the only ones who are benefiting will be investors - with or without import - which will ensure cheap electricity production and even greater profits. The inhabitants of the areas with relatively cheaper heating - I am thinking mainly of western Macedonia - will see prices rising, either because of fuel change or because of the private provider. So this is the smallest evil that awaits us with your own plan. And when things get difficult, then mock starts. You know, this policy is not ours, it is imposed on us. We are selling because there are commitments, there is the decision of the European Court of Justice. That's what you're saying. But know that both the attempt at political deception and the mocking of the people also have these limits. First of all, what does the judgment of the Court of Justice say? You say this yourself in the explanatory statement that everyone must have access to all sources of energy in terms of free competition. And we ask: does SYRIZA have another view? Does he agree or disagree with free competition? Do you or do you not agree with the liberalisation of the energy market, which is a key axis of the European Union's energy policy? But you don't stop here. You support the explanatory statement here - and so I imagine that you agree with what you yourself are writing - that attracting investors will bring down the price to the final consumer of electricity. That's what you're saying. Why don't you tell the workers and the people from the 1990s, when the liberalisation of the energy market began, what was the course of tariffs? Why are you not saying that all these years, domestic tariff increases have been translated into current price reductions for the large energy-intensive industries in order to become competitive? That is what you and the previous ones have been supporting for years. There were lost and won by liberation and as much as you're trying, you won't be able to hide this reality. Besides, now you cannot claim that you do not know. Since the 1990s, as I said before, the PASOK and our New Democracy have assured us since that capitalist investment in energy would bring growth to the benefit of everyone, that competition will benefit the people, that thousands of jobs will be created. They claimed - to remind you - that green growth, a shift in renewable energy sources will lead to the protection of the environment and the enhancement of our lives. In practice, however, other things have happened. Production was dramatically reduced by lignite. Workers were fired, unemployment increased, contractors entered, we have unpaid workers. Indeed, there has been a growth in productivity over the years and a growth in profits of business groups. This development, however, was based on the resurrected sacrifices of workers and people's strata. At the same time, electricity tariffs and so-called 'green' charges increased, which the relevant government taxes, which entered households, increased by 149%. Now why would there be reductions? Why now is the SYRIZA - ANEL Government pushing it forward? After all, the same has happened in all the countries of the European Union, where market liberalisation has gone ahead. Countries such as Denmark, Sweden, Ireland and Britain experienced increases in domestic consumption tariffs greater than 100%. According to EUROSTAT figures, three out of ten Greeks are unable to access heating systems today, in 2018! All of you, the government and the previous ones, the New Democracy, the Democratic Alliance, who have created and exacerbated the problem of energy poverty with this very policy of liberation, now, without disgrace in fact, are saying that you will be dealing with it! Here we have arrived, increased energy production and at the same time the people's families do not have electricity and heating! The responsibility of SYRIZA - ANEL Government is also separate in this matter. Why? For all these years and when he was in the opposition, he systematically cultivated the illusion that there could be pluralist management in this context of liberalisation of energy. Because it has shown and shown the anti-grassroots measures only as a result of the memorials of the old civilian staff, sculpting the real opponent and hiding that liberation is a strategic policy of the European Union and has started since the 1990s. So leave the excuses aside. You agree with the European Union, you agree with the liberalisation of the energy market. You are now selling four power plants - three plants, plus one license. That's the reality of yours. You are talking about protecting workers' rights, workers' and wages, provided, of course, a collective agreement is signed. The workers who are listening to us, in our view, should keep one thing. The profitability of PPC and other investors will be based mainly on the abstracts of their rights. The great talk of protecting workers' rights is unsuccessful. And here there's a huge experience. PPC workers in 1994 were more than thirty - eight thousand, with full - work relationships. Half the people left today. And those who stayed experienced continuous reductions in their wages. Young people are recruited with black flexible working relationships, with fewer months of contracts and, indeed, with subcontractors, with the imposition of individual contracts of employment. The employer's attack will be intensified by the workers, whether they go to the private or stay in PPC. Why? Because their competition for a greater part of the electricity market and hence greater profits will impose a reduction in labour costs, will bring job losses, wage cuts and, ultimately, a deterioration in labour relations. The experience has so far said that even if there is a 'little protection' of workers, this will be a long time and, of course, with very negative employment relationships, that is to say, with the relationships that exist today - those which are still in force today - and which will become even worse. Several speeches have been made on the special resource for the two regions of the Peloponnese and Western Macedonia, on the amount, the method of calculation and how it will be exploited. They are 'barerocks to the natives', because even if they are to ensure the level of the resource they have had up to now, this will be passed on to consumers. Article 7(1) states that ‘the upper charge is recovered from lignite plants by means of a related charge added to the surcharges on the wholesale electricity market’. And the following: 'This is done for the sake of ensuring competitiveness'. It is on page 7 of the explanatory statement. No, that would be paid by business groups that would buy the units from the profits they would make. And this on the back of the people's family will be loaded. Ladies and gentlemen, the 'no' of the Communist Party of Greece in the privatisation of lignite plants, the liberalisation of the energy market is absolute, concrete and clear. Energy is a social commodity and not a commodity. So no delivery of lignite, hydroelectric and steam power plants to private groups. Cancel all laws on the liberalisation of the electricity market. What is realistic today is that there should be a reduction in the tariffs for workers' homes and for poor farmers, no interruption in the supply of people's homes, no dismantling of the few-month contracts, stable working - thirty-five hours, five hours, eight hours - the relocations of settlements and the restoration and return to the people of the area of the area which has ended the extraction of lignite. Finally, design that serves the popular needs and at the same time the Groups' profits simply do not exist. The basis of the political proposal of the Communist Party of Greece is the energy planning of our country to serve labour, people's needs. This requires only a single state energy operator, which will be a social property. That is what is needed and necessary today for the country's energy development. On the basis of this criterion, namely the fulfilment of people's needs, of energy being cheap and of exploiting all domestic energy sources. Because if you do not have social property - that is, all this production is designed centrally with other power, with the worker, the people really in power and can interfere with these issues of planning - there cannot be a philosophical solution. It is clear, therefore, that we are voting against the draft law in principle and on the articles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr. Vardalis. Ladies and gentlemen, because Mrs Gerovas and Mr Toskas are here to support amendments, I would like us to agree on something. After Mr. Lazarides, would the other two special speakers allow us to give them the floor or wait? The ministers did not raise a question. The Bureau is asking us to come to an agreement. And I am referring to you, Mr. Amyras, but also to Mr. Saridis, who is next to you to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u21	Of course they will, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u22	Good. After Mr Lazarides, then, we will give them the floor to support the amendments. The reason is the special speaker from the Independent Greeks Mr Lazarides.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Before I go to my comments on the bill, I would like to make a comment on a phrase that my colleague used in his speech from the Opposition. He talked about PPC bankruptcy. It is a phrase in which no one really knows whether to laugh or cry when he hears the opposition to use it. Because, as you know, the Vice-President of the Anti-Population Officer had said in the past that Greece was bankrupt by the two parties, namely PASOK and New Democracy. So what should one go bankrupt? This government is trying to raise the country. Where she was kneeled, where the two parties brought her, she tries to rectify her. And you know, this phrase wasn't said by any random MP or party official. It was said by the "supervisor of the vessel" of the New Democracy. The second one in class, the Vice President of your party. I am sorry to say this because I really did hear that phrase, and I wanted to comment on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u24	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Boat!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u25	Oh, no. Boat! It used to be fresh. Now it's a simple boat.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u26	Please don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u27	You see, climate is positive, Mr President. This debate on the use of lignite becomes a part of the country's commitments to the fourth evaluation and conclusion of the agreement with the institutions. Furthermore, our country is in line with the requirements of the European Union and the European Courts, which force us to open up the lignite market to individuals, at a rate of 40%. These are irreversible decisions binding the Greek Government and obliging it to regulate lignite production issues. The draft law, therefore, is an attempt to address PPC's monopoly access to lignite, for which we are being asked by our partners, and it is therefore the 'urgent' to complete this process within a short period of time. What we need to ensure is a smooth transition to the new operating framework. PPC will remain the pillar of the energy market under the new institutional environment, which will be fully in line with Community law. The interventions to be made in implementation of the judgment of the European Court of Justice are fully compatible with the company's strategic plan, contrary to the previous government's ‘small’ plans. Historic is known. You see, there were commitments from previous governments with the lenders to divest a piece of PPC, while today PPC's production base remains intact. The only exception is the part of the lignite plants, which in any case will have to be gradually deinvested for the year 2030. The success is undeniable that hydroelectric plants or the best efficiency units are not sold through this process and the profitability base for PPC. The public character of IPTO has been maintained. It is not for the natural gas units to be sold with a prominence of 'Megalopolis 5', an extremely efficient unit. It remains the "Agios Dimitrios", where it increases the competitiveness of all its units and "Ptolemais 5", which will be the flagship of the system in two years' time. In short, the commitment of the previous governments to limit it to the two units of Megalopolis and Melitis in an effort to improve the conditions in favour of the public interest. But the issues that have dealt with rightly and strongly are the work and the development part. The migrant workers should be governed by the regulation on PPC's collective agreements, as without safeguarding the human resources of the deinvestment units we cannot talk about a fair process. Positive that we are committing the agreement on the absolute safeguarding of industrial relations for the period of six years, during which redundancies by companies are forbidden, but a solution must also be found for the period after six years. The essential elements to be ensured are the reciprocity of local communities. The contribution provided for in the special fee bill is deemed to be unsatisfactory and the margins need to be exhausted and a fee which, together with profitability, will bring to local communities maximum for the proper restoration of the territories which will allow the safe development of the primary sector of the regions affected. In particular, it is necessary to ensure the continuity of the district's district's district's district's district's district's district heating project. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a change in the energy sector throughout Europe, a transition from monopoly access to energy to healthy competition and a shift in renewable energy sources. This change is extremely critical for electricity generation and for the national economy, but our country has a comparative advantage and great margins of energy security and profit in these areas. Ladies and gentlemen, PPC's contribution to the country's productive reconstruction is not questioned. It is huge and we are obliged to ensure its proper functioning, which is achieved. Inappropriate political actions are characterised by another period and unfortunately have a heavy impact on the smooth and efficient functioning of public enterprises and organisations even today. The infiltration of organised interests in the public sector, public enterprises and organisations in particular, is a characteristic of others and every attempt to get away from the charges will find us against them. We reiterate that the draft law under discussion is the attempt to address PPC's monopoly access to lignite, for which our partners are incurring us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr. Lazarides. Mr Saridis, if I remember correctly, you were not in the Chamber at the time I asked the last two special speakers to propose the ministers, Mrs Gerovalis and Mr Toska, to support the amendments and then to put them in place. But if you wish, you can take the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u29	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u30	So we agree. Mr Toskas has the floor to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Saridis and Amyras for the concession of the order of speech. This is the amendment with a general number of 1560 and a special 184. This amendment refers to the issue of seasonal fire extinguishers. As you know, since 2003, in parallel with the other firefighters - permanent, five years of obligation - a number of seasonal fireworks were hired - around the thousands of five hundred, that is, so many of them said the law, but usually fewer - for some months to support, help the work of the rest of the firefighters. This is a practice which, of course, applies in other countries. The law provided for the use of this staff of seasonal fire extinguishers for 15 years, i.e. until 2017. From there on, then, we have been renewing the use of these seasonal fire extinguishers for two more years. These firefighters have the experience of so many years, they also have the equipment - if you like - already in their hands, so they are ready to provide their services in the coming anti-nuclear period and that is why - as I said - we are renewing for two years. From that point on, the well-known open competitive procedures must be followed in order to recruit staff to meet the needs of the two years. We are therefore extending this period for the two years, as I said before. I think that the reason is obvious, the needs are obvious, and indeed because climate conditions, unfortunately, are getting worse every year worldwide, the duration of this use of these people is six months. I therefore ask you to vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u32	Good. Thank you, Mr. Toska. Mrs. Gerovali, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u33	It is the amendment with a general number of 1558 and a specialist of 182. Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment concerns the modernisation of the evaluation procedure for civil servants, which will henceforth be done electronically. We had announced that, in particular, we had informed the services and in circulars that the evaluation will be done electronically and will be based on the same law, i.e. with rules of democracy, transparency, without quotas and without penalising them. As you can see, it is incomprehensible in the digital era that we are going through, that the public moves through anachronistic processes, changes of papers, forms of papers, etc., many protocols, which create a great administrative burden. So the tools are offered, the digital age is here, in order finally to change the processes within the administration, and of course the great goal is to change the relationship between public and Greek citizens. So we will save working hours, money, of course we will modernise administrative practice, but we will also reduce a heavy bureaucratic process. The platform of this mobility is ready to go into operation in a few days. This amendment institutionalises the whole evaluation process and the necessary updates are made to the law, so that it says 'paper' to abolish it and pass into the electronic form. It concerns all those liable, namely evaluators and evaluators, for a perimeter of about thirty-thirty thousand civil servants. This special platform will give staff addresses as well as each individual employee the right to access as a certified user, so that each employee can complete the form of the assessor, as well as the form of the assessor 1 and 2 respectively. The evaluation and evaluation reports will automatically be submitted to the system, which will be promoted at the next link of the chain. The process and modernise and automate so that it is ultimately inconsistent with everyone else. This platform - because I think it is important to say it and listen to it - is a model of interoperability of public systems, because this platform is integrated and exploited by the census system and the Greek public human resources register. So at a very small cost, but with a great deal of trouble on the part of the services, this has become a reality today. You know, too, that the biggest issue in public systems is digital systems that do not communicate. The new systems that we set up, "walk" in everything we have and communicate fully with each other and thus exploit the contents of each platform. Electronic evaluation is therefore an innovative action. It is a guarantee of transparency and contributes substantially to the modernisation of public administration. There will then be explanations with a clearing circular in order to prepare all the public sector, because there is a need for information, a preparation. Today a preparatory circular was published, which is exactly beginning to introduce into this new system and the human potential of the public sector. Once the system is tested and public officials are informed, this system will automatically enter into operation, which we estimate will take place some days from today. So we are pleased to adopt this new electronic tool today. I imagine he'll have the agreement of all of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Minister. Mr Saridis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u35	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I accept for the sake of the debate that being optimistic either by nature or by conscious choice is generally a good thing and a good thing. I also understand the importance for the stability of the government in question, in all ways, of expressing its optimism, in order not to worry about citizens, to be patient, but, above all, not to complain. Government optimism also serves another more important purpose, convinced of the existence of a plan. If, ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister of the country is present, that means either he does not have confidence in the plan implemented by his government or that this does not work, he does not deliver what is expected, or - even worse - that there is not even a plan, that there is no strategic planning. Who would like to hear the Prime Minister of a country say to him: 'Look at seeing, things are black and they will become even more black in the future'? Who would support a pessimistic government? Ladies and gentlemen, we all know it in this Chamber. No one would support such a government. So if we really accept these conclusions, then we understand why not only does the government, the current government, but no government anywhere in the world, but also any government anywhere else in the world show that there is not only a plan, and it seems to be light on the edge of the tunnel, and that it is a matter of time to get there. It only takes a little patience to do. It takes a little more effort than the citizens and nothing but this. Optimism is therefore an essential element for every government account, as is the case for the same reasons, pessimism is essential for the opposition. What citizen who is disappointed by his government would he choose to support an optimistic opposition? Can a chief of officer's opposition come out and say everything's going well in this country and don't worry about anything? Who would believe it? Here, indeed, in our country, if this was the case, then many would have taken it as a sign, so that they could finally decide to emigrate with the others. Ladies and gentlemen, the need for the government to look optimistic and the pessimistic, respectively, explains the narratives of one about the clean exit and the other about the country's destruction. But it does not explain why we have all reached the point of this need. The reason why the government's stability and inefficiency in the argument of opposition are now exclusively judged on a communication level is one. There's no plan to be judged on it. It cannot be implemented either by each other or by each other. You are all obliged to implement the plan of two hundred fifty Members voted in favour in August 2015. So there's no Greek plan, so you keep it a secret both of us and of you. The government has learned that it has revealed its own plan to industrialists today. When will he reveal it to the citizens? Did they, too, have no right to do this project? Doesn't it include them? On the other hand, the Civic Opposition seems to only abroad feels safe enough to talk about its proposals. Why don't you tell them inside the country? In all these questions, the answer is the same. There is no Greek plan, there is only the memorandum and the hundreds of laws that have come to stay. In Greece we have been counting for years and will be counting until 2099. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greeks are not interested in optimistic narratives or pessimistic thrillers. Greeks require pragmatism, pragmatism, demand responsibility, demand honesty. They expect to hear, how the famous development will finally come and know that in order for this growth to come first, the confidence, market confidence in the Greek economy, creditors' confidence in the Greek state, Europe's confidence in Greece must be restored. They also know that in order to do all this, Greeks' confidence in their elected representatives must first be restored. And how will Greek citizens have confidence in their representatives, with the populism of SYRIZA to be vigilant, calling on citizens every day not to pay the bills of electricity, not to mention the evil that would come? Today the unpaid accounts have been close to 3 billion and for the lack of payments for three years. Since 2015 when they became a government, we are gradually seeing the authorities responsible for deceiving, shrinking - 'disinvestment' has baptized it - increasingly the size of PPC, preparing the European Union's directives, and doing so in the worst possible way for the company and at the expense of national energy policy. Even at this time of the memorials, bans and denials we found a way - we managed this too - and in 2016 some people entered, five hundred and sixty-six permanent staff in PPC. On the other hand, on the other hand, PPC was at the forefront of both the New Democracy and PASOK, who placed party but pointless administrations, appointed the Ruspheological thousands of their followers and effectively allowed their various trade unionists to co-govern undisturbed. Never any Minister of these two parties saw PPC as the most important development lever in the country, but simply as a rally shop. The end of easy and free access to lignite was approaching, but all they did then was make PPC Europe's worst infection. When the former EMCDDA was not decided to be collected through PPC, then the hit was decisive. The responsibilities are given and enormous for all three largest parties, and it is certainly too late for crocodile tears. Impressively, the fact that both the government and the PPC administration have forged indifferently in the face of the two most serious problems facing the company today, namely the EUR 3 billion outstanding accounts, and the inability to repay the loans that PPC itself has received. As for the voluntary exit programme provided for in Article 4 of PPC employees, no information is provided at all or the company has announced anything specific about its terms or the total amount of millions required, so it is reasonable for every good-fashioned person to imagine any number he wants. If you ask us why we do not agree, since we are the eminent party in favour of consensus, we will simply answer that the Centro Association is in favour of consensus in order to save the country and not of consensus in order to dissolve an hour earlier. In view of the major difficulties and high unemployment in these regions, jobs must be guaranteed clearly. However, those who do not meet the positions of the two new companies, because they will actually be voting on this bill tomorrow, should or should remain in PPC following a study specifically identifying the real needs of the limited PPC, or should be applied for them, without over-generating voluntary programmes, with money that we do not know where to find. We must therefore be very careful about voluntary exits. For years now the Central Association has insisted on saying that one of the preconditions for creating a modern state is the immediate implementation of a credible programme, an assessment of the managers, the high-ranking executives and even the public and wider public sector employees, and obviously should have done that for PPC a long time ago. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are selling out what is best for PPC. That is the reality and we do it in a way that does not guarantee the public interest, we do it roughly, we do it unprojected, we do it, because perhaps you all voted together in August 2015. There is nothing else to tell the Greek citizens about the so-called bill we are discussing. That's not a bill. It's a sale. And that is precisely why the distance is increasing today, which we should go as Greeks to return development. Another barbaric is now added to our economy with the responsibility of all Greek governments and oppositions over the last thirty years. Ladies and gentlemen, one question remains to be answered, a question to be answered today by the government. All the other things have been said in this House both in everyday life and in the committees and today and tomorrow. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, are you voting in favour of this sale because you are blackmailing or because it is good in your view for the country? Today the people you vote do it with the gun to the head or do it because you want it? That's what you can answer. All the rest we know. The Centro Association will vote against the bill, will vote against all its articles, and we will also be placed in our second language, since time has not arrived today, to talk about the other articles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u36	The special speaker from the river Mr. Amyras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, some sixty-five years after PPC was set up, it comes to the House of Law, which provides for the privatisation or, better, the divestment of PPC's "bilets", the most productive units of lignite fields, a wealth that is extremely difficult to cost. The law is being promoted through express procedures, which show intent, to hide a great, national issue from the people and all the Members of Parliament. It is an economic and national crime to divest and ultimately to dismantle PPC. Do you agree, Mr. Statakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u38	When are you talking? Let me tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u39	I am talking about what Mr Tsipras said just three years ago about PPC.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u40	I couldn't agree more. I'll tell you in my speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u41	You're totally in agreement. Once again, let us inform the investors, as you described them, Mr. Tsipras, that is to say, the new 'black marketers' of modern times, Mr. Stathakis, do not plan far away. It is Mr. Stathakis here who will not allow them to salt PPC, the public wealth! "The national, strategically important businesses will take them back, we will give them to the Greek people, because they belong there". That's what Mr. Tsipras said just three years ago. And Mr. Spirtzis, President of the TEI, of the Technical Chamber of Commerce, said: "The country's productive reconstruction is on hold. A peculiar oligarchy shall be installed." And I would like to know from the dear Ministers of the SYRIZA Government - ANLE who are these 'black marketers', 'heatfishes' of the oligarchy that will be fruited with PPC, according to what you yourself said three years ago and today you are doing exactly the opposite. I will also submit a few headlines of the newspaper 'World'. "They're selling PPC with the piece. We will not recognize the sale." This was on March 11, 2014. In July 2014 the newspaper wrote in its headline: "The Movement for PPC. Wall in government plans for selling the "little" PPC. "They turn off the lights in Maximos," said SYRIZA's official newspaper on another front page. As you can see, Mr Stathakis, your government is a hostage of the archive and hostage of reason, reality, of life. What you were blaming as a national salesman for up to three years ago, you are currently bringing them under your own law. The rapporteur says to you: 'We are doing this not because we want it, but because we are pressing on from Europe'. Where's your national, proud negotiation? Nowhere can you say 'no'? The draft law we are debating now comes under urgent procedure without prior consultation. The price is undetermined, investors are unknown to divest lignite deposits without costing. I was, I would say, consistent in my view that we should have costing data. She doesn't know what she's selling, how do her units cost? And we have divestment of lignite plants at an unfavourable juncture for fossil fuels. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law on PPC is not a plan. This sale is not part of any broader overall management and phase-in strategy from lignite. A country found by air, by waves, by sun, by geothermality, is still attached to the tank of lignite, as if we were in 1830 in the wild West! The sale of lignite plants is not a solution to our problem. It recommends another postponement to PPC's urgent problems and is not the purpose of selling lignite units, as PPC has three fundamental objectives: Firstly, the reduction of its market share in the commercial sector in order to transform the energy market in line with European standards. The gradual rehabilitation of lignite production, which I, unfortunately, do not see anywhere. Since 2015, when you became a government and elected a Member, I have stressed the need for national energy planning directly, with pioneers, champions, in the first series of our priorities for renewable energy. The financial consolidation of PPC and the financing of investments that would support this change in the energy mix of PPC is the third main objective. Are these objectives approaching this draft law? No, in my opinion. While it seems to be identical or drawn up with European directives, PPC will lose more valuable time, as I did - and I told you to the committees - with the NOME mechanism. These are patches, without plan and without strategy. I also told you in committee that the "little" project solved the problem of reducing PPC's market shares effectively. You did not improve it as a government, you did not change it, you did not replace it with something better. You went to the NOME mechanism and this mechanism, as we know, was crowned by an absolute failure. It caused PPC financially and did not contribute at all to the reduction of PPC’s shares in marketing. The delay in selling these units after four years, however, means that all the lignite plants of PPC lost much of their value. The price for selling the units today is much lower. Isn't it, Mr. Statakis? I'm waiting to hear the numbers. Today we have much less available funds than four years ago for the financing of new investments through the sale of lignite plants, which at the time you were persecuting and you didn't want to hear or hear - I read you a page and the Prime Minister's statements - and now you are coming with a delay of time, with less available capital than investors, because there is also the problem of increasing the cost of pollutants and, unfortunately, PPC is on the back wall. PPC is sure to be forced to take tough, painful measures to restructure it in the coming years. I consider this to be a given and, as it is delayed, the worse the measures will be at the expense of the consumers of electricity. We on the river have five proposals, a five-point plan. Firstly, we were in favour - and we remain - of creating a small, new PPC or two young PPCs and of opening up the market and attracting new investors as a package, not with individual sales of units that are not attractive to investors. Actually, it's a dive, because an investor will take Megalopolis for five years to work it out shallow and everything he grabs, and after five years we see what happens. The second point of the river proposal is that we need a strategic investor with a role in PPC's administration. A strategic partner should have know-how, vision, plan, fund over and above all, so that he can take command and rule out government interventionism. The OTE model is very successful, ladies and gentlemen, and not the OSE of course. The third point that Potami wants to table as a proposal at this plenary session is work peace and job security with an investor's commitment to maintaining all personnel not for six years, as your draft law says. Because after six years what will happen? What pool of workers will the private worker draw from? At least there should be traceability clauses, a 60% to 40%. 60% can be local people working in units and mines and, of course, other incentives for voluntary exit or absorption in other mobile jobs can be provided. Fourth point is the improvement of collection. We, as Potami, propose that charges for third parties, ERTs, municipal fees, taxes, etc. be deducted from PPC's accounts. The accounts are inflated mainly by them. If you take an account of PPC, you will see that you pay, say, 30 euros for electricity and 40 euros for fees, over-thirds, charges, and one for each other. PPC's account has been made on the raft of terror!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u42	Who put these on?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u43	So take it off. We suggest that you take them off because it is difficult for the consumer to get paid out of the consumer, to inflate the dues, to inflate the debts against the consumer himself, of course, but also the economic stability of PPC. And it was, of course, disastrous, my dear fellow Member, the rhetoric of SYRIZA, "I do not pay, I do not pay." You remember those things. The last point of the river proposal is: 'COSMOTE' model for PPC for renewables, at least, and energy services. The future of energy lies in renewable energy sources. Just last week Portugal announced that 100% of its total energy needs covered it by RES. I refer to Portugal because we are about similar economic and social sizes. PPC must prepare itself for the post-infectious age. PPC renewables must move forward and claim a better market share and a stronger presence, to transform PPC renewables operationally into the ‘COSMOTE’ standards, allowing the public exploitation of many opportunities in the RES sector, free of hooks and weights. Ladies and gentlemen, as you will understand, the dear Mr Stathakis will be left alone to vote for this bill with the ANELs. I'm sorry we won't give you that vote, because she doesn't deserve this bill, it's a bad bill. We too have often demonstrated that we are trustworthy both in our vote and in our criticism. So, my dear Mr Stathakis, I urge you, for the last time, to show that you meant what you said until three years ago, to withdraw the bill and go with the words of the opposition of SYRIZA and not the mutated government majority of SYRIZANELs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr. Amyras. Mr Stathakis, Minister for the Environment and Energy, will be given the floor and will follow the list of registered speakers. Here, you have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u45	From what you heard from New Democracy and Opposition, PPC is being destroyed! Read some titles: "With 44% increase PPC runs in 2018 on the stock market". Hold 44%. ‘ Foreign investors bet on ELPE, PPC and IPTO for 2018’. "An increase of 1.37% of the PPC stock market", and so on. What did the Opposition blame us for? That PPC lost 60% of its value since 2015? So, let me remind you not to read the statistics, that in the second half of 2014 it lost the large volume of value, lost, and in 2015, it was then stabilised and, if I read the titles correctly, in 2018, so far the price of PPC's share has increased 63%. It is the third best return on the twenty-five stock market companies index. And to confirm how well PPC's markets are thinking, unlike you, PPC's borrowing costs fell below 4% and PPC bought 150 million from the 500 million bond loan in order to write it down and prolong it. This is PPC's image in relation to what the New Democracy says. But I will focus a little on the history, because it has caused us for the great lies and the representatives of the river, to mention some historical data which will probably allow our debate to take place on a realistic basis. PPC’s problem with PPC’s lignite monopoly dates exactly ten years ago. What did previous governments do? In the spring of 2012, before the 2012 elections, the then government - I do not remember what it was, however, SYRIZA was certainly not before the 2012 elections, it was another government -...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u46	2012 is a historic year. The government before or after the election?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u47	Yes, before the elections I said, in the spring of 2012, I was clear. The then government chose as a solution to the sale of the unit in Meliti, one of the two in Megalopoli and, in addition, the two in Amyntheus, along with the rental of production from the plant of Heart. This is said in part to a variation in the NOMEs. Shortly thereafter, when PPC won one of the court battles, the reason for this sale to go ahead was for it to go ahead. Remind me of what the election commitment was for the Memorandum, the government of Samara - Venizelos, in general for the memorandum, which you applied or for PPC what your election commitment was. The government, which kept the election commitments, therefore, has implemented two memos! The governments that were never elected on the basis of the memorandum, with the Zappeion made statements, so - I will come to us as well - the Samara - Venizelos government, despite what the New Democracy said before the 2012 elections - I stress this and I call on the New Democracy to remind us what it said - insisted on voting on the "little" PPC law, which provided for - hold! - horizontal privatisation of 30% of PPC: gas, water - more than 30% - lignites and customers. It also provided for the full privatization of IPTO, for the sale of 17% directly in order to reduce the presence of the public in PPC. The policy of "little" PPC was a package of measures that provided for any PPC! There was no PPC left, there was a public participation in an energy company with 34%. That was the New Democracy plan. The "little" PPC of the New Democracy is a complete plan where no PPC remains. IPTO is privatised, sold 30% immediately and sold and 17% of PPC is sold shortly later. That was the plan that SYRIZA denounced in so high tones and I'm sorry you're coming to defend it so many years later. Our government has abolished this plan directly. And because I listened with awe to lies and other kinds of things, I would like to say that we had the good political thought when our Government proceeded to the deal with the lenders for 2015-2018, to put it in the hands of the people.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u48	After she voted for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u49	I repeat that...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u50	...in August she voted for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u51	In August 2015, when the government - I'm sorry -...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u52	First it became a law and then you asked...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u53	Excuse me, you will understand your passion for this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u54	No, I don't have passion.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u55	The government was elected to Genoa by a specific programme. He fought for six months, did what he did and signed an agreement in August. And he goes and says "children, this is the agreement, this program will be implemented in 2015-2018 for any reason - one may agree or disagree -, choose a government". And he chose a government. So when someone comes today and says you have a lie, what kind of a lie do we have? Where's the lie? In getting a deal, good, bad, modest? - We put it in the citizens' judgement and re-electioned us? Did we say anything else? And now we're going to the data on the energy and PPC sector. The new government annulled PPC's "little" and, in fact, had never negotiated the sale of any plant. There is no one in the first cycle of PPC's sales ratings. What the government has done, for which you can criticise, is that, having accepted the need, PPC produces 50% of its energy, but has 90% on the retail market. So what's PPC doing today? It purchases everything that is produced in Greece by others in order to cover the retail market, which has a dominant position. The Government has recognised that this dominant position on the retail market will necessarily be reduced by European regulations and has chosen, instead of selling units or any other means, the NOME policy. In other words, to offer part of PPC’s production to competitors in order to acquire a position on the retail market. This policy is said to be harmful to PPC. Let's get the price. These were defined as the starting point for PPC's variable cost, the EUR 32 a kilowatt now. The latest NOME purchases are at 42-43 euros. I repeat: the variable cost is EUR 32. So it's not so harmful, so disastrous. Therefore, we have chosen a mode of operation that does not "send PPC in" as you claim. These are the economic data. On the other hand, it is a policy which was answering the question of which we have abolished. We didn't sell any PPC unit. The judgment of the European Court of Justice is a given one. It was at the end of 2016, it was not about the Memorandum, we say it for once. The decision of the European Court of Justice is final and irrevocable, and this has opened the matter, which we agreed to open with the Commission, not with the institutions, in order to find a solution which will remove the country's condemnation of this matter. And there we are. I listen with awe to what you say about hydroelectrics. We're negotiating from what it looks like, because otherwise the hydroelectric power would be inside.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u56	I'm afraid.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u57	Mr. Screkas is breaking his clothes. It says, "The hydroelectric ones will come in sometime. Deep desire! Perhaps a troika employee said something the other day, a technical step calls on us to make a decision and so on. We have remained strictly limited in view of this decision and the need to move forward, in a very specific way, and to implement and lift, as has been lifted three days before our bill, the condemnation of the country. Now let's go see this plan, which we just said, which, to repeat for once, includes just 10% of PPC's productive potential. 22% of lignite production today with a projection - when the old units leave and so on. - it'll reach 40% in 2025. First review: PPC "solds its silver". So inadequate presentation of the three units for sale by Mr. Skreka, I've never heard. What are the three good units? Megalopolis 3! Who would you say it and believe it? The Megalopolitan 3, which ends in 2025, has, as you know, the lowest return, not the best. So, surely you can't say it's the diamond that's being sold. Megalopolis 4 is a good unit. That's it. Let's go to Melite. Melite has a low return, for a very simple reason. Good unit, moderate performance, because of the look. When Bey enters, then the unit return will be improved. So the idea that we give PPC's three "diamonds" is far from reality. I repeat, PPC maintains its full core, which is the five units of Agios Dimitrios. I should also like to reply to this particular point, because Mr. Skrekas told us that PPC will stay without any unit: PPC has upgraded Unit 5 fully. It has done a dry decommissioning at four units and provides for wet rotating, first at 3 and 4 and then at 1 and 2. Nowhere in this mid-term remains PPC without its strong pillar, which are the units of Agios Dimitrios. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] We're going to the law issue with Megalopolis. We've said it thirty times, Mr. Screkas has come back, and I really wonder. You built a unit in Megalopoli, on your administrations, at a certain point in time. At the same time, we are opening up the project of IPTO and it says that the completion of the Peloponnese will take place in 2020. What does the present government have to do with it? We are four years of government and we have a plan, which says that it has opened a unit at the time, which cannot function, because 2020 will be able to fully operate. The only way it can fully function is to stop the lignite of Megalopolis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u58	Where did you find it in 2020? What document?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u59	It's IPTO's plan absolutely. As much as you want we can talk about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u60	You will know it was ending 2016.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u61	As long as you want, we're talking about it. Let me get you all the evidence from IPTO. What the government has done is one thing: 2020 has been done and the project will be completed in one year since today, namely the Megalopolis Unit, which, I repeat, because of this problem is still on trial, is not fully operational, it will take place in the second half of 2019, since the project will be completed in just one year from today. Therefore, crocodile tears about private interest towards PPC have a duration of 12 months. Be patient. I think that's the famous theme of Megalopolis. In 2020, moreover, these units as a whole will naturally also feed Crete, when the interconnection of the Peloponnese with Crete is completed. The competition has just been opened. We now go to the wonderful loans and to the destruction of the company of the two problems created by SYRIZA: First, the "I do not pay". Everyone considers that the debts to PPC suddenly increased from 1 billion to 2.5 billion, due to the mass movement "I don't pay". All right, let's look at them and analyze them all. Secondly, it is the supranationalism of the company that I will stand for, because I cannot avoid looking back into the past. PPC is an over loaned company. Why? When did these loans increase and why? All analysts identify two years: 2008 and 2011. Explosion of PPC debts, I repeat, in 2008 and 2011. Some 1.5 billion increased PPC’s loans over the two years, 850 million a year and 600 million a year. So there's a problem. When you analyse a little better, you will see that PPC's problems throughout the period and in the " bubble" and then, on the back of the crisis, are solved through lending and solved through a bad lending. That is why, in 2012, 2013, the amazing governments we had at the time, as they were digging through PPC's loans, were suddenly trying to solve the problem with short-term bonds for three years - I stress this, three years - each of EUR 500 million. So, as we have a loan explosion, problems, bad choices, mismanagement, bad investment, dealing with problems through borrowing, we have a PPC that suddenly from these overcompensations of 2008 and 2011 is trying in 2012, 2013 and 2014 to deal with them with loans of 500 million, three years. That's PPC's problem. Today, for this problem of PPC, in relation to its overcompensation and its short-lived way of dealing, we hear that the government is coming to say that PPC is being destroyed, because the pentacosaus. Yes,'scan'. We faced them, however, because just before, I told you that PPC regained 150 of the pentacosari, which is "drying" this year and the way we faced it, we hear it was another disastrous choice of our government to create liquidity in PPC. This year, in 2017, over a year, PPC collected 1.2 billion euros. The origin of this was: The 380m euros were from the privatisation of IPTO with the strategic investor, the 460m euros from the repayment of your YGEOs - not well understood - and the rest from the choice of the public to sign a long-term contract with PPC, with discounts and advances part of this long-term contract with PPC. This created a dreadful liquidity in PPC, which allowed it to face the loans, restructured what they are going through now and in 2019...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u62	Minister, I've left you six minutes extra. You'll have to close in twenty minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u63	Good. So the problem of borrowing obligations is closed too. If anyone analyses the 2.5 billion euro increase, 1/3 comes from activities, which have closed in the major recession of 25%, for the other 1/3 there are social difficulties and 1/3 still includes strategic mispaids. In conclusion, the idea that PPC is being destroyed, despite successive screams, is not confirmed. I told you the catalysts of 2018. You decide whether the New Democracy projections for the destruction of PPC are so good. Don't take her as a financial advisor. Follow the stock exchange advisors better. Something they know better than New Democracy, when they increase PPC's price by 64% from the beginning of the year. Believe it is a programme that we are bringing, which is doing three basic things today: firstly, it is compulsory to go hand in hand with the ruling of the European Court of Justice and frees the country from its condemnation. Secondly, it has a transparent process for lignite plants and the competition that PPC will do. Thirdly, it has strong labour rights, which are enshrined in the bill. If you give me two minutes, I will say both about the legislative improvements and the amendments, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u64	All right, you've got two minutes. Just know that when the ministers introduce urgent bills, time is limited, not only for the Members, but also for the ministers and you must keep this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u65	You're absolutely right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u66	However, because we have a relatively comfortable time tonight, say about the amendments and close with them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u67	Good. First of all, I'm going to testify to the legislative improvements. The main points on which I will stand are the integration of district heating as a commitment for the new owners. In paragraph 2 of Article 2 of the draft law, after the word ‘obligation’, the words ‘including thermal energy and districts for the operation of district heating’ are added. Secondly, in the first subparagraph of paragraph 1 of Article 4 of the draft law after the words ‘PPC S.A.’, the words ‘such as existing collective labour agreements’ are added. Immediately after the entry into force of this Law, a subparagraph is added as follows: ‘If no different provision is laid down in this Act, the conditions for the dismantling of branches and for the transfer of workers are applicable to the conditions laid down in No 178/2002 (A'162) in relation to the retention of workers' rights in the event of transfer of undertakings, establishments or parts of establishments or undertakings’. The third major change concerns lignite, the local tax paid by lignite production. In the first subparagraph of Article 7(1), ‘EUR 1,20’ is replaced by ‘EUR 1,40’. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I would remind you that these proposals are in the same spirit as the proposals put forward by many institutions, by the regions, by MPs and by all of this debate. I think these are the main changes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u68	I shall refer to two more amendments. I can accept one at a time. It comes from Mr. Balomannakis, and it's about...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u69	Say the general number and the special number, not the names.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u70	The amendment with a general number of 1562 and a special 186, comes from Mr Balomennakis and Mrs Vagonakis and concerns the possibility of wider movements of subsidiaries towards the parent company PPC S.A. to meet service needs. There is also an amendment, an amendment from our Ministry, which essentially concerns ELAP, the mechanism whereby renewable energy is paid. The amendment says: For 2018 we will have a surplus in this account. As you know, this account is powered by consumers - they are not touched - and from the end of the energy producers. After a great effort we have made over these years, the fee for energy producers will have a surplus. We put it at a time when ELAP was in deficit and now became surplus. Therefore, for 2018, with the surplus of EPA which will appear, the end of producers will be reduced by analogy, excluding a significant amount, around EUR 70 million, which will remain a security fund. Therefore, the additional sum, beyond 70 million, will lead to a write-down of the producer fee. We estimate that this will be about 100 million or more. PPC will benefit by 70% and 30% the other energy producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u71	We shall proceed as follows: Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy Mr Nikolaos Dendias will now be given the floor. Then I will give the floor to the State Secretary, Mrs Papanatsiou, to support her own amendment. I would like to inform you that Mr Xydakis, Mr Manatis, Mr Panayotaros, Mr Karathanasopoulos and Mr Papachristopoulos have asked to speak tomorrow as Parliamentary Representatives. Then we'll be on the speaker list. I will read out the first four to be notified, although some are here: Mrs. Megaloconomou, from the Centron Association, Mr. Antoniadis from the New Democracy, Mr. Karras from the Democratic Asylum, Mr. Germenis from the Golden Dawn and Mr. Balomenis from the SYRIZA. This is the one-five of colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u72	What time is the meeting going today?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u73	Because a number of colleagues have asked to speak tomorrow, I think we will end this evening at around 22.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u74	Mr President, because Liverpool plays too, should we do it 22.00 if I may?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u75	Let's get to 22:00 and see what's going on. You have also expressed your Olympic opinions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u76	No, you're abstaining from blasphemy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u77	Oh, because it's early with Olympiacos. All right, Mr. Dendia, after you took it as blasphemy. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, it is always very pleasant - and I have said this before - to listen to Minister Stathakis in this Chamber. Of course, today Mr. Stathakis went through the escapade and went further. A little too much has expressed a major claim that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has been a government consistent with its commitments to the Greek people. That was the main argument of the Minister. In fact, he told us as proof of his claim that the government, after the first six months, which indirectly recognised that he had evidence of destruction, in 2015 he returned to the Greek people and asked for his approval and further. The Greek people approved and the government is legitimised on the basis of the second folk mandate of autumn 2015. That's what the Minister told us. In other words, this government is a government that tells the truth in society, it explains directly and does in line with commitments to society. Minister, that's what you said. I must tell you that not even the worst enemy of this government has accused it of being pitied. Even the worst enemy of this government did not "again it" for consistency. There are, of course, too many who have justified its complete inconsistency because of lack of interest. The Prime Minister himself recognized that he was not expecting what he found. Now, that the government is consistent I have to say that it is a newly known claim, bright in its purity. It, of course, runs counter to the little obstacle, what we call reality. Why, in order to be informed, so as to understand, Mr. 4472/2017, the so-called fourth Memorandum of Understanding, are they, Minister, within the framework of the mandate you received from the Greek people in the autumn of 2015? Is L.4387/2016 the Katrugalou, the “slaughter” of pensions, within your understanding by Greek society during the 2015 election campaign? So, my memory doesn't serve me well that I don't remember the Prime Minister, but do you come and tell us that of course the Prime Minister was elected in 2015 by saying: 'Would we cut pensions'? Of course the Prime Minister was re-elected in September 2015 by saying: 'Would we dramatically increase the tax rates'? Was he chosen to sign a fourth Memorandum? He was chosen by saying: "Would we mortgage your property, Greeks, for ninety years?" That is what Mr Tsipras said, the people were enthusiastic, and he was given the mandate again, and he is, of course, doing it today. Is that what you're telling us? I think that, in any case, ladies and gentlemen, the parliamentary speech must have certain limits, somewhere to end, somewhere to be consistent with reality, because otherwise it becomes absolutely empty. And I would ask you very much to come back to reason, to discuss your mistakes, to discuss, if you want - not to tell you the lies - the inaccuracies you have said, but now do not force us to answer your claim that you have told the truth in 2015 and you are a legitimate government. And in any case, because it is not possible for all Greeks to have lost their minds if you are such a consistent government in your election announcements in autumn 2015, why have you lost half of your election power in every count?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u79	You can imagine.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u80	You know what we don't know?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u81	I see, you're hoping to regain it now. But Mr. Stathakis has a cute time using numbers. I can show you here, ladies and gentlemen, and I imagine you can see that, the graph of PPC's stock - I've downloaded it now from the Internet - over the last five years. This disastrous graph was presented by the Minister about as an upward course, as if this stock were to break every limit up and really outside the Athens Stock Exchange, killing who would buy it first. That's what he told us. He's got, he says, the stock, 44% this year, blue chip, ignoring to tell us that he may have taken whatever he took, but he's so devastated that 44%, 84%, 184%, is objectively irrelevant, because the increase of 300% remains insignificant. These are not of any importance to the Minister. It's not math. It's indifferent. And I have to tell you it made me a great impression. I sincerely expected you here, you are three and a half years of government and you like it or you don't like it - you probably don't like it - you're heading out. In any case, like the flower just before it falls, it's blossoming, it's mature, and I was waiting today for you to bring this piece of legislation into reality, not just to bring us a piece of legislation that is based on your agreement with the European Commission in 2018, but above all to develop what I imagine every government in its maturation should have: an overall plan for the energy of the country. Tell us, in any case, whether the people will approve it - they will not approve it - in the next election, how you see the country's energy future. Tell us what your vision is, what you'd like to do about the maturation caused by your three-year-old and something you've been in power. Instead, what did we hear? We heard a petty dispute with the past: "You did this, you didn't do that, that number, this one, the other." Contrary to the past, the need to prove that the past is sinful and that you are purified. Do not offer anything in the public dialogue, do not fuel with any vision the Greek society is absolutely justified, since a past was bad. So by contrast, even if you do nothing, the present is not bad. This is not a way of dealing with things. One cannot really claim that PPC is a company without problems, based on the Stock Exchange and the increase in the share price. In fact, I explained before why this is completely insignificant. But we should go to a second level. If I remember correctly - and I am not addressing ANELs, but on the Radical Left Party - you are SYRIZA. Yeah? You were elected as SYRIZA. Yeah? I don't understand, do you come to tell us now that the right of a business is its value on the Stock Exchange? To understand, what is your second ideological argument? That the Exchange is proving the success or failure of a project? Because if you believe that, please explain to me how you entered SYRIZA. Didn't anyone stop you from coming in? With the Athens Exchange price sheet, did you enter SYRIZA, ladies and gentlemen? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Honestly, hours - hours are the abyss of man's soul. You can't understand what he's saying. Furthermore, Minister, to understand, is there or is there an increase in the non-payments due to PPC? Is there or isn't there? Because everyone in Greek society claims other for PPC. Leave New Democracy. Let us assume that the New Democracy has its own electoral planning and wants to present a reality, as it would like. Forget it. Talk to society outside. Is there a Greek who currently considers PPC to be thriving? Let me get this straight. Is there a Greek who does not believe that PPC is in a deep problem, including the President and CEO, whom you have appointed? Is there anyone to think that PPC is in safe waters, the largest Greek company in employment and that it is not in danger? Is this the current claim and, indeed, that this legislation adds and does not remove from PPC? Is that the entire government plan? On the basis of this reality, are you facing PPC’s situation today? Because it's nice to decorate images, nice to create ideal realities. But with ideal realities we do not face PPC's situation as it is today. What hours can you say? What's that supposed to mean? Because, Minister, you were Minister of Economics. This year the country's debt reached its record high, in 191.3% of gross national product. We have never reached this level so far. You have three and a half years in the government of the country and you come just before the end of your term with the greatest debt you've ever had. There is no international organization foresees that you will respect the forecasts regarding the Greek economy. The primary surplus is estimated at 2.9% of GDP this year. Right? As far as overtaxation is concerned, the causes are well known. Isn't that what the IMF predicts, your new interlocutor and friend, compared to the 3.5% anticipated by you? So that we can know, I mean. From there on, if you're kind enough, is there for development a provision for this year to exceed 2%? Is there an international organisation that says that this government will bring more than 2% growth?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u82	Are you blaming us for that? What if it's over 2%?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u83	What if we blame you? To understand one thing. When the reality falls short of predictions, do we have to praise you? Shouldn't we blame you? When, in other words, you say to the Greek society 'I will bring growth of 2,5, 3, 4, 8', and you bring 1 and something, we have to say 'bravo, congratulations that you have fallen out'? Let me see what you're asking us to do. Listen. There's no harm in the theater of irrationality. It's not bad at all. One can also talk about absurdity under other conditions. That's just not politics. This is not government practice. This is not a political response to the crisis. That's not a clean exit. It's just an insanity, an intellectual game. So what the government is doing right now is saying anything unlikely to be imagined, considering it self-evident that the other side will enter, either the other parties or the society in this dialogue on the absurd. In other words, we will sit down and discuss whether it is triumph 44% - the insignificant - rise of PPC's share, ignoring that PPC's share is on the verge. To come back to reason, Mr Minister, you have had a chance today. After all, you won't have much because the cage's badly exhausted. You had an opportunity to present, even during the departure phase of this government, a vision of the country's energy policy. A policy that you could have created and recommended to Greek society as a solution to the major energy problem. You have lost this opportunity, dealing with the micro-party criticism of the past. I'm telling you, you won't have much left! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u84	I will now give Mrs Papanatsiou the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u85	I shall speak from here, Mr President, so that we do not delay. The amendment is in general numbers 1559 and 183. It shall be amended in accordance with Article 395 of Law 4512/2018 and shall apply to staff from the General Accounting Office of the State to the ECA. Fifty-two organic posts of permanent staff were foreseen, we are just now coming and doing the analysis. Fifty permanent staff positions are, in particular, twenty-two IP category fiscal sector, seven TE sector class posts, twenty-one CI sector posts and two CI sector posts with a working relationship of private law of indefinite duration. The first fifty posts are permanent. Also, in the first subparagraph of paragraph 5 of Article 395 of Law 4512/2018, the words ‘served’ shall be replaced by ‘served’. In point (a) of paragraph 5 of Article 395 of Law No 4512/2018, the fourth subparagraph is added as follows: ‘In order to ensure the immediate operation of the service, they shall be seconded to a post of responsibility of the same or higher level of its organic units, by joint decision of the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity and the Minister for Economic Affairs, who have served in positions of responsibility in the Directorate-General for Public Pensions Sector of the General Secretariat for Finance of the Ministry of Finance. By way of derogation from the provisions set out above, the secondment shall end automatically by the choice and place of heads, in accordance with the provisions of Articles 84 to 86 of Law 3528/2007 as applicable. In the third subparagraph of Article 395, the following is added: ‘The Heads of Organic Units occupy a position at a level corresponding to the Ministry of Finance with the one they held before the abolition of the Directorate-General for the Administration of Public Pensions. The administrative powers provided for in the General Administration of Public Pensions Sector of the General Accounting Office of the State shall be exercised by the Directorate-General for Pensions of the Single Social Security Institution.’ Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u86	Mr. Maniotis has asked me for a three-minute intervention. Only with the consent of this House can I do so, because the parliamentary representatives have no seconds to the urgent bills. Therefore, because he will speak tomorrow, he cannot intervene today. He joins the House in intervening with Mr. Maniotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u87	Thank you for having the consent of this House. Mr. Maniotis, you can speak from your position for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u88	If it is possible for the Minister here too to hear, because my intervention concerns what he said before.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u89	Then you'll be waiting after the colleagues. I won't interrupt them. He'll take the floor for the first five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u90	All right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u91	Ms. Theodora Megalocon from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President. I shall begin with something that has come to my attention from the rapporteur of the New Democracy that he has spoken about PPC's bankruptcy now, on the SYRIZA-ANEL coexistence. You seem to have suffered, ladies and gentlemen, dementia, you forget very easily. Because then I was not a Member of Parliament, but the recruitment vessel and what you wanted to take and give your voters were PPC, OTE and Olympics, which you destroyed. There was no one I knew who wasn't appointed to PPC. Leave the trade unionists you, the PASOK, the big wages. Don't forget that at all, Mr. Screka.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u93	Did I refer to you personally?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u94	No, you said the current PPC government is bankrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u95	Why do you refer to me personally? Is it personal?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u96	You said so.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u97	Don't have a dialogue and don't make personal references. The New Democracy said it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u98	The New Democracy, all right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u99	Talk about the party that did it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u100	They led to bankruptcy. It's good OTE changed form and saved a little bit. Nor did there be strikes when the New Democracy or the PASOK? They didn't download the switches at PASOK? I've been without power too many times. Then you didn't mind, it was all right. And even there were long holidays, not just vacations. It would be a lie to think that then it was all right. Before SYRIZA was elected, before 2015 - if I remember correctly - a family, mother and girl died because they had been cut off. They had a candle and they got on fire. Now PPC has social invoices, has doses, so I think things are better. I would now like to refer to the bill. I have listened carefully to all sides and colleagues, and I have drawn the following conclusions: Civic Opposition has once again been carried out in a populist rhetoric. So, colleagues of the New Democracy prove that they only care about them is not the interests of their home country, but how they improve their image to the public. A lot can be said about liberation. But I - not to get far, because time is short - I have summarised six truths: The first truth: PPC has been irrevocably condemned to the General Court of the European Union for the monopolistic exploitation of lignite. Obviously, we cannot ignore the judgments of the European Court of Justice. We must respect the institutions of the European Union, and that is what I imagine the New Democracy side agrees. Secondly, as it goes without saying, the introduction of new competing companies will, of course, affect electricity prices downwards, not upwards, and therefore the consumer will benefit from reduced prices. When there is competition, prices fall. Thirdly, European and international energy policy is to turn towards renewable energy sources rather than lignite. Today's bill only concerns a part of lignite production and not all energy sources. The fourth truth is that the bill under no circumstances weakens PPC from its dominant role, since private purchases of 40% of PPC’s lignite production will be purchased by individuals. After all, the Megalopolis unit had a limited life span, until 2025. Fifth truth: Local societies, that is, Arcadia, Kozani, Florina, will continue to benefit from the financing of infrastructure and environmental protection, since, in the place of lignite now, there will be a special fee - as the Minister said, instead of EUR 1,20 and very well - EUR 1,40 per kilowatt, which will pay off the sums that are paid today. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me a minute more, Mr President. The sixth truth is that the jobs of workers are secured at the plants to be sold for the next six years. At this point I would stress the reactions that have been caused that we have a primary interest in the protection of workers and their rights, and I also believe that it is self-evident - because you told us that you would not be recruited - that workers who have already had experience of years in these positions will be the right staff to exploit future private employers. After all, let us not forget that the current government did everything in its power to stop PPC's unconditional sale, which had begun with the creation of the so-called "little PPC". In any case, I think that the debate should now turn into our overall energy strategy, with a view to the future and the changes that are coming. Also, let us not forget that local societies - and I am mainly talking about Megalopolis, Florina and Kosani - have lived for decades and are still living thanks to lignite mines and PPC. We will have to take a serious look at the planning for the next day of these regions, the use of land and the stimulation of economics. I think the government is going too far. To think that the General Court of the European Union will vindicate us and will not constantly impose fines on us, so there will be no New Democracy's claim that 'we will not do it for impression, but for the benefit of the Greek people'. I do not agree, ladies and gentlemen. You are just doing it to impress, say what you want to say about your voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u101	Mr Ioannis Antoniadis, from New Democracy, has the floor with a slight tolerance, as is Mrs Megalo-Economist. Mr. Antoniadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr President. Listening yesterday to the Minister, Mr Stathakis, answering a fast track procedure on the Members' labels, I had the impression that I was listening to a troika representative. With such pride and preoccupation he told his achievements, how he sold DESFA a few million more, how he will now sell PPC. He forgot, of course, to tell us about TIADE, how he pledged all the property of the Greek people for a hundred years. I really imagine that all Greece has cried with its successes! He's worthy! Today we have heard this absurdity: PPC's share has increased by 60%, obviously because Mr Stathakis sells the three units! Those math I learned I can't understand. Unethical second. Listen to the good news: Many of SYRIZA's colleagues are using the European Court of Justice's ruling. The European Court of Justice ruling - the Minister also mentioned it - came out in May 2016. You voted for the sale of PPC in August 2015. What does the European Court of Justice have to do with it? Did you have any 'deep throat' which has informed you that the European Court of Justice will have to sell? Who are you selling these to? Ladies and gentlemen, starting with an issue that shaked the political things of the country in 2014 and was one of the main pillars of SYRIZA's victory - and I am talking about the PPC issue and the sale of the units - I would like to remind you of the two phrases by Mr Tsipras and Mr Kammenos: 'National crime to be prevented', said Mr Tsipras. I'm not saying the rest. "They donate the public property" Mr. Kammenos. So the title of today's bill should only be one: "I'm sorry! I'm sorry! I'm sorry!’ "I'm sorry from the Greek people because we deceived him, we took the vote and we became a government." It is the greatest political deception of the SYRIZA - ANEL. At the end of the eight articles, together with the signatures of the Ministers, all three resignations should be made: Mr Stathakis, Mr Tsipras and Mr Kammenos. The Minister didn't answer anything. When was the right thing to do? The right thing was then when they said that it should not be sold or today that it should be sold. Which one was right? For the Greek people to know when he supported the mistake. Then he's been backing up wrong or right now? Unless it is the case, "We said five lies to take power". Also, I'm glad that SYRIZA joined the religion. In every difficult bill he also puts a saint protector. Here he put Agios Georgios to ensure the success of the sale of PPC. There is no consultation with local bodies. All the mayors and regional directors who came to the consultation were asked and no one had consultation except for the three and five minutes meeting we had. No proposal from local bodies has been accepted. By also looking at the bill, ladies and gentlemen - nor did the Minister reply to it - in Article 3 - do you hear another nice absurdity of the case, in order not to call it dishonest - what does it say? ‘Trade of competitive process for the completion of disinvestment’. As long as PPC has these plants, it burns lignite and produces electricity it is an investment in lignite and when the individual takes it and uses the same factory with the burning of lignite, then it is a disinvestment. But that's a sale! It's clear. They sell the factories, unless they enjoy them, so they must put the word 'free'. So let them leave these political frauds and use the real words, which are the word'sales'. Because I see that time is going on, why don't we vote for the bill is well known. The main reason is that it converts PPC into a shell and does not ensure competition for the reduction of electricity for the benefit of the Greek people. But I come to the most important thing that concerns me and it has not been said. We are not voting for the bill and we are not voting for it, because local society does not get any compensation. I'm talking about Florinna and Megalopolis. These are the areas which have been offering and receiving nothing for ten years. Who knows from the Greek people and from you present colleagues who do not have the obligation that electricity costs to go to Athens from Florina more than doubled? The Athenian, however, pays the same price, such as the Florinian producer, for the Athenian is subsidized, while the Florinian is not. We pay an average of EUR 700 for the islands. However, they pay the same as the Florinot. The islanders are rightly subsidised, the Florinites are not. Do you know that our GDP is rising and we look rich in western Macedonia and we are losing tens of millions of dollars from the ESRB? We're losing out of development law and getting smaller subsidies. We are losing jobs from the fight against unemployment, from rural development, from the 'I'm saving at home' that we had the other day. This has been the case for tens of years, it is not just today's phenomenon and no government is moved by national resources to pay off against the tens of millions we lose. For the local resource, ladies and gentlemen, which sounds like you're taking some millions, I'm telling you a number. Of the 130 billion that the region has produced, do you know how much it took to make up for environmental damage? No 10%, no 5%, no 1%. Took 2, 5, 5. Of the 120 billion, Kozani Prefecture and Florina took just 300 million. If this can be fought and the environmental damage is closed, let the last good-time listener judge. I'm hanging up. We are demanding and asking for two things which we consider to be unreasonable. The first basic thing we want, if a private investor comes - whether PPC or whoever wants to be - is the local unemployed workforce to have a priority in recruitment. Next to Skopje - I keep saying - the Chinese - because the Chinese are also interested - have built some major public works. Do you know who worked there? They brought Chinese workers along, squeeze them in, pay them - I don't know exactly how much - 1, 2, 3 euros and build the works. We are not going to accept that. But this must be guaranteed in the bill somehow. Find the way to distribute, whether private or PPC is. I say this because the private lignite operator is not a supermarket or any business we cannot force him to take our own workers. He's taking advantage of our own wealth that's under our feet, is irreplaceable and we have shares, we have a share and we want that share. Otherwise, it's not happening at all. I say this, if these two are not satisfied, the recruitment of the unemployed and the grant of electricity by 50% to farmers and businesses, and free to households, take Meliti and Amyntheus, we are giving you them. Bring them to Kolonaki, Athens and produce power from here. We don't want them. You ruined our tourism. Agricultural products have been destroyed. We've got unemployed. We're sending our own kids to work waiters on the islands. We don't want the factories, I honestly say it. We will turn to other ways of working. We're clear. I don't want to tire you. I spoke more about this because the other issues have been dealt with. Personally, if you had ensured a few things, I was prepared and supported. Unfortunately, however, I see that by the processing that has been done in the bill, PPC is turned into a shell, so it cannot ensure healthy competition. This is how the Greek people are being deceived, and that is why we are voting against this bad bill, which will bring disastrous results. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u103	I did a little the wrong eyes, because of Florins, to tell the truth. We're moving on with Mr. George Carras. Happy birthday already yesterday. I don't know now, my son, when can we wish you a wish? St. George, St. Dimitrios? So far, I haven't seen either St. George's or St. Demetrius's, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u104	Mr President, thank you for your wishes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u105	I'm waiting for it tomorrow, so.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u106	I'll take care of it. I have to say: I take advantage of the two names to celebrate twice a year and my friends wish me twice a year. I think it's a privilege, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u107	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u108	Thank you. A bill for PPC's so-called deinvestment in two lignite industries. We have spoken against it, we have said that the deinvestment relates to lignite fields, of the same PPC mines and of steam plants. I have looked at the judgments of the European Court of Justice invoked in the explanatory statement. We are talking about PPC having a monopoly on the mining market and should grant mines. That sounds right and sensible, if you like, in the context of competition. I did not, however, find an obligation that PPC should also grant production plants to Meliti Florina and Megalopolis Arcadia. But, after all, if there is an interesting investment and the lignite fields are delivered, there will also be new investments that are competitive with PPC, new steam power stations being created, and so, parallel activity to see whether this can be another model, different from what the government has chosen. Unfortunately, however, I have to comment on the importance of these arrangements, which express an uneasiness to fulfil some of the Memorandum obligations. I do not have the impression that the public interest is served, even if each article in the specific bill starts to read: 'for reasons of public interest'. I will give two, three examples. Is the public interest really served by the concession of the lignite fields? Does the competitive interest really serve? But there is something that differentiates the situation. It was also said by the official ministerial lips that this is how deinvestment is achieved at 40%. So let me accept that this concerns the two fields and the steam stations. But if we take on the gift that the state makes to the future investor, here I start and wonder whether it has already been pre-selected. Let's go to an article, says there's also a large public lignite mine in Behea, the colleagues from the region know that. This mine is not in a holding because the former operator has disqualified. And this will obviously be granted by direct contract, since it was the person concerned and will not be awarded a competition, that is, the one who will acquire the power station of Florinas, Meliti. But isn't this a gift when the value of the mine is not estimated and the state comes under legislation to be obliged to grant it directly? Here I would like to say something else: should we also see the public's financial interests if they are served? So it says the same piece of legislation that PPC will choose an independent economic consultant to do the valuation, which will of course be secret to avoid leaking, so that there can be a competition. But when will he do the valuation? Following the formation of the two companies, once these two branches have been separated and there will be two distinct legal entities. And the question arises, and I say it directly: what will be the chapter of these new companies, which will be the basis for calculating the price? What's the chapter? Will PPC keep it under the table, don't make a better price? But when the capital is low, it is valued, for example. 5-10 million each company, this is the starting point of the price. And who will be the remarkable, trustworthy, evaluator or consultant who can be differentiated from capital? Shares will be sold. Whatever the goodwill is, it'll be 1, 2, 3. It won't be 10, 20, 50, 100. Be careful, this leads to a reduction in public rights and this makes me very careful for this reason: I find, Mr President, a similar provision, which gives criminal immunity to the PPC board and the board of directors of the companies that will be created. They will have no responsibility, he says, if they comply with the terms of this law. If they comply with the terms of the law, they have no responsibility, no valuations, no capital in companies. So should we give them up? Shall we give Vivian's biggest look? Do you want me to continue with the weaknesses and manipulations of the bill? So let me go on. PPC is known to have a financial problem. It has a loan of ECU 2.5 billion, but for which I do not meet a provision, that, in the proportion of the acquirer, the preferred investor, the two or the one that will exist, this debt will be transferred respectively. On the contrary, it says that the provisions of civil law, which carry responsibility to the acquirer, do not apply. The debts therefore remain in PPC. But what will be the fate of PPC's share in the next period? No one has brought a report to tell us about the reduction of these important assets. And I would like to say something else, because I see that time has touched - as our ancient ancestors have said - the end of the speech. The biggest problem that this law creates is that it gives the message of PPC's depreciation and takes away responsibility. So let me say the last word on the subject of the special fee for exploration and exploitation rights. What are these? Different figures have been heard, various calculations have been made. I read something that concerns me, and I do not want to be a veteran of bad ones, but I fear that there will be overthrows here too. What form does it have? It is the government's duty to clarify it. Is that a reward fee? Is that a tax? What is it? Because, as it is imposed on all the lignite regions within the Greek territory - so it does not only impose it on the two transporting holdings - this will be done in favour of the regions of western Macedonia and Peloponnese on all regions. Is that a tax? It's obviously a tax. Is there, then, a correlation between this tax and the purpose pursued by the law? I do not know, but I do not want an answer at the moment, because I am sure the government will not give me the answers to questions, as it did not give them to the committee where I have put them. In fact, PPC's president in a way that I can say was annoying, when I asked how he would value the assets, which will be delivered, said a lie that they do not need valuation, because they will be valued later on. It showed a lack of any consistency with the economic principles. You can't have a company without knowing the capital and the assets you're transferring. That's how they're going to be sold? We will vote against. Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u109	We shall proceed with Mr Georgios Germenis from Golden Dawn. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr President. Another Memorandum of Understanding is now concluded with the blessings of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, in the form of the urgent procedure that Parliament deceives, favours parliamentary procedures and undermines the importance and contribution of lignite and mines in the economy and the energy mix in the country. So trustworthy, in the European Commission's orders, you are unnecessarily continuing the fragmentation and sale of PPC in terms of terms and conditions, which favour private investors. Really, can you explain to us the logic of disinvestment, as you have renamed in your usual practice this time the sale? How can you talk about disinvestment, but attract investors when you have not invested as a result of the modernisation of PPC's units? How can you wish to comply with the judgments of the European Court of Justice in respect of the decommissioning of fossil fuels and, on the other hand, to take all necessary steps and open procedures to operate the lignite plants in question? We must not forget that lignite is rightly the national fuel of Greece. It has made a major contribution to the development of industrial activity and has largely ensured the energy self-sufficiency of our country. With the sale of lignite plants, the full exploitation of lignite reserves and the exploitation of the rights of exploration and exploitation of the deposits, the electricity generated from basic social assets is further converted into a profitable product, which the Troika's neoliberals have sought and you are fulfilling. With this bill, PPC is in an extremely unfavourable situation. She loses the most efficient lignite plants and remains those for which millions of euros are needed to modernise and extend their working time. In addition, there is a great deal of question about the protection of workers. Your proposal does not go hand in hand with opening up jobs or maintaining all existing jobs. The provision is that not all employees should enter the new companies, which entails a lower operating cost for the new companies, while the remaining staff are called upon to absorb it to its other subsidiaries. Otherwise it undertakes that the cost of incentivising its employees is borne by them. Therefore, we will see that the redemption price is degrading and additionally damaged will be PPC. It is therefore a question of the complete deorganisation of the company, which will be impossible to meet the obligations and therefore the national crime of its totalitarian purse will be committed. So we cannot see any positive elements in this bill that you brought. We do not see why SYRIZA and the New Democracy disagree. We have seen these disagreements in committee. We are seeing them today. Since you both wanted to sell out the Public Power Corporation, since you did everything, everyone in the way of getting us into this situation, what exactly is your disagreement? Who's going to split PPC further? Who's gonna sell it faster? It is a crime that will sell the infrastructure of a public company, which has built it up generations of taxpayers with their weakness, which has unlimited national wealth, which is the property of all Greeks. You will have to do whatever goes through your hand to make the company profitable and not continue to complicate. You could reorganise, but not sell. And all this, supposedly, against your ideology. In your programme you had a separate chapter on the energy sector where you criticised the previous political establishment, emphasised energy policy with a social value and emphasised the safeguarding of energy as a social asset, with a decisive public control over the organisation and management of the entire electricity production and supply system. As you also mentioned in your programme for the public energy production sector, with PPC itself, which would be protected from privatisation practices. We have often pointed out how two-faced you are and how treacherously you are toward the Greek people, who were convinced in your own false announcements. Programmatic commitments were air words. The sale of lignite plants is destructive and the country will lose a key development pillar. We will witness additional increases in electricity bills with increased fees. The public good is transformed into luxury and more households will be at risk of energy poverty, with all that that implies for the Greek economy and society. This situation is fully guided by the European Commission, after putting its own assessor - mandated expert - to ensure that what you have agreed is done in full and there will be no surprises. Finally, you have managed to lose, not only the confidence of the Greek people, but also of those to whom you have granted land and water. You have sold out - now - apart from our national sovereignty and the ownership of our energy wealth. Finally, stop the rhetoric of enforcing the measures by the institutions and that it was not your initiative. Clearly the previous governments also have a responsibility, but you are carrying out these things to divest neuro-algal sectors. We, as Greek nationalists, know the national interest, feel the pulse of society, understand every day the problems of the tested Greek and insist on our basic political positions expressing the interest of the Greek nation. We are voting against this piece of legislation in which the disastrous work of disbursement of energy and our country continues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u111	Well, we will proceed as follows: I will now, as I have told you, give your consent for three minutes to Mr Maniotis' speech. Then, if the Minister, Mr Stathakis, wants to answer him, he will take the floor for three minutes and then we will close with the following colleagues: Mr Balomenakis, Mrs Karakostas, Mr Boukoro and Mr Kasapidis. I don't know if Mr. Deputy Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u112	I'll tell you, Mr. President. I want to see if the Minister needs to talk, or I'll talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u113	Okay, so either you close tonight or you talk tomorrow. So we're going to leave in a reasonable time. Here, Mr Maniotis, you have the floor for three minutes at the concession of colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u114	Mr President, I would like to make three very brief comments on the position of the Minister. The Minister celebrated the excellent creditworthiness of PPC and I, in front of me here, have the conclusion, the assessment of the "STANDARD & POOR'S" of April 2017, which assesses PPC as CCC -, i.e. negative supervision, risk of bankruptcy. We are talking about the company, which had the greatest credit rating in Greece until 2014. And let's say that was in April 2017, Minister, that you consented to. Just now, on 28-11-17, i.e. just a few months ago, I saw what STADARD & POOR'S appreciates. Negative outlook. Confirmation of the CCC -. Banks to refinance PPC for the first time want guarantees in the company's history. Third comment: According to the same international rating agency, the company's EBITDA, Minister, in 2018, will be reduced by 50% compared to 2016 and by just 1.2 billion. I shall submit the relevant report for the minutes. Secondly, you referred, Minister, to the inability to operate a natural gas plant in Megalopolis because of some problems. I'm going to testify for the Minutes this chart, which I'm going to show you. It is an IPTO diagram from the unit's experimental function. For many days in 2015, 2016 and 2017, according to IPTO data, the plant operates and supplies the power system of the country with up to 850 MW and most of the days operating at 700 to 750 MW. So you have to answer the little lie you said, it wasn't too big. The design was to make the extension to Antirios and Patras in 2016. You said a little lie. You said it was until 2020. The design was until 2016 to pass the probe's trial period. But now you're taking it, instead of ending in 2016, in 2019. So you have to tell us what you did. Finally, Mr President, a very brief comment. I will return to my normal speech tomorrow. I want the SYRIZA colleagues to hear it. The "small" PPC provided 30% of production, 30% of loans, 30% of wage costs, 30% of customers and all of which PPC and the national economy would receive 5.5 billion euros. With the government model, which is a normal sellout, SYRIZA colleagues, the government is doing the following: It gives 50% of customers by 2020 at a rate of zero for 50% of customers, that is to say it is reduced by 50% PPC's turnover by 2020. Secondly, with the bill we have here, PPC sells, sells, without a minimum price of three very strong units and an empty. For the first time, there is a competition without a minimum price. Finally, Mr President, I would remind the SYRIZA colleagues who have voted for the budget and that in the 2018 budget the government is committed to selling, in 2018, 17% of PPC and will receive a price of EUR 100 million in accordance with the Tsipra - Kammenos government budget. After that, I expect the Minister tomorrow to answer these three very specific complaints so that tomorrow we can talk about...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u115	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u116	... the issue, the liberalisation of the energy market and national strategic planning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u117	Minister, do you want to answer tonight or tomorrow?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u118	Tonight. I'll just say a few words.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u119	You have the floor, with your relative tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u120	Thank you. I am also aware of the estimates of the 'STANDARD & POOR'S'. So I invite you to tell me whether the loan of PPC, which followed these valuations, was made in accordance with the specifications of "STANDARD & POOR'S" or otherwise. If it happened differently, it means the market, the banks, they loaned PPC...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u121	The Greek banks? Yeah?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u122	Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u123	Please. Now will you find out more banks that don't exist? PPC's lending is EIT, European Investment Bank, and Greek banks 90%. The banks, therefore, have borrowed not once, twice PPC since, in terms that - I repeat for the most part - interest rates are below 4%. Therefore, the assessments of ‘STANDARD & POOR'S’ are respected. I have three other valuations of different, different houses, and we have the latest study of McKENZIE, I am happy to give it to you, which values the company's borrowing capacity on the basis of its medium-term planning. Let me let you know. I think that's what the banks have been using lately. Secondly - I have already answered - the restructuring of PPC's loans takes place in an unprecedented way, which means that only one company, which has the ability to restructure its loans in this way, is making progress, and I repeat, the extension of the bonds which expire at three years' time, the rescheduling of part of it and various other tools that the present has recently used. Now for IPTO and in 2016 the Peloponnese Plan. In 2016, it did not exist, because it had not purchased the piece of Patras, the university, or much more, so it was a no-existent project. The IPTO first time it puts a realistic plan - he in my hands - says clearly that the project will end in 2020 and after a lot of efforts last year, the project will be completed in 2019. There was no other design. I'm sorry. For 17% of PPC's will wait. You're gonna wait too long. I don't know, it's a matter, we'll talk about it. For now, you need to suffice on them. You sold all PPC, 30%, 17% and IPTO. Today, after so many years, IPTO is 51% public and we sell 10% of PPC's production potential. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u124	Mr Balommenakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for accepting the amendment. It is certain that it will resolve a number of practical questions of workers, and indeed it was their request. Ladies and gentlemen, sometimes our controversy here is hypothetical. That is, it says, the New Democracy, for example, that if it had not lost the elections in September 2015, we would have come out of the memoranda immediately. We say one time that Hardouvelis's mail would put us deeper into the memorials, etc. Here, there's a difference. On these issues we are discussing there are facts. As is true, for example, the law on “little” PPC. The fact is the 2016 law that overthrowed that regulation and, of course, today's bill. The comparison of the correctness of the two policies, which are presented, is therefore a simple process. I have noticed that with no exception, nor with Mr Manatis, the exception, and I will say why, the New Democracy colleagues did not specifically refer to the famous'small' plan. General and only genealogies. If you see the Minutes, you'll find that. The only one who put forward some detail and some claim that it was better that the bill was the rapporteur for the Democratic Alliance, but who also said a point of order, that this contract would pass through the Committee on Parliament's Production and Trade, which is important, but is not the master of the bill. Mr. Maniatis, if I understood correctly, on the matter of money cases he did too. I've never seen anyone get certain revenues from that famous plan. Cases and this in the sphere of imagination. On the contrary, the argument on the government side is clear and unequivocal. If that plan had been implemented, it would have dissolved PPC and delivered to private hands specific things. Since the news of the time - I replicate and would like to read it to you - which would clearly reflect the previous discussions, it was not just the percentage, it is and how the percentage was translated. Three lignite plants with a total output of 900 MW, which it denotes. A permit to build a 450 MW plant, which it also namees. Six hydroelectric plants 902,6 MW. A gas unit 476. Golden lignite mines with about 320 million tonnes of coal and, of course, privatization of IPTO. This reality needs to be overshadowed today by the Civic Opposition with the genealogies that we have spoken about. Indeed, if we see in a broader context the initial choice of the Samara - Venizelos government to adopt the PPC partitioning plan, which the lenders had then submitted, we clearly recognise its ideological stigma, liberalism, market deposition in extreme form. This was a political option which, if we had not overthrown it, would have resulted in PPC talking today as we know it, possibly in a protracted time. Reflecting that regulation, the government has consistently made two key political commitments. The first to attempt within the historically unprecedented stress and extortion conditions to negotiate in such a way as to achieve the best possible result, mutatis mutandis, and the second to maintain the business at such a level that it continues to be a strong factor in the energy game while keeping its public and public character. Today he puts in the Greek people's judgment whether or not he succeeded. It gives full honesty and detailed account of the country's international obligations, those stemming from the Union's policies. It has not been heard here if there was another option since the European Court of Justice ruling, and it is understood within the existing framework, because there are always solutions which sometimes seem easier to imagine. It does not prevent us that many times environmental obligations are used as instruments for imposing policies that favour strong economies and large economic groups and that they sometimes play a major role in this direction. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the Vice-President of Parliament, Ms. MARios GEORGIADIS.]] However, I have not heard what is being proposed from the New Democracy side. Do we ignore the European Court of Justice's decision? The solution reached came after negotiation and, as far as we were concerned, it did not start with the dogma that better solutions are impossible, but with the certainty that there is always room for better solutions, provided that you prepare them carefully and defend them with courage and perseverance. The examples mentioned by the majority rapporteur are typical of the PPA and the Greek one. Of course and we do not triumphantly simply claim that we have made the best possible solution. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I conclude, Mr President, by saying that the Greek society wants PPC to be strong and pioneered and to a dominant position in the Greek energy market. She wants to move with a look in the future, to respond to her volume and accumulated know-how positive to the new challenges, to extend to new fields of activity and profitability. Its leadership has said today that it is moving in this direction and the information of the days and what the Minister has given us today are talking about important initiatives that imply extroversion and a clear improvement in its position. The Government's commitment and task is to ensure the best possible resources for defending its rights, which are social wealth and workers' rights in the company. This obligation is best served by this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u126	Thank you very much. Mrs Evangelia Karakosta has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u127	I, too, welcome the colleagues who are in the Chamber, but also everyone who listens to us. I shall begin, beyond what we have to say about the bill, with a few comments. The majority of the opposition parties protested because we pass this bill as a matter of urgency. And despite the fact that they were in great agony, I see an empty room here. It is therefore a good thing not to express themselves, given that there is not even the whole of the rapporteurs. Let me begin with a few comments that have been made - and we must clarify them to the Greek people - by many opposition rapporteurs on the 'I do not pay' movement. And I don't know how many people know of movements or get a phrase or if they see all the requests, but I have a duty to clarify that none of this movement said "I don't pay PPC". You should remember that the PPC account had been entered into the PPC accounts. The fight of that movement was to pay PPC to the bank code and not to pay HIS. The result was to press your own government, so that the ENPI is paid to taxis, that there is a possibility for settlement and some groups to be excluded from it and that a better landscape for weak groups can be created. So each thing has its turn. Honestly, I recognise that many of you do not know about movements, but it is good, even late, to learn about it. Mr Skrekas read a few texts on what he said, for example, our Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras, while we were opposition. So it reminded us that Alexis Tsipras told us that "those who come to speculate...". That's right, he said. And now we are not accepting investors who simply come to speculate. We are accepting investors - and we are looking for this in all areas, as you have seen with all the previous negotiations we have made in various areas - so that from which investments have been made so far - what you have signed and had to continue to gain on points. It also read us two pieces of the draft law on equal access to all sources of energy, including domestic lignite, to 'consistent with the European demand for the liberalisation of the electricity market in terms of free competition'. He continued by saying that "the conditions are created for the participation of more powerful international players in the Greek market and this will lead to lowering consumer energy prices". Apart from accepting the continued refusal that 'there may be no reductions in consumer energy' to what does the New Democracy disagree with regard to the demand for the liberalisation of the electricity market and free competition or the involvement of most powerful international players in the Greek market? I wonder. Of course, too many have supported PPC's "small" as the previous colleague said, but it is clear that PPC's "small" intended to be sold 22% of PPC's total production potential, 21.4% of its lignite potential, 18% of its natural gas and 26.3% of its hydroelectric potential, which we are currently escaping. It is one of these negotiations in which we have done very well and have not taken advantage of your proposals. And since the time has come to say that we are shaping a new, interesting and intermediate landscape, given that our government - and none of you disagrees - is saying that we need to move towards the full exploitation of renewable energy sources and, above all, that our country should take more energy in this direction. Also, this law we're going through tomorrow is very important in how it handles the workers, that is, how it settles. And with today's corrections made by our Minister, accepting good and substantial comments made by bodies and colleagues during the committee, it comes to guarantee for a very long time and with the best collective agreements for workers, a part that we always support in all areas. It will be good for the opposition - it has reasons to oppose it, I do not question it - to rely on serious elements and not on the 'will' of destruction, which so far has led it to be constantly disproved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Karakosta. Mr Bukokouros from New Democracy has the floor for five minutes, with relative tolerance. As far as I am concerned, it is also the last speaker for tonight, unless one of my colleagues wishes to be placed or one of the Ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u129	I would like to take the floor to say what amendments are accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u130	Yes, Minister. Do you want to shut down or do you want to say it before Mr. Kasapidis?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u131	In the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u132	Mr. Buquoir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I am not sure that this is another delusion of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. I am close to the point that rather an organized deception plan of the electorate has been managed by PPC and, more generally, by your energy policy. I do not, of course, want to recall and have any value what the current Prime Minister and then the Chief of Police Response said, but also the top SYRIZA officials on criminal policy, on investors who will lose their money if they invest in this sector in Greece and many more. It is not the only aspect of your policy where you promised, but you were thinking, and you are finally doing it today. Reliability zero! From the "little" PPC, Mr. Minister, go to half PPC and finally go to the platter and bad PPC. How do you get there? Go and have completely deceived PPC. First of all, I would like to tell you that the company's stock market value has decreased by 80% over your days. The due, Minister, from 1 billion euro in 2014 has reached the end of 2017 to 3 billion euros. This is the result of management errors. In addition, you have sold beer rather than - let me speak - the IPTO. You grant 50% of PPC's clientele without any financial consideration until 2020 and now you grant PPC's fillet. You know, many times in the structure of a business doesn't matter the percentage, but the part chosen to be dived. What units is your government selling today, Minister? Three units and one licence. It is three units with the lowest variable cost, with the required permits at a time of rehabilitation from lignite to operate up to the last time limit set by the obligations. They are units from which you remove staff to add it to PPC already secured. And, of course, the credit obligations of these units are, of course, transferred to PPC, which you have really kneeled at. You don't just sell the fillet. Sell the heart of the fillet, free of any weight. This, of course, is a bonus to investors. At the same time for the first time in the history of reforms, a minimum price is not set. In other words, given that all Europe is going to a time of rehab from lignite, Minister, you will see such a low price that you will rub your eyes. This, however, proves that there is no energy planning for the country. Rehabilitation from lignite is an obligation for the whole of Europe and Greece. The margins are as narrow as they go. But you don't tell us what will follow next, how PPC will be competitive, how there will be a competitive energy production and marketing environment. You are not telling us, you do not even clarify this with today's bill. So your policies turn PPC into a business without tomorrow, as well as your general policies turn Greece into a country without tomorrow in my view. In the end, apart from the country's energy adequacy, Minister, because the economy without energy supplies does not exist - I would like you to tell us through the policies you are implementing, what will be the direct benefit to the Greek consumer. It's not specified anywhere. And I want to tell you that today electricity prices can be above - below the various tariffs, but the average Greek household after eight years of crisis is getting even more. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In a minute, Mr President, I will conclude by saying this, Minister, that there is a category of small and medium-sized consumers who use electricity for the good of heating either because they are not close to natural gas networks or because they are in areas that are unable to source conventional fuel. Prices of the UOO, Minister, are ejecting the electricity prices to the heights. I would remind you that you come from a government that, apart from other battles, you also fought for the mango. These people, therefore, while having the heat accumulators as a unique alternative to heating, come to pay on invoices in the first quarter of 2018, Minister, accounts of EUR 1,400 and EUR 1,500 with monthly revenue of EUR 900. So many forecasts were available for various tariffs in PPC. That's why there couldn't be any predictions? So we are voting against the bill, not because the reforms are very different from those we, Minister. It's about the same category. And I want to be honest. Our own reforms brought money to PPC's funds, but your reforms do not bring anything at all. That's our difference. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr. Bukkaro. Mr Kasapidis has the floor for five minutes with relative tolerance, since he is the last and the Minister will close, who had asked for some amendments to be tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr President. Jesus Christ, many years. Minister, I hope you're too old for your celebration.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u136	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u137	I do not know whether the Government's undertaking, ladies and gentlemen, on the structural measures for access to lignite and on the further opening up of the wholesale electricity market meets the title, but also on the content that at least the government wants to declare, namely, that it is done in a proper and fair manner. However, I will make a simpler approach, as we have learned, Mr Minister, there in western Macedonia and in Kosanis, where there is an education from our small years. We grew up with lignite, grew up with PPC, wanting and not familiar with it in terms and actions. Now, where all these activities and actions related to PPC and energy are concerned, we have become more familiar with each other and deepened in this regard. I therefore believe that the draft law you are trying to do is a part of an action that you say you are obliged to do on the basis of a court ruling - and I will say that too. However, what is disturbing and worrying and is not justified is that it is done without an integrated plan, a plan of long-term energy planning that has, of course, been a matter for many years. But neither have you done anything about this, so that you can incorporate into this plan and this effort to open up electricity, which concerns the production of lignite from lignite. This therefore raises many questions and concerns in the local communities of the lignite regions for their future. How long will the activity of these units associated with thousands of jobs last? The energy grid in Western Macedonia has been employing at least five to six thousand jobs for decades. So as you are trying to make this plan, which you are now bringing us as a draft law, without this long, comprehensive energy planning, it seems that PPC is weakening. And that's why? Because you say they are not the best units, but, Minister, unfortunately they are the best units. It would be much more honest and more honest to say 'all right, we're trying to do what we're pressing', as you say, 'and we want to achieve it'. Tell me, what is a better unit than Melite I, which is the most modern one right now before Ptolemaida 5, which is still built or which other unit has lower variable costs than Megalopolis units. Therefore, as you do your efforts, by exempting these units from certain administrative and lending burdens, the remaining part of PPC that will remain public in nature, creates a problem of sustainability and competitiveness and PPC that will remain and have its jurisdiction over existing units. Other units will be made easier to access the network and the system. Thus, those who live in PPC will have a serious problem in terms of penetrating the system, but also in terms of operating and maintenance costs. These units, as I said before, are linked to thousands of jobs. In the new units you only guarantee for six years, as you say, jobs. So what happens next? However, the rest of the jobs that will be left in PPC, which seems to be not competitive with PPC, what will be done? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, let me have some more time, because it is a matter that burns us down. So given that some units will remain in our area, what time will they complete their presence through this design you're saying? So if this timetable is in the foreseeable future, what will happen? Is there not another thought, another plan to replace these lost jobs with equivalent jobs or equivalent economic sizes from a design, which I said, unfortunately, does not exist today in Parliament in general? We should first discuss it, agree and commit ourselves as factions that we will not leave the mercy of the god of Western Macedonia who has given the country so many years. The value of the electricity that western Macedonia has given to its eyes is 120 billion. The return of resources and payroll and jobs in the region to the local development resource is only at 300 million. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I am also making a suggestion to you, which is worth the effort of seeing some government at some point, a minister. Let us see, then, what the result of the local development resource in jobs was and how all the managers who have spent the previous years up to today have managed the money. Before you make this provision that you said you will, which increased by 0.2% the rate of yield for lignite in local society, is worth the effort to assess if the money that has been given in the past has been taken place. I challenge you and urge you to put some safeguards in place so that money is not wasted, as in the past, on unnecessary actions that have not taken place but have a specific direction in relation to the creation of new jobs and a value-added, mainly labour and more generally economic, in western Macedonia, because that is what we need. You also said that you were following the judgment of the European Court of Justice. Minister, lignite and PPC for western Macedonia are the largest employer in our region. For the country, of course, it may also be difficult for other societies to understand, because they are not directly linked to these activities. For example, because it will go cheap electricity to Crete by subjugating the cable, we will pay the marble once more. The pollutants live in us in western Macedonia, as do all the intense interventions. We pay the same current as our fellow citizens will pay all over Greece, while in Crete we will actually grow in better economic, environmental and more general terms. We have nothing more, even though we are giving part of our inner ears. You are therefore following the judgment of the European Court of Justice. I would remind you that in another product, which is the largest employer in the country, in the mountainous Greece and in the Greek country, which was guaranteed beyond the European Regulation and by a decision of the European Court of Justice in 2002, which permanently and irrevocably held the country of production and origin of feta - I am talking about feta cheese - for our country, you did not follow the same decision, Minister, in the CETA Agreement and you and your Government, both in Canada and in South Africa. We must therefore compare two data on which you claim to be following the judgment of the Court of Justice: other measures and other weights or 'all card' your approach to this matter too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u138	Mr. Comrade, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u139	I shall conclude, Mr President. In short, what we are asking of western Macedonia and Kozani, is at last to say your sincere intentions and design, if you have, in terms of the future and the prospect of the country's energy region, according to your own plans. Will the country's energy periphery remain? Will her identity be ensured? Will the jobs currently associated with lignite be ensured with other technologies relating to lignite, but also other energy activities, because we have both education and infrastructure and the prospect, but also the need, if you like, to continue to remain in the energy field? But that is not what you are telling us, which is causing reasonable concerns. That is why both your friends and fans in western Macedonia are abducing you and accusing you - and the district commander and mayor and all the trade union representatives - that the bill is disastrous. In other words, we do not have to say anything about the opposition, which you should object by arguing that we are wrong. What do you have to say to all of these people in the local society who disagree with this effort that you do? You didn't give an answer here. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Mr. Kasapidis. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u141	First of all, I would like to say something about accepting the amendments. It should be clear that the amendments, supported by the ministers, with specific numbers of 182,183 and 184, are accepted. I don't want to place myself on other issues. As far as energy planning and the post-German era are concerned, we will discuss them for a long time tomorrow. I just want to make two corrections as to how the energy market works. The Energy Exchange Act has already been passed. So it's not true we don't know where we're going. We know where we're going. In 2019 – since mid 2019 – will fully implement the so-called ‘target model’, which is the established way of operation in most European countries. This will also apply to Greece. So as far as the market is concerned, we know how it will first be shaped for electricity and then extended to natural gas. The same applies to the gas market. Retail has already been liberated, and wholesale has already been liberated. So that's where we know the rules of the game. Regulated markets will be both. So we know. As far as this part is concerned, it is inaccurate that we do not know where we are going. Your comments on the protection of weak households were inaccurate. We changed the method of calculating the NGO. The OHIMs are now calculated, not as in the past with the steep steps that had drive consumers crazy in winter, but with a straight-line progressive relationship that is very friendly to them. We have set the social invoice. All those who have received dividends and those who are in social solidarity have received a huge 70% discount. We also built the fund for those who lose the social invoice, due to a lack of payment, in order to be able to resort to a fund that will pay their bills in order to reconnect them. So our commitment to "a housewife with a handkerchief" must have made it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, before we finish this evening's sitting, I would like to inform you that there are seventeen speakers left for tomorrow's sitting, and seven of the eight parliamentary representatives, since Mr Teddy has placed himself. It is also the secondary speeches, the speeches of the Ministers and, if there is, a political leader who would like to place himself. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-24-S1-commons.u143	With the consent of the House at 21.59' the meeting for tomorrow, Wednesday, 25 April 2018 at 10.00, on the subject of this House's work, is to continue the debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy: "Structural measures for access to lignite and for the further opening up of the wholesale electricity market and other provisions".
