ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e185	The representatives Karin S. Woldseth and Per Arne Olsen, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. From 17 June to 19 June, for participation as a member of the Nordic Council delegation, in a conference in Dublin, an application has been submitted by the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Representatives for Permit to Vigdis Giltun. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Erlend Wiborg, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e211	Erlend Wiborg is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e217	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office for Stortinget's meetings this week. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President proposes Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen is unanimously elected president of this week’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e227	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. One to five are being debated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e287	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to four lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. The President considers that the possibility for the President of an unlimited number of observations is valid only in relation to the matter for which he is the rapporteur. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e300	It is true, as the President says, that there are several issues, but I will focus on the necessary legislative changes that are linked to government proposals and that are dealt with in the Storting in the context of the revised national budget. The opinion also deals with a number of other proposals from the minority, which I believe they will explain themselves. The vast majority of changes in the field of taxation proposed by the government have the full agreement of the Committee, but in a few areas there is disagreement. I want to say something about these in the following. One of the issues of conflict in the setting concerns the petroleum tax and restrictions on the so-called free income. As you know, the government has proposed to reduce the rate of exemption from 7,5 pst. to 5.5 pst. As is known in practice, the exemption is an additional favourable depreciation option for investments on the base. This proposal thus reduces the total revenue from 30 pst. until 22 pst. The resources on Norwegian pedestal belong to the people of Norway. Petroleum taxes shall ensure that, when these values are taken up, the rent on land – the extraordinary return – is due to the owner, and thus the owner is the Norwegian people, the Norwegian community. At the same time, it's important to have a system that facilitates, so that we get investments where resources are actually taken up. These considerations — i.e. an investment-friendly tax system on the one hand, but, at the same time, a tax system where the rent on land belongs to the community — are not as many countries that have managed to combine just as much as we do here in Norway. But we've done that, and the moderate tightening of the income, which the majority of the committee assumes the Storting does not change this picture. In our view, this is a minor adjustment to a bias that has caused the state to cover over time too much of the investment costs on the base. After the proposal, companies must take a slightly higher proportion of the investment costs. Stability and foreseeable framework conditions are, and have been, a strength for the Norwegian petroleum tax system. The main features of this system have been fixed since 1992 and continue to do so. I want to add that this stability is very important. But stability itself cannot stand in the way of change – in the light of developments in the sector and improvements in the system. Even after this moderate, cautious approach, which there is reason to believe gets a majority – I'm going to get back to it – there will still be a very investment-friendly tax regime on Norwegian pedestal. The proposal now to be implemented is well known, discussed and analysed by several governments, but it is only now that it is implemented. The majority of the Committee therefore considers that the change over time, together with the growth package proposed by the government for the mainland, will contribute to increased cost awareness in industry and that it will also contribute over time to a more balanced development of the Norwegian economy. I have noticed through the hearing, in the media and through the suspension we are now debating, that there seems to be broad support for the measures proposed. The fact that all lots, with the exception of the Advance Party, are behind the proposal creates predictability and security around the petroleum tax system. That's good and important. Finally, I would like to add some comments to another proposal on which there is disagreement. It is a matter of exemption from the professional secrecy of lawyers in the field of taxation. The majority of the Committee supports the proposed amendment to the rules and justifies this with the importance of preventing taxable persons and companies from being controlled by transferring funds or keeping them in accounts of a lawyer with professional secrecy. In order to determine the correct tax and levy, it is central that the tax authorities are provided with information on money transactions and transfers of funds. The authorities must be provided with information about who is behind them and who owns the amounts that are transferred. The majority of the Committee therefore agrees that lawyers and other third parties who have such information should provide that information to the tax authorities when they so require, without prejudice to the obligation of professional secrecy. This is not a consensus. I assume that the opposition will explain its opposition to the proposal later on. With this I recommend the setting in the two mentioned cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e326	The attitudes we deal with affect a number of tax matters. I'm not going to discuss everyone, but I'm going to go into some of them in detail. The Progress Party agrees with the government that the community owns the resources on Norwegian pedestal and that revenue is important for the long-term financing of the welfare society. That long-term well-being despite these revenues is not sustainable is a discussion we will return to many times in the years that come. However, although the resources on the Norwegian base are important for the community, there is no direct correlation between increased tax conditions and increased tax revenues. The Progress Party notes that the government believes that the tax tightening introduced for the free income of the petroleum tax will increase the tax revenue from the petroleum industry by 70 billion. kr in the years 2013-2050. Income calculations 37 years in advance should be careful. It's a plan economy. The government describes the tax austerity almost as a gift package with no negative ringing effects: 70 billion. kr in without consequences for the industry? Nope. Moderate tightening, to which the chairman of the committee referred? Nope. The aim of the exemption is to cover investments with normal profitability from special taxes. The tax change will reduce the profitability of future projects and will affect marginal fields. This will affect activity levels for many years to come in time both in terms of tail production and increased extraction. 2 billion. kr in the year of increased tax will be marked. What about the stability of the tax system? I note that the committee leader pointed out that it was stability, but I suppose you can't change the regime and say that it's stability all the time. That's change, and that's something that the industry will notice. Maybe you should do a professional investigation before making that kind of change. In a majority comment, the government parties comment that the tax will contribute to a more balanced development of the Norwegian economy. But is that an independent objective? What, then, is the point of the Minister of Industry’s areas of activity — which means exactly the opposite of a balanced development in the Norwegian economy? Or does the government have a different definition of what balanced development in the Norwegian economy is? Norway is a small country, and we don't have the conditions to become world champions in total. Our young knowledge talents need to be integrated into industries that develop advanced solutions and new technologies — and revenues. Petroleum industry is doing just that. The government proposes to amend the law so that lawyers can provide the tax authorities with information about their clients’ transfers of funds, deposits and debts and who are party to transfers. The Progress Party agrees that tax authorities should have transparency, but we are sceptical that lawyers are required to break their professional secrecy – a scepticism we share with many authorities. The professional secrecy of lawyers should not be impaired ‘for the greater good’. In January, a selection was set up with a mandate to make a broad assessment of the professional secrecy of lawyers. The Progress Party believes that we should let the sample work out before concluding. The Progress Party opposes the government's proposals and, together with the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left, promotes an alternative where we ask the government to come forward with «proposals whereby the client accounts of lawyers are handled in line with the proposal of the Association and so that exemptions from the obligation of professional secrecy are not necessary». The Progress Party promotes a number of tax proposals in our alternative state budget. We are not going to re-fight these in the revision of the budget, but we are going to have to add them to the state budget for 2014 and 2015. Most people will notice that instead of a red-green government with bans, restrictions, injunctions, regulations, fees and penalties, a new era of positive instruments and tax incentives will be launched that will encourage desired behaviour in a number of areas. Tax exemptions for collective cards and training cards, removal of inheritance fees, individual pension savings and annual savings of NOK 40000, improved BSU scheme, improved wreckage arrangements, better conditions for the tax FUNN, removal of employers’ fees for apprentices, to name a few. In this way, people will be encouraged to take responsibility for their own life situation instead of receiving passive public benefits. In terms of tax FUNN, we propose to increase the own R & D limit to 8 million. SEK and external R & D to SEK 12 million. kr. We will remove the maximum hourly rate rule of 530 kroner and remove the rules that the costs of staff and indirect costs for the number of hours for own employees are limited to a maximum of 1850 hours per year. Furthermore, we want to establish a system that indexes the amounts of own R & D carried out and purchased in the SkattenFUNN scheme each year. We will build up under the will by introducing tax incentives that make volunteering less dependent on public transfers. We therefore propose, together with the other opposition parties, to increase tax deductions for gifts to non-governmental organisations to NOK 25 000 for individuals and DKK 100000 for businesses. Furthermore, we propose that so-called masterless inheritances be extended to non-governmental organisations. I see that time is running out of me. Then I will conclude here and address all the proposals that the Progress Party is promoting alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e360	The representative Tybring-Gjedde has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e363	The revised national budget is just that – it is a revision of the main budget. We're not going to repeat all the main steps, especially on the tax side, but we're going to take some important steps where we're going to be in a hurry, and I'm going to get back to that a little bit. The rise in the revised national budget was perhaps the most special in the entire budget this year. An urgent press conference was convened on 5 May at the same time as the end of its national meeting. It was tax measures that were to be presented against the two-way division of the Norwegian economy, and it was the forest industry crisis that lay as a background. But when we saw the measures, we wondered why such a hurry, because none of the tax penalties would take effect until 2014, with the exception of the change in the revenue from oil companies, which was introduced immediately. The debate on corporate taxes, depreciation and tax FUNN is postponed until the fall when the state budget comes. That's where the Right might think it's a little bit more urgent, but as I said, I'll come back to that. However, in the case of oil, there has been a broad consensus – which was also the subject of the case-rapporteur – about having favourable conditions in the North Sea, and that is still going to be the case. But we're questioning the way you did this. It is clear that stability and predictability are crucial for as long-term investments as what we are talking about in the North Sea. The government has explained everything with, among other things, The development of costs in the Norwegian economy, thus also indirectly blaming oil for it, while the development of costs in the Norwegian economy has shrunk steadily and staggered upwards under the red-green government, from about two quarters. 20 pst. to 70 pst. over our closest trading partners, and you haven't given it a lot of attention until now. Then you have the cyclical adjustment argument. It is also a bad idea for such long-term investments. This is about creating a solid platform for an enterprise that is extremely important to Norway. We must recognise that it is the oil that has made us capable of being carried through the crisis that Europe has now experienced. That's our sovereign position in terms of oil revenue and the role of the state there. I now register, among other things: in the media image of the weekend that there may be a completely different economic situation in Norway. From this point of view, the measure could now simply come to the top of the whole wave that the oil has brought us through. That is why we propose that we follow very closely what is happening, and perhaps come back to Stortinget quite quickly with an assessment of the consequences of the change in income. So a little comment on the confidentiality of lawyers. We do not think it is necessary to deal with the obligation of professional secrecy, but this government has its own ability to tease all the interests of taxpayers' legal certainty. That's what you've had ever since the Tax Exclusion Committee came. I find it quite remarkable that it is necessary to deal with the obligation of professional secrecy when there are actually proposals here. Both the Data Protection Agency and others react in the consultation round, and the Association of Lawyers makes a very concrete proposal on how to deal with this without compromising the obligation of professional secrecy, because we all agree that there should be full insight into movements, and the tax authorities must have access to information. So there we have an alternative proposal with the other bourgeois parties. In the case of other tax rules, we believe that it is urgent with regard to depreciation. We have had that in all the alternative budgets with start-up letters, and we repeat that. We are also making proposals on the Tax Fund, which we have repeatedly repeated, and we find it quite remarkable that the government is playing solely on expectations of what is going to happen to the harvest. The BSU is another area where we also propose strong improvements, in line with what we have had in our alternative budgets all the time. And then I'm going to use the last half minute I have to mention that Document No. The 8th proposal on ROS and ROT tax deductions, for which I am the case rapporteur. It's been treated a number of times in this magnification period, and it's where the batches stand. It's a relatively expensive priority if we're going to go into it. The Minister of Finance's letter to the Committee reveals that in Sweden it now costs 16 billion. kr per year in lost tax proceeds. This is a very substantial change, and the Committee is united, apart from the Progress Party, that we are sticking to the system we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e384	The representative might want to make some suggestions that the Right has alone or with others other than the Advance Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e387	I do. I'm dealing with the suggestions that the right hand side is on its own.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e392	The representative of Gunnar Gundersen has taken up the suggestions he made.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e395	I ask for the floor to comment on the oil tax. First of all, I note that there is broad agreement on the proposals put forward by the government in the tax field in the revised version, with the exception of the adjustment in the scope of deduction on the base. What is specifically proposed is that companies themselves have to take a slightly larger share of the investment costs on the base than they have previously done and as stated in the comments of the majority: ‘This is a minor adjustment to a bias that has caused the State to cover too much of the investment costs on the base.’ This is one of several steps that is now being taken, which is absolutely necessary in terms of the development we have had in the two-way division of the Norwegian economy. The oil sector has been, and is, a major price driver, and has been a contributor to the cost pressures in the Norwegian economy – not least in terms of wage costs. It has been, and is, a major challenge for us in terms of the other industry, especially the one that is exposed to competition in relation to the international economy. There have been many debates about this in the Chamber, and there has been a consensus that it is a challenge that needs to be addressed. SV fully agrees with the grips taken with regard to the socket. It is a minor adjustment, but not least very necessary. I note that in the speech by the representative, Mr Gundersen, he raises doubts as to whether this is a reality – whether the petroleum sector represents that challenge for the Norwegian economy. He shakes his head, and I have then misunderstood him. But there is a large number of the process in terms of this grip that is now taking place in the oil industry. That's why I have a question. The minority comments say that because of the fact that this grip has already been advertised, you agree. But you do a big number of that there hasn't been a broader investigation about it. It also makes me ask questions to the Christian People's Party and the representative Syversen who will have the floor after me: Do you agree with this approach? Environmentalist in the Christian People's Party, the representative of Ropstad, just after this was presented, said that it was a joyous day, and this had its full support from the Christian People's Party. But the comments give the impression that you are reluctant to do this. One wants a broader investigation and a larger consultation round. I just want to stress that we in SV fully agree with the grip that is being taken. It is necessary to mitigate the cost pressure in the oil sector. It's now an investment volume of over 200 billion. kr, and the forward projections indicate that it will continue to increase. Therefore, hopefully what is now happening will help you to get a flare, and to extend the investment further in time than with the pressure that has been up to now. That's why it's my challenge to the Seven, who's going to have the word after me.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e413	The next speaker is the representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa – then the representative Hans Olav Syversen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e417	Through the revised 2013 national budget, the government has presented several important measures to strengthen the competitiveness of Norwegian industry. Both the business growth package and the forest package are very important. I note that the opposition believes that some of the proposals are so good that they will be available until 1 July of this year instead of starting from the financial year 2014. It's understandable, but one must also find a defensive intrusion. It is reasonable to put the whole package into action from the same date, so that lost tax revenue can be seen in the context of the budget — under the aegis of increased revenue. The proposal for changes in the petroleum tax will provide additional revenue, but this is money that, according to the rule of action, goes to the State pension fund abroad and benefits us all in a longer perspective. The central party believes that the government's proposal to reduce special tax exemptions, so that the oil companies have to take a slightly greater responsibility for collecting investment costs, is reasonable. To all intents and purposes, we must take a signal from the sector seriously and listen to the oil companies, and we must follow developments closely. I thought the case-speaker Mikalsen has done quite well for that matter. The central party otherwise believes that there is a link between the measures proposed by the government. We talk a lot about doubling of Norwegian industry, where the oil sector has strong growth, while much of our traditional mainland industry wears. It must be right to put in place measures that both contribute to ensuring a more equivalent competitiveness between these industries, and also raise awareness of the costs in the oil sector. Let me also give you a short review of a couple of minority suggestions. In the red-green government period, we have given substantial relief to the inheritance fee by raising the bottom deduction. The inheritance fee has been reduced by 1.5 billion. kr since we took over from the Bondevik II administration. Now the opposition, with the exception of the Christian People's Party, wants to go further by removing the entire inheritance fee. In the Central Party, we believe that there should be additional increases in the bottom of the inheritance fee, but that it is not impractical that large income in the form of inheritance should continue to be subject to a certain amount of taxation. The left proposes removing low VAT on food and replacing it with VAT exemptions on organic products, fruit and vegetables. The left-hand side of this is that families of children who spend a lot of money on basic foods, such as bread, milk, cheese, meat and fish, will get a big extra charge through a VAT increment of 10 pst. Price reductions on fruit, green and organic products are good, but it is not possible to defend the fact that the bill for this will be passed on to those who already have the highest cost of food. In this debate we are also discussing a few proposals for representatives. Let me comment on the change in the VAT compensation law. There have been several cases where municipalities have encouraged the establishment of housing cooperatives for disabled people in combination with municipal responsibility for the operation of housing. The centre party thinks this can be a good way to establish cooperation solutions between the disabled, their relatives and municipal service providers. We are pleased that we will now have a review of the compensation legislation, as the Ministry of Finance has previously warned. We are seeing this review in the national budget for 2014. Law on compensation for value added tax shall create a level playing field between private and public providers of community care services. In the view of the Centre Party, this should also be the case when municipalities and relatives conclude cooperation agreements on the construction and operation of care facilities. Let me say that there are several other proposals in the revision that I have now not commented on, among other things. the situation in the housing sector, one of which today also proposes fiscal intervention for secondary buildings. I believe this is also a theme that we will come back to Friday.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e438	This is actually a taste of the revised debate, so on our side, we have to limit ourselves to some of the biggest tax changes proposed by the government. Most speakers have mentioned the changes in the taxation of the petroleum industry. As stated in the suspension, we support the government's conclusion, but we have had – and have – comments on how the process has been. The chairman of the Committee and the rapporteur spoke about predictability and security for this type of investment, that it has been a great advantage for Norway, and we agree with that. We are therefore not so enthusiastic about the procedure the government has used in this case, which we believe has not contributed to the predictability and security that we depend on and which gives Norway a comparative advantage in the industry as such. Like the Right, we ask the government to assess the effect of this until the ordinary government budget is presented to see if the effects can make some adjustments. So to the representative Geir-Ketil Hansen who wondered if we were brilliantly satisfied, or if we were meant to be. There's two relationships here. The representative of Ropstad has expressed his opinion on the development of the Castberg field itself. According to the government's decision, the reason for his – what to say – outburst of joy was that the development of the Castberg field would be awaited. This was, in Ropstad's opinion, a joyous day, because Statoil had chosen a concept where they would not go for electrification from land. Otherwise, it's a concept that the Council of State had presented as an opportunity for the Storting, but that never happened. The joy is that through the postponement we may have another opportunity to see if there will be electrification from land for that expansion project. Now we can see – and I think that Geir-Ketil Hansen and the undersigned agree – that it is not just the changes in the petroleum tax that cause the project to be postponed. There has also been a significant increase in investment costs in general affecting Statoil. I think that's right. Amendments to the Law and the obligation to supply information to the authorities have also been mentioned. We fully agree with the objective of the government, but we believe that the proposal is too far-reaching and that it can be better achieved through the proposal put forward by the Association of Advocates themselves before the Stortinget. In addition, we have our own law firm, so we believe that it would have been a more correct way of dealing with these challenges, also to get information to the authorities. There are also a couple of other suggestions from us and others in the opposition. In this scheme, we propose to increase the tax credit for gifts that can be given to non-governmental organisations – up to NOK 25 000 for individuals and NOK 100000 for businesses. We are of the clear opinion that gifts that come in this way provide the voluntary organisations with free operating resources and not just all of the project support that they have gradually become dependent on. We think that's a good thing for Freedom Norway. Then we strengthen the Treasure Fund, and we do that as a total opposition. We also strengthen the possibility of depreciation. There are effects that would have occurred as early as 2013, not in 2014. With this I take our suggestions into account in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e455	The representative Hans Olav Syversen then addressed the proposals he mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e458	The starting point for the Left's tax policy is that working, saving, investing in Norwegian enterprises and jobs should be profitable, and not least contributing to environmental and climate-friendly societal development. Therefore, the core of the Left's tax policy is a shift from red to green tax. With the tax policy of the Left, working and creating values will be more profitable, living environmentally friendly, but pollution will be less profitable. The left wants to facilitate an innovative business, where innovation and development in existing enterprises are important, and how many start their own business. The left will therefore facilitate better relationships for individual enterprises, not least for better and equal social rights. Various government councils, at the request of the Left, have repeatedly said that they will consider strengthening the social rights of self-employed people. Nothing has happened so far. It is therefore important for the more than 230 000 self-employed that there be a government shift to the autumn. The left today promotes a number of proposals that will improve the conditions of self-employed workers; from better social rights, including sick pay and increased maximum savings in the occupational pension scheme, to better and more sensible rules on the payment of taxes. While the Left will improve business conditions, we will stimulate business to become more climate-friendly and environmentally friendly. Through the tax system, it can be done in two ways: either by increasing environmental taxes or by introducing differentiated rates of premium for desired environmental and climate-friendly behaviour. The left therefore proposes to introduce its own environmental depreciation rate in balancing group d, so that a further 5 pst depreciation is possible. if the investment clearly generates an environmental and/or climate benefit. The same approach is followed by the Left in the case of the TAX FUNN scheme. Today it's only 10 pst. of the research activity within the TaxFUNN that can be related to climate, environmental and efficiency gains. This will increase Left and therefore proposes the introduction of own financial limits in addition to such R & D activities, by 2 million, respectively. NOK 4 million. kr, depending on whether the research has been carried out internally in the enterprise or externally. The same applies to the Left’s proposal today to introduce tax exemptions for paid monthly employer cards on public transport and tax credits for energy savings measures in owner-occupied dwellings. The left considers it important to stimulate saving. Therefore, we propose to increase the amount of the share purchase free in our own company, strengthen the BSU scheme and the individual pension saving scheme. We also propose to abolish the inheritance tax, to remove the employer’s fee for apprentices and to grant employers’ tax exemptions for start-ups with up to five employees in the first three years. On Tuesday of last week, we celebrated the 100th anniversary of women's voting rights. It was an important milestone for equality in Norway. But that doesn't mean that we have real equality in all areas. One of the areas where there is no real equality is in the workplace. There are unacceptable pay differentials between women and men, and many employers employ men rather than women because many women have higher sick leave associated with, among other things. pregnancy. The left therefore proposes that the law on social protection be amended to cover all costs related to sick leave during pregnancy. In this way, a barrier to real equality in work disappears. Unfortunately, over the past few weeks we have seen that the government and government parties are on the wane in terms of privacy and legal certainty, among other things. today with the proposal to exempt lawyers from the obligation of professional secrecy in the field of taxation. As the Left sees it, this is an unnecessary proposal which is also strongly critical of the Riksadvokat. Both the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have given good reasons why we are voting against this today, so it is unnecessary for me to repeat it. Finally, I refer to the Left's proposal in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e477	The representative Borghild Tenden then addressed the proposals she mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e480	Today, the G8 starts in Belfast. One of the issues on the agenda is taxation and the discussion we are now seeing internationally, which is about protecting the tax base and trying to avoid tax transfers between high and low tax countries. In addition, the issue of information on tax matters is also on the agenda, not least through the work done by the OECD. The size is also today invited to take decisions on a tax agreement with the US, the FATCA agreement, which is about automatic exchange of information between US and Norwegian tax authorities. This is a kind of agreement that is likely to form a template for what we will look at in the international tax area in the future. So these are important areas. That is why there is also an important proposal on the table in what the Storting is discussing today — not only the issue of the US-Norway tax agreement, but also the tax exchange that is taking place by proposing reductions in the deductions for, among others, the tax exchange. multinational companies in terms of keeping revenue where there are low tax rates and expenditure where there are high tax rates. On this basis, the Government proposes to reduce the corporate tax rate by 1 percentage point from 1 January 2014. This should include, among other things: – and mainly – is covered by this tax exchange between tightening deductions and extending the tax base. This is a way of thinking about taxes that are well in line with the basic principles of the Norwegian tax debate. Then the Scheel Committee will continue to work on the problem until autumn 2014. Let me say a few words about the oil tax, in addition to what the case-rapporteur was about. I agree that stability and predictability are important for companies that make large investments. As a result, the main features of the oil tax system have also been fixed since the 1992 tax reform. Nevertheless, a implemented adjustment over time has been made – among others. the tax system on the base has gradually evolved into a system based on net income. It is also important to note that, unlike in many other countries, Norway has not increased the oil tax conditions in the last decade when we have had a strongly rising oil price. At the same time, the argument on stability is not an argument against making adjustments or changes. The most important thing is that any change is predictable on the basis of a general principle, which we have been clear about, and this general principle is that the rent is largely due to the person who owns the resource, namely the Norwegian people. It is also the case that the weakness of the oil tax system has been discussed on various occasions, including: in the follow-up to the 2001 oil tax sample and in the follow-up to the so-called KonKraft report of the revised national budget in 2004. So the companies can't have what you can call a 'corrected expectation' that distortions in a tax system will persist. Moreover, making some adjustments to the oil tax system is not the main cause of the fundamental stability of oil companies – the large fluctuations in the oil price show that this is a sector that is accustomed to major and unpredictable changes. But as I said, the changes we are now making in the oil tax system are, in my view, adjustments and do not reflect the fundamental stability of this system. Finally, let me just say two words about Document 8-110 S, about the compensation scheme. That scheme is there today to ensure that the choice of local authorities for self-production or output should not be affected by the added-value system. This is not a support scheme, but a scheme covered by the income system for municipalities. I would also like to show that the House Bank has quite extensive support arrangements for the adaptation of own-dwelling.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e497	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e500	I would like the Minister of Finance to explain a little bit about the consequences of the oil tax increase. Will there be only better cost control which is the government's official explanation, or will there be fewer resulting projects? The Council of State will think about it while I justify the question. When the revised budget was presented, Torgeir Micasen of the Workers' Party said that this was a big grip, while today, in the debate, it is only a minor adjustment. So it's obvious that someone needs to change the description. When the case was presented, the representative Marthinen from the Workers' Party said that this would reduce the tendency for overinvestment – i.e. that it seems that the pace is too high, and then it should obviously be reduced. Petoro has also confirmed that they fear that there will be fewer projects as a result. And SV’s Lars Egeland in the Energy and Environment Committee wrote on its blog on 5 June that the tax change “will make it less profitable to expand so-called marginal fields” – that is, the same thing as we have tax incentives to achieve, and then this policy is self-contradictory. Can the government be honest about whether this should result in fewer projects?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e509	The main purpose of this change is to contribute to a stronger cost awareness on the Norwegian base, and this is a topic that I have registered that, among other things. The progress party itself has been significantly concerned. At the latest this weekend, I saw in an interview that the representative Solvik-Olsen once again put the spotlight on the large and high investments in the oil sector, but without actually making any suggestions about what they intend to do about it – but they do not agree with the proposal we have here today. However, the main aim of the change is to contribute to a stronger cost awareness of the socket and to contribute over time to a cost development that shows a different curve and that in turn can contribute to strengthening the Norwegian mainland industry. That is the purpose, and that is the point of the proposal that is now on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e516	Any change in the tax system, such as with free income, results in an intersection that may involve both some challenges and problems. I have had contact with a couple of companies that are in a slightly special situation. They have undertaken to be part of the infrastructure that would later be used for a smaller field, which they have next to what is the main field, but where the changes may now have to be recalculated. And then the question is: will the Minister of Finance look at adjustment arrangements here, so that we avoid the unfortunate effects on companies that have gotten into the kind of problems that have tied up large amounts of money in investments that might not benefit them because they do not want to expand?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e523	First of all, in the context of the proposal that was submitted on 5 May, a company that had submitted so-called PUD, or PAD, plans to expand, and that the plans were in the department. So here's a transitional arrangement that makes companies that have come a long way in the decision-making process cut free from this change. The second thing we are looking at is a separate scheme for what we call ‘compensating instruments within the action area’, i.e. for Nord-Troms and Finnmark, because that opens up the EEA Agreement’s State aid legislation on investment aid under certain conditions. This possibility was also used when the EFTA Surveillance Authority approved the aid for the LNG facility at Snow White. We will now use State aid legislation, as was done in the Snow White case, to establish a system that could trigger landing projects in the action zone of Finnmark and Nord-Troms.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e531	It is clear that when things are done – at least from the point of view of companies – quite significant changes in a tax regime, and then I am talking about the petroleum sector, there is uncertainty as to whether this is the beginning of something or whether this is a one-off phenomenon. Regardless of what we think about the process – and the lack of process, from our point of view – and what will happen in the future: Does the Council of State agree that it has been a great advantage for oil companies to have knowledge of the framework of their activities in Norway, including in the tax field? And does the Council of State agree that it is also important for Norwegian authorities to appear predictable in the future – not least in the case of tax egymics?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e538	I share the view of the representative Syversen that it is very important to have predictability around framework conditions. At the same time, I pointed out in my speech that fluctuating oil prices and cost developments are also factors that this industry will and must live with in the future. At the same time, we have been clear – and there has also been a discussion around it – that there are some weaknesses in the oil tax system, and through the proposal that is here today, we are helping to correct that bias. The government has no further plans to change the oil tax system. It is also interesting to see that at the last round of allocation that was, there was a very great interest in participating on a Norwegian base. This may indicate that the companies consider participation on Norwegian pedestals as both predictable and hopefully also profitable.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e547	New theme: The left today proposes several changes to VAT rules. We do that to stimulate healthier diets and to simplify the system. So the representative, Kleppa, said in his post that this would mean extra costs for people. Does the Minister of Finance agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e552	We have discussed on various occasions whether a person should be able to use the tax system to promote specific purposes. It is not long since we had a discussion about the sugar charge. But that kind of question, whether it is possible in some areas, for example: strengthening the ability of the charging system to influence people's consumption and consumption habits, it is natural for the government to look at the state budget. It is an important aspect of the charging system, as well as the fact that the charging system will also generate good revenue from the state fund. But here and now I have not intended to signal any concrete changes or to say that something is going to be like before, but that this is a question that is naturally considered in connection with the state budget presented on 14 October. - It's the right date, President? That's good.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e559	Yes, the Minister of Finance would have made it clear that Stortinget was misinformed. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e564	The government shows, through the proposals we are considering today, but also in those we are going to discuss on Friday, a predictable and good course in fiscal policy. At the same time, while maintaining its promise of a global level of taxes and taxes as in 2004, the opportunities offered by the policy to adapt to a very demanding economic situation are being used strictly — and importantly —. As others have noted, we are living in a time of considerable economic challenges in the countries around us, major government financial challenges, and for many countries critically high unemployment affecting us. We already see it in many communities also in our seas. It has not been easier to sell our goods to other countries when the purchasing power of so many is dramatically reduced. So let's see. The continental economy is facing challenges. For example, the multinational company Takeda Nycomed chooses to shut down its production of medicines on Elverum. Nearly 200 jobs are lost, despite the fact that this activity is very well run by highly competent staff, and many will assess it to the point of continuing to have a good profitability – good profits over 40 years, a solid workforce, a good competence. But the Japanese owners see more profitability in moving production to Poland and Germany and to their available capacity there. Of course, I very much regret such a decision, but I understand the reasoning of capitalism in many ways. The cost level is higher here. That is why it is more than ever essential that we make every effort to take the steps that the Stortinget is invited to today, and that we are also going to deal with on Friday, in order to achieve a less two-part economy. When the government – in relation to the petroleum tax – now proposes to reduce the rate of free income while proposing to reduce corporation tax, this could help to facilitate the situation of many in the continental economy. It's a good grip, it's a good thought. It continues to contribute to the benefit of the Norwegian population on the base. We own them, the resources are our own. At the same time, it is still in my opinion that the tax will make it very profitable to operate on a Norwegian base. There will still be good opportunities for profitable investments, and there is a moderate reduction in free income. This minor adjustment to the tax burden does not prejudge the predictability and stability of the framework conditions for the industry. In my opinion, Norwegian pedestal still provides for an investment-friendly regime. The reduction in corporate tax will be an important measure to reduce costs in the mainland. So this is the right idea. So a few words about two things that are mentioned by several. I fully agree with the representative of Gundersen in his description of the ROS and ROT deduction. I believe that, first of all, it is a very expensive proposal that should have its impact, but I also stress, and believe that the Ministry of Finance is right when they write in their letter of reply that this is also a proposal that may have very unfortunate distributional effects. So just short of the proposal on the professional secrecy of lawyers and the possibilities of transparency in client accounts. I just want to comment briefly on that debate: the duty of professional secrecy for lawyers is very important. The obligation of professional secrecy is generally very important to many professionals, and it is important to have a discussion about it. But it's not like that the duty of confidentiality in many ways is high in stone and is a given size forever and ever. There is always a balance between the need that public authorities have for information and the need that professionals — here, lawyers — have to protect their clients. In this way, I think this is a good change that also helps to make it possible and practical to get the information necessary for, among other things. to prevent any illegality related to money transactions. It is also the case that, in some cases, with regard to the level of professional secrecy itself, it is necessary to reduce the level of protection of information relating to money, crowns and ears, rather than to personal information related to clients as such. In this way, I believe that the government has come up with a good solution that is practical and feasible.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e585	I would like to say a few words about Document 8:110 S, the representative's proposal on VAT compensation in the construction of nursing homes for my own children. It is a question that has been discussed twice in the Supreme Court. The first time was on 19 February 2010, and then it was the so-called Alta case, where the Foundation of Renting Rentals in Alta received compensation, as long as it was private that operated entry and rental, while the municipality provided the care services to the residents. That judgment opened up an understanding that several private individuals could also start similar constructions for people who were severely disabled and who did not have their own living capacity. However, in the Supreme Court judgment of 5 February 2013 on the Torneby case, Torneby Sameie was refused when it was claimed that they could not be considered as an establishment. That's interesting. I just want to refer a little bit from premis 44 in the last sentence, where it says: ‘Although, as I have pointed out in the past, the design of the intended purpose is also based on a premise that the objective is to prevent distortions of competition between different operators, it can be argued that the overall purpose should also be to ensure that the acquisition of owner-occupied dwellings could be carried out on its own initiative, as under the direction of the municipality.’ I quote: ‘The fact that the purpose justifying the rule could also have justified a more extensive rule cannot in itself lead to a rule different from that given.’ I see that what you're really saying is that because of the way the law is designed, you can't give VAT compensation, but it would make sense to give in such cases, like, among other things. Torneby. I record that the Minister of Finance wrote to Stortinget in a letter dated 29 January 2010: ‘In view of the objective of the VAT compensation scheme and the fact that the construction of housing for disabled persons and persons in need of care is organised in different ways in the municipalities, I see that there may be a need for a review of the compensation legislation in this area.’ Therefore, it would have been desirable for the government to provide a review of this. It's been over three years since you wrote the above to the Stortinget. I want to say what this is really about. I myself have visited a family that has a very severely disabled child. It's a family with a child who doesn't have future living capacity. The matter was well documented and discussed in Dagbladet on 8 June. In this family, both parents try to be out of work, both of them of course want the disabled child to be part of the family, and you want the child at home. They want to build themselves a house, so that the child can live with them, and not end up in an institution. The Minister of Finance showed in his speech that we have good support arrangements through the House Bank. But that doesn't apply to everyone. The parents who give priority to being partly or fully out of work are most likely to have too much income to receive support from the House Bank. This is at least true if they are going to build a new house. Had they bought an old house and asked for support for the rebuilding of that house, which would be more expensive, they could receive support. I have seen letters to the family, to which I refer, where this is documented. If a family wants to build a new home in Oslo for three to four million. kr, and you in the family cannot work full time because you have to spend a lot of time at home with the child, who needs a lot of care, according to the new equity requirements, you will not have enough equity to build that home to between 3 and 4 million. kr. If VAT compensation had been granted, it would have been possible, because there had been an equity claim of 750,000-1 million. kr, which could have been used to realize that dream, so that the family could live together. In view of the lack of housing for the disabled – and when parents themselves take the initiative to be with their child and want to build a future-oriented dwelling for it to work – I wish the Minister of Finance had followed up more of what he said in his post: the tax system can be used to achieve certain purposes. I wish you could also use it in this case to achieve a specific purpose. [[The President clubs]] I would like to explain that we will subsidize... [[The President's Clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e616	There will be no more explanation now. It's going to be a long time since speaking time was over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e619	First of all, the matter of the revised budget. In connection with the Right wanting to remove the inheritance fee, we do two grapples. The right-hander suggests removing the first interval, NOK 470000, the first sentence. In addition, in step 2, we want to halve the remaining rates and will return to other government budgets to remove the entire inheritance fee. We also have some comments on dual use, such as the Ministry of Finance, despite the fact that this was pointed out repeatedly by the Storting and several actors, not coming back again. They apply, inter alia, to: The gas power plants at Kårstø and Mongstad – although Kårstø is not going to be able to do so, and thus is not paying for it – have something to do with dual use, as the climate agreement says not to have in Norway. We also have some comments about oil firing. There are still very many households that have oil fires, including mine. It's a bad solution that needs to get out. We have chosen to support an increased fee already now, because we have also been involved in the climate agreement that oil firing should go away within a certain year. In the case of the representative proposal, which has just been mentioned, on VAT compensation for those who build housing for their own children with disabilities, this is in fact related to several cases, which have been within the Storting in this period, from the Right and the Advance Party. Everyone has the following conditions in common: a municipality needs to operate and build nursing homes, either for the elderly, for the disabled, for the mentally retarded or for whom it may be. Before the Bondevik II government, it was that private individuals who wanted to offer this had 25 pst., or the VAT rate, in addition to the price. Thus, of course, the rent was significantly higher than if the municipality did. We in the Right have said that we have to make sure that it is not VAT legislation that will determine whether it is profitable for a municipality to buy services from the municipality itself or various private providers, whether it is enterprise or individual dwellings. What has been important for the Right is to emphasise that when you build a home for private use, you have to pay VAT for this today. We're all buying houses. Then we believe that if the municipality in its housing social action plan incorporates such housing into the plan, you can get a refund of VAT if you are assigned a service from the municipality and have a need that is approved by the municipality. That's what makes the Right have a different proposal than the Advance Party here. But in practice it is the same. That's a point. I'm not going to quote the Supreme Court judgment from the Alta case, but I think first-rate in that judgment has a pretty good analysis of why it has to be non-discrimination for the future as well. What the Storting has done with regard to the Interaction Reform, what happens with health companies and housing offers, means that municipalities need to have greater flexibility in their housing and services. If you deliberately create a VAT code that cannot be adapted to the different needs of municipalities, it is a huge problem. In my municipality, Haugesund, there are now 20 to 25 nursing homes. The problem for a lot of municipalities is that center-closed plots are no longer in public ownership. This means that you have to build on private land or maybe buy land, which may be worse. This gives rise to major challenges of fair competition. We believe that the general condition should be that people need to be stimulated to live in their own homes, even when they have become nurturing. Then the state cannot make it more profitable for residents to live in a municipal apartment or in a private rented apartment or in their own apartment. The VAT compensation scheme is not the one to decide. It must be up to the individual municipality and the individual resident and not the Stortinget. In doing so, I take up the proposal of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left in case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e636	Then all the proposals relating to the four cases where there are proposals have been addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e639	I would like to comment on the proposal for VAT compensation in connection with the construction of nursing homes, which has been discussed by both the Minister of Finance and several others. The purpose of the general compensation scheme for the local government sector is to neutralise the distortions of competition that VAT may give rise to when municipalities are faced with the choice of providing taxable services themselves or purchasing services from private enterprises. The scheme is financed by the municipalities themselves in terms of the state transfers corresponding to the extent of the scheme when it was introduced, so that it is thus non-profit-making. The proposal for a representative proposes, in a simple summary, that private individuals building nursing homes for their children with developmental disabilities be covered by the VAT compensation system. This is about a group we must absolutely bear in mind when developing policies in different areas. A loan and grant scheme has been developed, including: for several disabled persons to have a financial opportunity to live in owner-occupied dwellings. In particular, grants are granted on the basis of gross capital formation, which means that VAT is taken into account in the measurement of subsidies. I would like to commend the proposers for putting further search lights in this area. However, there are several reasons why the majority does not support the adoption of the proposal. Firstly, an extension of the scheme will break for its fundamental purpose. We therefore believe that this is an area that deserves careful evaluation before any decision on changes is taken. Secondly, the limits of the compensation scheme have been discussed. The Supreme Court has ordered two judges, and the Riksrevision has examined payments made in error. The majority consider it important to clarify who is eligible for compensation, so that the VAT compensation scheme can work after the end of the year. The Ministry of Finance has stated that there may be a need to assess some clarifications and any changes to make the legislation clearer and more user-friendly. This includes, inter alia: to further assess the design of the regulatory framework with regard to the right of compensation of private and non-profit institutions serving households for the construction of residential housing. The Ministry states that it will assess these issues more closely and possibly come back with concrete legislative proposals at a later stage, after the matter has been discussed. The majority of the Committee shall attend to a review of the status of the national budget for 2014. In this way, this area will be able to be followed up further politically. In the preamble, the majority point out that the Norwegian Association of Developmentally Disabled Persons has proposed that the Compensation Act should be amended in such a way that compensation for the purchase of housing for health or social purposes intended to be permanent homes is no longer granted. The reason given by the NFU is that the compensation scheme contributes to an overinvestment in an institution-like complex, while it is a political objective that people with developmental disabilities should have as much ordinary homes as possible in a normal population. The majority ask the Ministry of Finance to consider the NFU input and whether the limitations of the compensation mechanism in this area are appropriate for the purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e657	As surely as we have arrived in June, and as we are in the last week of the Stortinget for this time, the Progress Party is re-proposing the proposal on ROT and ROS, because we believe it – and I don't think we'll get away with it in the future. The background to the creation of the ROT and RUT subtraction has been to stimulate increased activity in the construction industry and create more jobs. In addition, a clear objective of the action is to reduce the use of undeclared work. The introduction of these deductions has been a success in Sweden and has led many more to benefit from the scheme. The deduction is about much more than a tax deduction. I note that the letter of reply from the Council of State expresses some concern that the tax deduction will have adverse distribution effects — and thus refers to the following: ‘There is reason to believe that taxpayers with high incomes will benefit from the deduction to a greater extent than those with low incomes, as is the case in Sweden.’ This is an argument for the progress game. In Sweden, this was only the case when the deduction was introduced in 2007, while the majority of children’s families with two children who are double-employed and many pensioners who make use of the deduction have subsequently proved to be. Swedish company HomeMaid. An investigation conducted by Norstat on behalf of the Finn mission shows that 28 pst. the respondent has paid, or is considering paying, the craftsman. According to the Norstat study, there is painting work, 36 p.m., carpentry and carpentry work, 35 p.m., and rough work, 34 p.m., which comes to the top in the overview of which services we mostly buy black. When one knows that 95 pst. Of those who buy cleaning services in their home, they buy black work, it is very small again. Then it's a little wrong to say that we have to think that it costs 16 billion. kr – if we introduce this. We have to think that we get a lot of money back in terms of employer's tax, personal tax and not least VAT. Every day there is a notice of black work. One important factor is that, as social actors, we also have a responsibility to influence culture in a way that makes it more tempting not to use black work in or outside the world. In fact, the Progress Party wants to contribute to this proposal. The number of speakers is clear: a ROT deduction could help to increase opportunities for both practical and apprenticeship sites through serious operators in both the clean-up, construction and construction industries. Norway will have a growing need in the future, for example: trade union workers. The intake of apprentices is very cyclical, and business is at risk of encountering major challenges in the coming years. Unemployment among young people aged 15 to 24 has increased compared with the last SSB figure. It is worrying that more young people are going to be passive on public services instead of being in a work-related relationship. We have also seen that several companies move out of the country because we have a tax and tax level that can break most people who want to start up with something for themselves. I have to say that instead of making it possible to solve the challenges of undeclared work, which bring with it both crime, trafficking in human beings, tax evasion and a market dominated by unprofessional actors, it is more important for the government to say no to the proposal of the Progress Party, with a reason that this is a deduction only for the rich. When true, many of the kingdoms in this country have actually provided and created both jobs and new businesses, also to the delight of the voters of this government. It's a shame to bear witness to the fact that a victim of an entire craft industry, and instead gives criminal legitimacy, and by giving free play to dishonest practices that use the black market as a cover for other types of crime. It is very sad that young people who today want to become a craftsman may not be able to do so, because there are no apprenticeships. The reason is very simple: the serious craftsmen are not as important for this government. An entire industry is being sacrificed for the benefit of unprofessional businesses. The industry itself calls for ROT to be introduced, as in Sweden, in order to survive. The progress party listens to these actors, they are experts in their own industry. This month, there have been as many bankruptcies as there were under the financial crisis — perhaps even a warning that one has to contribute to action. This is one of our contributions to business to survive — and evenly so. Finally, I can only say: behind the clouds the sky is always blue, and the Progress Party must fight for the serious part of the construction industry to pass.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e686	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e689	We have discussed several times during this period both ROS and ROT, tax deductions for craftsmanship services and service assignments in our own housing and leisure facilities. This year it is the same thing: only the Progress Party is in favour of the proposal, the other votes against. I'm glad. I want to say that I agree with the case manager in his comments on the matter. In Sweden, the tax expense, or the loss of proceeds, is 13.7 billion. kr for handicraft and 2,5 brd. NOK for service assignments in the home. Then the proposers write that the background to the proposal ‘has been to stimulate increased activity in the construction industry and create more jobs’. Now the construction industry is doing very well in Norway, and we have very low unemployment in Norway. We are also well aware of a situation in which we should not use even stronger incentives when it comes to investing in our own housing. When it comes to black work, it's kind of strange, I think we're forced to introduce a tax deduction so that an industry will follow the laws and regulations. I worked a little on the proposal two years ago, together with the distribution section here at Stortinget. Another thing is that there are many more self-owners here in Norway. This means that the estimate would have been even larger, because in Sweden only those who are self-owners have the possibility to use this deduction. When there are deductions that apply to services in the world, it is only those with large incomes that have the ability to make use of these deductions. For those with low incomes, they have so low incomes that they do not actually come in when the limits apply once. There is no fact in Sweden about the employment effect of this deduction. So I want to make just one comment to another: in the line exchange with the government council before today, the left was busy with healthy diet, and wanted to change the VAT rules. Nevertheless, they are in favour of a proposal, together with the Right, in the case of removing the squamous fruit – one of the best measures for healthy diets for all. I think that this proposal is today's most embarrassing proposal and this year's hearty apple hose.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e706	I want to give the Minister of Finance once again the opportunity to give a clear answer in this room – it could have been a fine end to his term as Minister of Finance. I'm going to get into the oil tax, so the council can find paper and pencil while I'm talking, because I'm going to first take the representative Meltveit Kleppa a little visit. When the opposition proposes changes in the business tax to meet the challenges, as the government now sees, related to a two-way split in the Norwegian economy, the representative Meltveit Kleppa says that we cannot implement this now, we have to wait until the entire package is fully implemented, both tax increases and tax reliefs. But then the representative Meltveit Kleppa forgets that they are already implementing parts of the package presented at the Right National Meeting, because the tax changes for the oil are coming now. How can they be implemented now, while everything else is waiting? The representative, Meltveit Kleppa, is simply not fully involved in his own policy. Then she should be careful to point it out to others who actually have the whole. In the case of the three-processing package that the representative Meltveit Kleppa and others boast: Let's remember that two thirds of those appropriations are outside the rule of action. Had that money been within the rule of action, the Minister of Finance could not boast that he was spending less money than what was planned in line with the rule of action. But here he has moved money to Investinor outside the rule of action – a company that has 2.5 billion. kr in the account already, and then the government will boast that they will receive 0.5 billion. kr to be held in the account. Why not also give the money for road construction and depreciation rules today, so that the three-processing industry gets improvements today, instead of a company that is already stinted with money, getting money that they might spend in many, many years? It is the rule of action that creates problems, because the government is to boast that they stay within the framework of the rule of action at the same time as they have to come up with a woodworking package – but with instruments that have no effect. Some here believe that the ROT and ROS proposal to the Progress Party is unnecessary – it just costs money. It is interesting to note that all those who are usually concerned about black work, about how it destroys for honest businesses and braves the state too much money, suddenly feel that black work is not a problem. In Sweden, a letter of expenditure is paid on the tax, and then the country loses the tax revenue, but the point from Sweden is that there are suddenly many craft companies starting to see their income. If one takes both sides of this equation, one sees that the Swedish state is probably making money on this, because a lot of craftsmen are now starting to pay taxes on their income. And that's the point, then one makes sure that one gets a path where the honest competes on the same foot with the dishonest, instead – as we see Norwegian craft companies worried about – that they are out of competition by the dishonest. So to the Minister of Finance, will the increase in the tax on oil companies lead to fewer oil projects, or will there be an equal number? If it's the same number, I can't see how it's going to counteract the two-part division of the Norwegian economy, as the Council of State claims is the point. If the Council of State could answer that, I would have been very happy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e719	There are a few articles that I would like to comment on. I think that you have to keep your tongue straight in your mouth, and any tax change should be seen in the light of the need to achieve the best possible balance between the interests of society and the interests of individual decision-makers. It should be like an overall supply gel. This will also ensure stability, predictability, long-termity, etc., as major changes will not be necessary urgently. It is in the light that I find it a little strange to listen to Geir-Ketil Hansen and also to Knut Storberget. The Minister of Finance said that we have maintained favourable tax rules for the oil industry over a long period of rise in oil prices – we also agree on that. In particular, Geir-Ketil Hansen's contributions will be seen as a criticism of the government's own work. If you're going to use it as a cyclical tool, which I think is a bad idea, you should be out much earlier. It would be better to talk about the industrial discrimination that has taken place in relation to a lot of other business. We know that the depreciation rules are worse than our trading partners, roads, transportation, everything – we have neglected investments that can compensate for the level of costs we have. We can't say that it's a problem that we have an industry that brings money into the treasury to those degrees – that it's a challenge, it's something else, and that's why I shook my head, but it's not a problem. I must say that I react quite strongly when I read the reading instructions of, among other things. Karin Andersen, who calls the oil industry a gourmet. Then there is something the Storting has done wrong, and nothing wrong with the industry, to say it like that. I think that especially SV, who is so happy to spend money, should greatly appreciate that there are some who actually bring them in too – they can think a little bit about it in between. I also think it would be a little special to bring Takeda Nycomed into this. It is a fact that the government has been sitting and looking at a cost development that has gone from 20 pst. to 70 pst. At one point or another, an international owner would say that it is moving production abroad. That is what has been done by opening up the country to many foreign investments, and discriminating private Norwegian ownership, which has really come to light in the pharmaceutical industry, which, over a 10- to 15-year period, has largely gone from many Norwegian-owned enterprises to no one in the near future. So there is a lot of criticism of your own government in both Geir-Ketil Hansen's articles and Knut Storberget's articles.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e730	It was the representative from the Labour Party that made me take the floor again. I'm a little surprised and startled that someone close says things are going so well in this country, and that everything is so nice and so nice that we don't actually need any more new jobs – and not least decent jobs. It's disturbing to hear, but I just hope that people notice it. Another thing is that you don't want to listen to the nutrition at all. There are several nutritionists who have been yelling and screaming about this for a long, long time: Something has to be done, or something black has been working on us that is driving seriously. Neither will the government listen. Then there are about 170,000 women in this country who drive homes with cleaning, and these 170 000 women do not have proper working conditions. The government says they can only keep going. She doesn't want proper plans, she doesn't want proper pay, and she doesn't want proper entitlement to sick leave and sick leave. I hope people notice that. Another thing that I'm disappointed about is that one doesn't want to work for a new culture, a change of posture in the whole country, so that it'll answer to buying even work instead of black work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e741	I just want to say quite briefly – for the health professionals have come – to the representative of Eldegard: I do not see in any way the illogical nature of what she referred to. The background to our proposal to drop school fruit is that we give priority, and the left priority is knowledge and training of teachers. Knowledge is what we shall live on in the future, and a new government must definitely use more resources on knowledge than this government does. In the case of fruit and greens, parents will have plenty of access to buy cheaper fruit and greens, so this was, with respect to reporting, a strange attack.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e746	This is probably an attempt by the undersigned to get the Minister of Finance to engage in the debate in the United Kingdom on a topic on which they themselves have taken the initiative. But first let me give support to the representative Tenden. Although we do not vote in favour of the proposal, I believe that the way in which the red-greens have dealt with it is quite strange. Especially strange is when the representative Meltveit Kleppa is concerned that food prices can rise for some households. I have never registered such a concern from the Central Party when one has treated the agricultural settlement, which in fact means that both direct and indirect costs for households go up significantly. I hope that the representative Meltveit Kleppa can now go up to the pulpit and outline a new direction from the Central Party on this topic. So back to the oil tax. The government has said that the oil tax change is to stimulate cost-efficiency on Norwegian soil, so that one contributes to reducing the two-way divide in the Norwegian economy. However, for this to happen, it is necessary to invest less on a Norwegian base, so that one can give better conditions elsewhere, assuming that the capital as a would-be investor on a Norwegian base is also invested in Norway and does not disappear from the country. Alternative explanation is that less pressure on Norwegian pedigree means that wage levels are not pushed up in the same way. This will improve the situation for Norwegian industry. The government's assumption is that what creates bi-dividuality in the Norwegian economy is not the level itself, but the exceedances in the projects. I don't see that logic. Therefore, it would have been interesting if the Minister of Finance could explain: Is there any fewer projects that are intended, or will one maintain the projects? If there are fewer projects, there is logic in the government's proposal, while if one really says that the number of projects should be maintained, one cannot say that this oil tax increase leads to less two-fold of the Norwegian economy – for it is the same projects that fight for the same people. And then there's something hollow here. Then this is just a regular tax increase from the government to fill the oil fund and save more money abroad. Petoro, the state's own oil company, has said that they fear that there will be fewer projects. Then there's a logic in what the government is doing. I should like the government to admit this. The Minister of Finance has the pulpit here today to be able to do so. But he knows perfectly well that if he's honest about this, large parts of the LO system that want all the best for the oil industry will go to the roof. That is why he is using fog speech in this case and will not say what this is all about. The representative Lars Egeland, from SV, was very honest on his blog. He said that the tax change should make it less profitable to expand marginal fields. Climate policy will benefit, as emissions are reduced – ergo has less oil production. That's an honest point of view. The government cannot say that it has a good tax proposal when the red-green politicians are unable to agree on the consequences of the tax change. Then we need a finance minister who solves.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e766	It was the representative of Gundersen who made me take the floor again. I find it strange that when you are faced with proposals from the government on changes to the tax regime that may also have a certain impact on the economic distribution in this country, someone from the red-green goes up on this pulpit, almost perceived as a criticism of the government. It has to be the opposite. As well as Meltveit Kleppa, Geir-Ketil Hansen, signed and several others have pointed out in their articles: When you do the steps that are now being taken, which are important for how our economy is divided, and how we are going to get a less two-part economy, we see it as important and correct measures. But we also perceive that for every month – I kept saying – we are dependent on a finance department and a government prepared to take the necessary steps to meet the difficult economic situation across Europe. I don't see this as a once-in-a-lifetime measure. I believe that the government over several years has shown that it has the dynamics and flexibility needed to adjust the course in several areas, when necessary. The three-processing bet that has now arrived is a good follow-up to what you did last year at the same time. So this isn't something that suddenly came out of the hat. I am of the opinion that the government over these years has been able to ensure that we continue to grow, that we have as high employment as we do, and to contribute to giving business the necessary signals that make it possible to do business over a very short period of time. One of the reasons I pulled out Takeda Nycomed is that it's a very good example of what kind of challenges we're facing. I think the representative of Gundersen's constant argument that it is almost Norwegian property tax legislation that has made it difficult for this company is all on the side – really completely on the side. I don't think Norwegian property taxes were particularly involved in the assessments of the international companies when they bought up in Norway. And it can't be decisive on the issue of whether to withdraw from Norway, all the time the owners who are currently holding the shares in Takeda Nycomed, don't pay a penny in taxes on wealth to Norway. I think you sometimes have to stick your finger in the ground and ask, what's the driving force in what's going on? In this way, I believe that the measures that are being dealt with today, and measures relating in particular to company tax, to be dealt with on Friday, are good measures to simply help ensure that more jobs remain in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e781	Only a brief response to Gundersen in terms of oil taxation, moderate tightening and deductibility. I do not hide that SV is very happy that this grip is now being taken. We have been impatient for a long time because we fear the consequences of the pressure on the Norwegian economy to which the ever-increasing investments on the socket have contributed. There is a pressure that is very serious and that can help a number of companies in other industries to go beyond the end – not least in wood processing, which I know Gundersen is concerned about. That is why this measure is correct. It is very good if it helps to put investment in some fields at risk, so that it is done over a longer period of time. It's a necessary and proper grip, which I'm glad the government has taken. When I listen to Gundersen, I find that the right is limited to commenting on the problem that this pressure, this two-way street, is causing. They themselves have no relevant measures against this, other than the traditional fiscal latrine policy that the Right has been pursuing over time. 25 B.C.E. they do not have funding for – based on the additions to other budgets that they contribute to this room. The right has limited itself to only identifying this problem, but has no policy to counteract it. On the other hand, the government has it. That is why this measure is so right. Only a brief comment on the Left, which highlights a critical note on fruit in school – the Health Committee has now come to the Chamber and they will debate the public health report later this week. It is quite right, as the representative Eldegard commented: there is no coherence in the prevention policy of the Left when it comes to accepting such a good proposal and action as well as fruit in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e795	The representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e798	The red-green period at Stortinget started with some parts of the constellation standing in the lawn and protesting against their own government. I have registered that this has also happened today. It's a nice way to mark the end of a red-green period. I am still waiting for the Minister of Finance to be involved in this debate. It is paradoxical that the government, on the one hand, has put in place an oil tax regime that stimulates increased exploration – by making an actual cash payment when one implements it as an advance on tax – but on the other hand has to have a policy that reduces the number of projects that are realised as a result of this exploration activity. It seems a little bit contradictory. So the Minister of Finance did not want to take part in this debate. Had one been from one of the other parties, one would have liked to say it was cowardly. We don't use such words in the Advance Party. I am very pleased that at least SV has clarified what is the government's policy, namely that the projects should be postponed and cancelled. That was confirmed by the previous speaker. I hope that the Labour Party too is man enough to acknowledge – when they are in debates – the consequences of their policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e807	The next speaker is Gunnar Gundersen. The Gundersen is the case rapporteur on case No. 4, and in the case of case No. Four, he's got a speaking time of three minutes. It shakes his head, then he has 1 minute's speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e810	That's absolutely right, President. I had to respond when Geir-Ketil Hansen says we do not have funding. Can Geir-Ketil Hansen point out a budget where we have not kept within the same framework as the government? In the revised national budget, we're now spending 800 million. kr less, precisely because we do not repeat much of our tax treatment – we find that quite reasonable. At least it cannot be said that the Right does not provide funding. We have a number of actions that we have managed to prioritise within the same framework as the government. This applies, inter alia, to: improving trade, research and development, stimulating Norwegian ownership, and providing fiscal conditions that are competitive with international business through depreciation rules, tax FUNN and that type of thing. I just had to say from the fact that the post to Geir-Ketil Hansen showed more that he has not followed in the hour than that we have not presented alternatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e817	I have answered the question from the representative of Solvik-Olsen in the reply. It may be that the representative Solvik-Olsen was not satisfied with the answer, did not take the answer inward or did not understand the answer – the representative Solvik-Olsen has to do so in so far as it relates to himself. The second thing I want to say is that the Minister of Finance is neither coward nor wants to avoid debate. A well-meaning advice to the representative of Solvik-Olsen: a minimum objective of substance is in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e824	At the risk of – for my part also – for the later to be blamed for being cowardly, let me just clarify a few things. Firstly, it applies to the Left's proposal to reduce VAT on fruit and green against raising the overall food tax by 10 pst. The fact that we were against it took Solvik-Olsen as a sign of a new agricultural policy. I can calm both he and those who are more concerned with Norwegian agricultural policy than Solvik-Olsen: the great discord between the Progress Party and the Center Party in that field is probably firm. So, at the petroleum tax. When the government announced this on 5 May, put it into effect from the same time and set up transitional arrangements for the projects that have arrived in the department, we in the Central Party thought it was a neat arrangement. These different packages contain several sub-elements to work together, both the growth package and the package for the wood industry. Then I have to say that it is reasonable to stand here so – I almost have to use the expression – self-fulfill and draw conclusions because there may be nuances in vision between the Center Party, the Workers' Party and SV on individual questions. It's just supposed to be missing. It seems reasonable to stand here then, as a representative of a party that calls the rule of action a 'home rule'. The whole setting of the revised shows that on the one hand there are four parties that say to the Norwegian people that they will reign together from the fall of, but you world so big a point of disunity it is. It's not easy to relate to it, either for them or for the voters.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e833	A number of the debates that are now being referred to come in during the week in which we are now in, and you might have those speeches in those debates! The representative Borghild Tende has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e838	Very, very briefly: I take the floor because of what the representative Geir-Ketil Hansen said. Had the government parties been concerned with healthy food and healthy lifestyle, they would have gone for Left's proposal, which goes on VAT exemption for fruit, green and organic food. I am surprised that the party SV does not see that this is a wise way to conduct tax policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e843	I have to take part in the debate between the Council of State and the representative of Solvik-Olsen, me too. I wonder that the Council of State after a lot about and finally goes up on the pulpit in order not to elaborate what he actually wants to mean about a 70-billion-dollar tax. kr. Is it that 70 billion? kr more in tax over 35 years – 2 billion. kr in the year – will there be fewer projects, i.e. the profitability of the companies means that there will be fewer projects and that the government's objective of less two-fold in the Norwegian economy is at stake? If there are not fewer projects – as suggested by the Council of State in its response to Solvik-Olsen – how can there be less duplication in the Norwegian economy? Then it becomes exactly the same engineers and the same talents that go into the industry and continue to be in the industry, and the division continues as before. You can't do both parts, both satisfy SV on one side and trick the voters on the other side. I have to say that the Council of State should have all sorts of respect, but he can also show respect back to the representatives in the Chamber. To say that Ketil Solvik-Olsen was not factual in his speech is pointless. What's missing here is an answer to the question. Governments can come up here and say whether there will be fewer projects, more projects or an equal number of projects. I think the Council of State can answer that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e850	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 to 5. At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 6 and 7 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e877	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e886	The size now has important and absolutely necessary changes to the Patient Rights Act. Five main changes are proposed, which are unanimous. The first proposal – and perhaps the most important – is that healthcare businesses are now responsible for notifying the Health Economics Administration, HELFO, if they are unable to meet the medically prescribed treatment deadline for patients, and not as today, that the patient himself is responsible for contacting HELFO. Today’s legislation means that probably the most resource-intensive patients are found in a complex system. That is why we also see that a very small proportion of patients contact the health economy administration when the deadline is broken. The responsibility for contacting health professionals — not least that they are responsible for making immediate contact — when they see that they do not have the opportunity, is likely to result in more patients being granted their right to study or treatment within the time limit set. The second, which is a proposal that will also mean a great deal to patients, is that, in the first response to referral, health professionals are given responsibility for giving the date and hour of examination or treatment to those who are given a period of time within four months. Those who are granted a period beyond four months shall also be allowed a period, but within a weekly period. This will lead to very many patients experiencing the answer they get back, as much more concrete and understandable, and that many will settle for it because you have a disease or suffering that you can wait for, until the time you've got, as long as you've got a concrete date and hour. Not least, this will require health professionals to have a better overview of their own time use and hours off. The proposal also provides for a medical deadline for all persons entitled to health care and for only two groups to operate: those entitled to health care and those not entitled to health care. The proposal also means that the current 30-day assessment deadline is changed to a 10-day deadline for the assessment of referrals. It is also essentially the reality and practice of today's system. Furthermore, radiology by private X-ray institutes having contracts with health care establishments is covered by the free choice of hospitals. All of these proposals involve in some ways an improvement in patients’ rights and are something to which the Storting unanimously subscribes. I believe the two most important proposals here – that health companies are responsible for contacting HELFO, and that the date and hour of the first enquiry – are the proposals that are most important. These are also proposals that the Right has made as a representative proposal earlier in this period. At that time, they received support from the entire opposition, but they were dissented, but now they have unanimous support. In addition, the opposition promotes three other proposals that should also have been adopted today, but which unfortunately are not adopted. The first proposal implies that rehabilitation, together with X-rays, had already been lifted into the free choice of hospitals. It was part of the draft consultation on this matter and received broad agreement, and the opposition believes that the law amendment could have been implemented already today. Then one could have investigated the practical consequences of the legislative change in the same way as the other legislative changes we are making here, and had a date of entry into force at the same time with – or possibly later than – the others. The second thing we are proposing is that the national lead-times, which are medically justified in the case of cancer, should also be made legally binding. Thus health businesses were also responsible for notifying HELFO if they were unable to follow the lead-times, or had a medical justification that it was not necessary to follow the lead-times. Last but not least, the opposition suggests that it should not only be the duty of health professionals to establish a patient coordinator; the individual patient should also be entitled to do so. It is a matter that has also been raised in the media lately, and it has received broad support, among other things. from all patient and user agents and from Per Fugelli in the evening post last week. Then we also deal with a proposal from the Progress Party to introduce the Danish ‘package course’ into cancer care. It also receives support from the opposition. I refer to the suggestions that the Right promotes with others in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e909	The representative, Höie, has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e912	The thing we're dealing with now is a change in laws that will mean too many people. Today, you wait up to 30 days before you get a response to the referral, and then wait even longer before you get the time for treatment. If you are not eligible, you may not get any specific time then either. The change in laws we're now adopting will change this system. Some hospitals are already in progress, and at the Hospital Østfold they have adopted a goal of giving people time for treatment in the letter of reply to the reference. They're not quite there yet, but they're on the right track. Granting rights is great for those who are covered by the right, but it can lead to it being at the expense of others. That's why I'm glad we're now removing the term "right spaced". Today, some patients are assessed to have the right to the required specialist health care and others only to need health care, while a third group is rejected or referred back to municipal health care. This distinction between rights and non-rights spaces is difficult to understand and practice for both health professionals and patients. Now you either need specialist health care, or you don't want it. If you need to, you will be required to review your referral on an ongoing basis and within 10 working days at the latest. In addition, you are required to have a time to start healthcare within another 10 working days. This applies to all those in need of specialist health care – not just a group. It is very positive that health businesses now have to report to HELFO themselves when they are unable to keep the deadline for treatment. It is good in several ways, and I think it will have a greater impact on health businesses when they themselves have to report. I also believe that many more deadlines will be notified to HELFO. Today, it is the case that the individual patient has to do it himself, and many people do it hard enough to do it. It is important to point out that although health firms are now required to do so, patients can of course continue to contact HELFO themselves. The Committee refers in the preamble to the Special Health Service Act § 2-5a on Patient Coordinator. The Committee is concerned that this legal provision is not adequately followed up by the specialist healthcare service. The majority of the Committee therefore considers that there is a need to assess the wording of the provision in order to ensure that patients’ right to follow up and coordinate their services is respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e925	In this debate, we are discussing both changes to the Patient and User Rights Act and the Progress Party’s representative proposal on a so-called ‘package’ process in the field of cancer care. During a short article I may not be able to cover everything in these cases, but I will try to concentrate on the deadline for referral and the deadline for diagnosis and treatment as well as the so-called package sequence according to the Danish model. Let me first point out that in these matters I experience the proposals and comments that lie, both from the government parties and from the opposition, as an expression that we all want to strengthen patient rights, and that we in this room are all concerned with improving Norwegian health care for the benefit of Norwegian patients. Although we disagree with a number of instruments such as rights-fixing, resource use, price-sharing, etc., as well as the fact that some of us – naturally – are more impatient than others, it is worth stressing the commitment to strengthening patient rights that we all have. The proposals of the red-green parties and the proposition that it is the specialist health service – not the patient – to contact HELFO if it is unable to meet the legal deadline for the latest provision of health care, as well as the proposal that the right to free hospital choice should also include private radiological institutions that have an agreement with a regional health company, are both good examples of our being together to move in the right direction, even if the latter could have been implemented immediately. One fact for all of us who work on health policy – and for patients – is that waiting list data from the Norwegian patient register show that there are considerable differences in the rights allocation between regional health companies and that there are some significant differences even at the level of health enterprises and within individual patient groups. The party of progress believes that the government's grip is positive, but inadequate. Although the deadline for referral is now set at 10 working days, in our view, this has little influence on how quickly the patient actually receives consultation and treatment. It's clearly positive that patients are now more entitled to information than before, but we think most patients are actually more concerned about how quickly you get treatment, and not just the information they need. I think, unfortunately, that the new deadline will not lead to significantly better provision for patients who need rapid treatment. Changing the current system of patients who are classified into the categories of health care and not entitled to health care will, in my view, be largely a theoretical change. The Progress Party believes that it is central that serious disease should be prioritised first, and this should also, of course, apply after the conversion and regulated by the priority regulation. I think that the proposition will mean that the priorities of healthcare will continue as today, and that unfortunately patients will notice minimal change. The Progress Party shares the Cancer Association’s concern that patients who are not clearly diagnosed with cancer – and of which research shows that there are quite a few – can fall further behind in the priority. This fact once again underlines the need for a cancer treatment package in line with Document 8:102 S, which is also being addressed today. The Progress Party believes that there is a need for a greater review of all Norwegian patients’ rights than the government makes in this proposition and that patients’ rights should be strengthened in several areas. In Denmark, there are two different treatment guarantees. One guarantee is one month and applies, for example, to cancer patients and patients with severe heart disease. The second guarantee applies to other patients who are guaranteed to start treatment within two months. If this deadline is not met, patients are offered treatment at other public or private hospitals. In addition, a new guarantee for one month of pilot studies and diagnosis is introduced in Denmark during these days. The Progress Party believes it is high time to grant Norwegian patients similar rights to those enjoyed in Denmark. I record that the government parties are concerned about such a proposal and believe that it will cost too much. The progress party is not worried about spending more money on getting patients healthy, but it's good economics. I will address the proposal which has not been addressed in any other way in the two cases mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e957	The representative Per Arne Olsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e960	We have a law-based health system. Then one of the most important tasks of the Stortinget will be to ensure the right to health care for all, in line with the legislator's intention. The legislator's intention must be to give priority to patients who have the principle that those who need the most help should get it first. A too complex piece of legislation can contribute to a red tape that works against the intention to strengthen patient rights. Laws must never be so complicated that they stand in the way of wise health assessments. There is no reference point from other countries to the fact that unit-price financing, privatisation and market alignment of healthcare provide more proper priorities, equal access to public health care or better financial management, rather the opposite. Nevertheless, I note that it is the opposition's response to almost all of the health challenges. Today’s amendment strengthens patient rights in relation to the right to be assessed, including in the event of a delay. The fact that from now on there should be a specialist service and not the patient himself who alerts HELFO about a deadline break is a change that has been called for. It also strengthens patient rights that the time limit for the right to review is changed from 30 to 10 days. In case of serious or life-threatening illness, the patient is entitled to faster assessment and emergency assistance. Elimination of the distinction between patients with rights and patients without rights will hopefully be a positive contribution to less bureaucracy and more effective patient management. When the Storting introduces new rights, the effect must always be carefully followed in order to be able to adjust practices if the change has unintended consequences. In the case of a right of assessment, it is important that the focus on the specialist services is followed by a corresponding focus on the general practitioner’s competence to detect as soon as possible the symptoms that require referral. The European Court of Justice has established that healthcare is covered by the rules on the free movement of services laid down in the EFTA Treaty, on which the Patient Rights Directive is based. The right to hospital treatment in other countries, covered by the social security system in the home country, will affect the health system. We don't know how yet. When treating patients in a country other than where patients have their other responsibilities and rights as citizens, the need to categorize and price different patient groups and treatments increases. The manager must secure the correct price for the service performed, a fair trade. The Patient Rights Directive is the result of a long process in the EU system, where drivers have not been the people or nations but the EU system. In the negotiations, Member States were concerned about the need for planning, cost control and priority countries. In Norway, the Patient Rights Directive is a good example of how the EEA Agreement works in Norwegian democracy. It has not been a popular requirement to become part of a common European health system, and no political party has had this as a battle cause, at least not within today's political plurality. Nevertheless, the directive becomes Norwegian law today. Compared to current law, the Patient Rights Directive extends cross-border healthcare to include hospital treatment. This is according to the Ministry of Regulatory Enforcement of the Court of Justice of the European Union its practice, which the Ministry claims is binding on Norway. So the European Court of Justice will go first, then the elected national parliaments will adopt the law's law-making practice afterwards. The Directive provides that patients should be entitled to health care in all countries that will benefit from the internal market in the EU. Patients should be entitled to reimbursement up to the cost of treatment in their home country. Member States may require prior authorisation for reimbursement of certain health services. If the waiting time in the home country is too long, such pre-approval must be granted. In principle, national legislation is subject to EU law in all areas covered by the decisions on the free movement of services. While a territory is being opened, legal developments in this area will be determined by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Today’s Norwegian interpretation of the Directive will therefore be able to be corrected by decisions of the European Court of Justice. This Directive allows national pre-approval, but does not require it. Reimbursement schemes and large distances may challenge non-discrimination as an important value in health services. The possibility of changes in national health provision to own populations resulting from the harmonisation of countries with very different payment capacities has been little mentioned. It is a long tradition for countries to cooperate in cross-border healthcare. Of course, it is positive when a country’s specialities are made available to patient groups in other countries. It is uncertain what kind of effects it will have if the extent of health travel increases considerably for treatments where the tradition today is close between the patient’s geographical affiliation and the treatment provider.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e988	Changes in the Patient and User Rights Act are important changes that are also in line with some of today’s practices. The Christian People’s Party supports the four main changes – the right to be assessed after referral to the specialist healthcare service, the need to change from 30 to 10 days, the removal of the distinction between rights and non-righteous spaces, the responsibility of the specialist health service to contact HELFO in the event of failure to comply with the deadline for healthcare and the necessary laws to implement the EU Patient Rights Directive. On the part of the Christian People's Party, I would like to underline some additional points. In the current law, the patient’s health status is to be assessed within 30 working days, while the referral is now. This is a change in law. If this is to be seen as a reinforcement for the individual patient, the reference is alpha and omega. Good referrals are not only important to assess the patient early, but it is also important to initiate a good and prudent patient course. The proposal points out that work is being undertaken on a project for the development of a national referral guide. This must be a project at express speed. I ask the State Council to explain this in more detail in its article, how this project is supposed to take care of patients, because a poor reference to hospitals means that someone else has to do the job. It's unnecessary, but you can live with it. What you can't live with is that a lack of references means that the patient – the one referred to – does not get the help it needs. Furthermore, the proposition makes a distinction between the unexplained and the clear state of the patient. In patients who have resolved their condition, the individual legal period shall apply to treatment, but the patient has an undetermined condition, the time limit shall apply to the investigation. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to stress that there must not be a slip from what we today call the clarified state and thus the right to treatment, to the unsolved states, which only give the right to investigation. It's important that the Council of State is concerned. In addition to this, I support the comments made by the rapporteur, the representative of Höie, in his statement on patients' rights, and that they can choose a rehabilitation site, as far as this is concerned, with the lead time for patient treatment, and this with the individual right to a patient coordinator. So to the representative proposal of the Progress Party on a ‘package trajectory’ in cancer care. There is a lot of good in Norwegian cancer care. It is well anchored in research as the starting point for a clinically good treatment. But we must never forget, despite doing a lot of good, that getting a cancer diagnosis is a heavy burden on mental health, but also on treatment. It is therefore important to facilitate good treatment and treatment processes. It is important for me to stress here that information to the patient who is affected, and relatives around is also important. Therefore, the Christian People's Party supports the proposal of the Progress Party for a ‘package course’ for cancer patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e1005	The main objective of the legislative changes, which we broadly agree on today – and I agree with the representative Olsen that we have very similar motives here – is to simplify and improve legislation and ensure better and more orderly access to specialist healthcare for patients who need it. The content of the proposals is reproduced by several speakers, so I'm not going to go into it in detail, but I think it's a development that's right. I am pleased that an overall committee is joining the proposals for changes that the government has promoted in the proposition. There are important changes that will help to ensure that patients have good and sound patient profiles. I would also like to emphasise the fact that hospitals are now responsible for taking action if it carries on a deadline breach. It is to provide equivalent services, because it is often the strengths of resources that have been most easily seen to carry that path, while others who do not have insight and resources can remain in a difficult situation. I would like to stress that we do not reach our objectives alone by making changes to the legislation. I'm a little worried that there might be a trend during this day that we think that just we're discussing rights fixing, lawmaking and formulating texts, the reality changes in the clinical everyday life. No, this is a broad development towards better communication, clarification of rights and better practices. This must be done every day in the hospitals. They need to work on empowerment, and patients’ administrative systems and better information for patients need to be put in place in order to comply with the new legislative proposals. The promises we make in ICT will help do this. The government, I can promise, will help to enable hospitals to achieve the goals. Some have commented on the proposal to change the assessment deadline. Among other things, the Cancer Association has been concerned that serious illnesses can be neglected as a result of the proposals. I would like to stress that this proposal is not about weakening the rights of those who are seriously ill – on the contrary. The laws shall apply to all patients in need of health care, both those with cancer and those with conditions that do not require equally rapid treatment. The new rules shall act as a safety net for all patients. Of course, those who become acutely ill or who suspect a serious illness must be assessed and treated more quickly than those with less severe conditions. I agree with the representatives of the Progress Party that cancer patients must be guaranteed healthy, effective and good treatment. At the same time, I would like to stress that we have good quality in Norwegian cancer care today, which means that more and more people survive their cancer. We know the statistics about that. Proper and rapid diagnostics and investigation provide the basis for good treatment outcomes. So we have an ambitious goal, set in dialogue with the trade unions, of that 80 pst. patients must have started treatment within 20 working days. We're moving towards that goal, and we're making progress. The government’s new cancer strategy, presented two weeks ago, is drawing up national objectives in several key areas. An important objective is to achieve well-coordinated and predictable patient pathways. It shall include, inter alia: is done by establishing standard patient profiles in all the action programmes and by further developing the national action programmes to cover the entire patient cycle. Well-organised patient courses with recommended lead-times shall ensure a rapid, predictable and holistic course through diagnostics, investigation, treatment and follow-up. In terms of content, standardised patient profiles will have clear similarities with the Danish model of ‘package trajectory’ for cancer treatment, adapted to the organisation of our healthcare. When it comes to the issue of law-enforcement of lead times, I believe that this is not the way to go. The individual patient must be individually assessed according to the severity of the disease and the urgency of the disease. I believe it would be wrong to regulate certain deadlines related to diagnosis. The regulatory framework will then become more complicated and bureaucratic for both healthcare professionals and patients, without necessarily leading to better patient outcomes. The government is concerned that all patients should be sure that they get the help they need when they need it. I believe that these legislative changes will contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e1028	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e1032	I'm going to be allowed to ask questions about this with the referral period, because it's been presented – probably not by the Council of State, but at least in the media – as if you go from 30 to 10 days. But really, it's about two different things. It's a deadline today, but you change the text of the law that there's a 10-day deadline for referral, while what's in the current legal text is 30 days to evaluate the patient's health status. Then you talk about apples and bananas. I am very much in favour of the 10-day deadline, but when it comes to replacing a 30-day deadline that goes on a completely different basis, the question has to be: Does the Council feel that modifying the legal text is strengthening patient rights, when the 30-day deadline for assessing health status lapses?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e1039	What I experience is that with the part of the 30-day deadline that the representative refers to here – that you have to be investigated within 30 days – it is a very mixed practice. For what is an investigation? It may be an investigation aimed at providing answers because the investigation itself provides clarifications, and it may be an investigation to initiate treatment. It's a very small accurate target, as I hear it from the clinical everyday life. The point of the current text, which we are gathering today, is that a practice that currently lies around 10 days – it is even a little lower, our tenors are good to refer to, and the hospitals receive it – is now to be set at 10 days, so that as a patient you will be called in and start your relationship with the hospital. Then I believe it is important that the hospital should take your condition individually. If there is a need to start an investigation immediately because of the state, that decision must be taken. If there is a clear condition that can be treated in time, it must be taken, and if it is acute and serious, as for cancer patients, it should of course be taken seriously as it is. I don't think it's a weakening, but on the contrary, it's a simplification – and a simplification is pretty much good for patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e1050	The health oversight of intestinal cancer patients shows that very few of our hospitals have some overview of the patient’s course. That means, for example: are set new deadlines without taking into account the patient’s overall length of service at the hospital. It is also described today in a chronicle in the Evening Post by employees of the Health Authority. We have also read about Per Fugelli, who has described his meetings with 37 different doctors. In a situation where the patients on the one hand say that this is one of the things they experience as most uncomfortable in the meeting with the health care system, and the Health Authority reveals that even for these seriously ill patients, it is not a system that takes care of the overall patient course, wouldn't it be wise that these patients were entitled to a patient-responsible doctor, so that what the system can't take care of is at least a person looking out for?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e1057	The important thing here is that it's a law, and that it's an obligation for hospitals to make sure that the patient gets the guidance he or she needs. If we call it a contact person or a coordinator – or what qualification he or she has – I think I need to be seen in the light of the patient’s need. Therefore, I believe that whether it must be a doctor – insisting on it – depends on the needs of the coordinator or contact person. I notice today that the Cancer Association and the LHL say that it is not essential that it is a doctor – it must be a person with competence, so that the health needs are met. But what the representative is quite right about is that the potential for improvement in Norwegian hospitals in terms of communication, the care of the whole human being, the human need, is great. We have skilled therapists, we have less communication skills in hospitals. But making this a right, I think, is creating more bureaucracy, more of what hospitals call it is too much of: forms, reports, complaints – all sorts of such supervision. Today you have a duty, it is also stated in the law. And the Health Authority has thus seen a responsibility to see the hospitals in the cards.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e1064	After we have dealt with these changes today, after ten working days, we should be able to obtain a treatment course once the referral has been dealt with. But what is then alpha and omega is that the referral is good, that you can communicate knowledge through the referral, so that the specialist health service sees the needs of the patient. As I read the proposition, the government has also been concerned that the referrals must be good, because a project is to be launched to develop national referral guides. I asked in my post whether the Council of State could comment on this in its article. He did not, so I now ask whether the Council of State can explain the arrangements with national referral guides – when this project will be completed, so that the references that are needed will be good.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e1071	What I hear is that Norwegian lawyers are quite good at referring to – throughout that is good references. But it goes without saying that when you refer to the specialist health service, it's because it has to take over a staf stick. What I think it is important then to do is to develop such guides that can contribute to a kind of standardisation and guidance on how to accept it. I can't give a deadline for that today, but it's working with a high priority to get this done. When this legislation is to be implemented – it will give many more rights and it will become a simplification – it will also be a boost to competence. I think it's a better way to go to strengthen the responsibility of hospitals to do this better than that we as legislators are going to come up with ever new rights, ever new laws, ever more tasks that are going to lead to more words and more bureaucracy in reality in everyday life. So we're going to put this supervisor in place soon and get it out to the hospitals – to help those who are going to do the important job.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e1076	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e1081	I refer to Innst. 451 S, which generally discusses how we can get faster treatment in cancer. Cancer affects many, and we all know the face of cancer, as a relative, as a friend or from our own experience. Although the treatment results are progressing with us, there is a lot of suffering and insecurity with cancer. All proposals for rapid and at least equal investigation and treatment are therefore important. This proposal is linked to a ‘package trajectory’, as used in Denmark. The word «package» should be a smaller point in my post, but I think the word fits poorly and is associated with something cold and technical. What we want to use is processes that are well planned, that have good progress, and where the professional resources find each other in the right order – and where efficiency does not harm good care. The proposers refer to experience from Denmark and deadlines there. There are many similarities between professional organisation and interaction for cancer patients in Denmark and Norway. We have national action plans with professional guidelines for a number of cancers. This has contributed to joint treatment regimes across the country and good results. In order to be even better introduced in 2011, the government recommended the interim periods for the investigation and treatment of certain cancers, which are integrated into the National Action Plans. We say that referral should have been evaluated within five days, the investigation should have started within ten days and treatment should be started within 20 working days. Hospitals are measured if they achieve this for at least 80 pst. by the patients. For good reasons, e.g. a very difficult investigation into the path to diagnosis will take some patients longer. Do we really know what is the ideal measure of the area, measured in the number of days? I don't think so. Intuitively, the goal could be that on the same day as the symptoms of cancer – or the unrest of cancer or non-cancer – we should come straight into a streamline trajectory. Maybe it would also be hard for many. It's an experience that some time to deal with shock and anxiety, along with their loved ones, is important. That part of the healing process is individual, but must also be given the right time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e1094	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 6 and 7.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e1108	The case concerns a supplement in the Health Register Act § 8 concerning the processing of data in the Cancer Register. The Government has proposed that the current requirements of the Cancer Register Regulation for consent should be replaced by a legal right to reserve itself against the storage of data. It is also proposed to give effect to the change for information already collected. The aim of the legislative amendments is to prevent the loss of data collected and to avoid the loss of the available research capability of the Register of Cancer, to provide advice and guidance on health care for cancer diseases and to provide information to the administration and the population on measures to prevent cancer. Out of 33 hearing bodies, one has opposed such a proposal and all parties in the Health and Welfare Committee, except the Christian People's Party, support the proposal. I will explain the majority's view and expect that the Christian People's Party may explain its own. As we see it, the matter raises two main questions. The first: How can you do that? respect of privacy? Second, since the amendment to the law applies to data already collected, does it have retroactive effect? Privacy is a fundamental right and privacy is challenged in a number of areas of society. On 28 May, the majority dealt with the privacy notice, such as: points out that new technologies allow the storage and use of personal data to the extent that it was difficult to imagine in the past. In this case and in many, many other cases, the interests of individual privacy and other needs need to be balanced. These are not simple assessments. The Working Party and the majority consider that the proposed right of reservation is a reasonable balance of privacy considerations to the need for data in the Register of Cancer to be used for the research and treatment of cancer. The Data Protection Authority and the Data Protection Authority have decided to delete data on healthy persons in the Kreftregister. In order not to lose these data, the government has proposed that the change should also be applied to information already collected. The matter thus raises the second main question: about retroactive force. Does the proposal imply a retroactive effect of new legislation contrary to the Constitution? The majority have taken note of the assessment by the Ministry of Justice's Legal Affairs department, which reads as follows: «In our opinion, there can be no doubt that the proposed regulation is not affected by the Constitution § 97.» The majority share this assessment and place the decisive emphasis on the right of individuals to request information about themselves deleted. We live in a time and in a society where we must constantly be on guard against changes that weaken the individual's right to privacy. Privacy must weigh heavily, but other considerations are also legitimate. The political task is to balance considerations and seek to find solutions that can at the same time respond to privacy and the other needs of society. We believe the right of reservation solution is a good, balanced solution. We avoid a serious setback for Norwegian cancer research and at the same time grant individual ownership of their personal data.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e1137	Privacy is a fundamental right challenged in a number of areas. Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights provides that each person has the right to respect for his or her privacy. The intervention in the private life of individuals, including the right to have information about themselves, is contrary to the Convention unless intervention is necessary in a democratic society. Health protection is such an area. But yet this tells me that what we're discussing now is of a very fundamental nature. The requirements of the Register of Cancer provide rules for the collection and processing of health data. Section 1-2, third paragraph, which regulates data in the screening programme, states: ‘The force register may also contain health information on persons who have participated in an early diagnosis and control programme for cancer. In the case of negative findings, direct personal identification data may only be recorded permanently after consent. Direct person-identifying information may be stored temporarily in order to ensure the quality of the information.’;» Unfortunately, the Cancer Register has not acted in line with this regulation. This has been demonstrated by the Data Protection Authority through its 2009 decisions and beyond. The consent requirement is not met, consent to the voluntary, explicit and informed declaration by the data subject that he or she accepts the processing of health information about himself or herself. Let there be no doubt that the two screening programs we are dealing with today are two important screening programs. We believe that it is possible to continue to maintain the principle of consent. Health Fonna writes in her hearing that they: ‘is of the opinion that, in the interests of privacy and respect for the individual, informed consent should continue to be required. With thorough information and transparency, we believe that the needs of society will be cared for, and the person concerned will be able to maintain control of his or her own life and integrity in a better way than through right of reservation. [[and researchers]] Inform consent requires greater effort and accountability from health professionals, but with good practice the difference will not be large and it must be possible to achieve the same data base as with the use of reservation rights.» The starting point in Norwegian law is that the processing of personal data is based on voluntary consent. The processing of health data which is not based on the consent of the data subject is considered to be an intervention in privacy and requires a specific legal basis. That is why we are discussing this today. We are now going from a case where registration is accepted that those who are in the register and in the screening programs of the Kreftregister must oppose registration. The Christian People's Party believes that this is such a major interference in privacy that we cannot support the government in the changes proposed, and we therefore oppose the changes in Prop. 160 L.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e1158	In this case, it is natural to give homage to the World-Class Epidemiological Research Cancer Register. Norway may have the best cancer register in the world, based on data quality and long observation time. A little bit simplified, but right, the explanation is fractional. This research is going to be good when both the numerator and the denominator are right. The researchers around the world find their real counters – they know how many cancer patients got a diagnosis and how many survived. But they have difficulty comparing their own results over time with others or with themselves, because it's easy to find the numerator, but difficult to be sure of the denominator. In many countries, the exact size of the population is not a safe figure. For example, many countries have population census only every 10 years and then with large sources of error. Our cancer researchers have the world's best data on cancer incidence and survival because we have a quality register, and because researchers can work with safe denominators from population and personal numbering systems. I support the proposals on the subject and am pleased that political support is very broad. This is important policy backing for high-quality research for new generations. We gain new knowledge from international research, and Norway should contribute to the international community in areas where our competences and our assumptions are completely unique.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e1171	This is probably not a day when you want to extend the debate. But I would like to pay tribute to the committee and to the rapporteur, and in particular to the chairman of the committee who took this matter at short notice, because it was necessary to promote this as a matter in Stortinget. I fully agree with the representative of Health that it is of great importance that we now, with the exception of the Christian People's Party, gather to make the Cancer Register in Norway robust and capable of caring for the important societal task. When you go into this matter and look at the significance especially for women's health, but cancer research in general, we see that it is of exceptional importance that we can make the decision we are making today. Let me just underline: Privacy is a topic of all of the most important category. I think it's well taken care of here. Here's the full possibility of booking, and we're going to follow up, of course, that it's going to be followed further. But, as I said, I think it's a good thing that the Storting today can do this so broadly and collectively, and it adds a good foundation. So I'm also going to say that we're going to follow the way the Cancer Register is now dealing with this side of its work, because it's clear that being excellent in field research is one thing, and being able to organize that work is an administrative challenge that's a slightly different matter. It's just as important to keep order of those siblings, and we have to follow that up with the register.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e1182	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e1196	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that the opportunity be given for a replacement of lines limited to three lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e1207	The first speaker is Kjersti Toppe, who is the rapporteur on the matter. We have just adopted a debate where the centre party should have 5 minutes, and then the case-rapporteur, Toppe, will have 5 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e1210	Report. St. 29 Tomorrow’s care is referred to as an opportunity message for the care services. The message has been well received and considered a very important message that must guide the development of the service. The Committee points out that a strong and well-functioning public sector is the cornerstone of our welfare society. The Committee is equally fully committed to the message’s focus on good welfare services depending on everyone taking responsibility and actively participating in the community. Not everything can be left to public systems and professional practitioners alone. Active co-responsibility – formally through voluntary organisations, user organisations or informally through family and social networks – contributes to the creation of trust and solidarity between generations. The Committee believes these are values on which the development of future care services needs to be built. The Committee points out in its attitude that studies indicate that physical, social and cultural activity is poorer in today’s supply than basic tasks of care and care. The Committee believes this shows that the cooperation reform must be further developed towards more active care, more prevention, more rehabilitation and rehabilitation, and the introduction of new technologies and working methods. The care sector is far from caring for the elderly. However, it is worth noting that the number of people over 67 will be more than doubled from 2000 to 2050. The number of people with dementia in Norway is expected to double to about 140,000 within a period of 25-30 years. These changes will, of course, challenge the municipal care service. The main objectives of tomorrow’s care messages are: to look for and mobilise their collective care resources, to develop new forms of care through new technologies and new professional methods, to strengthen their research, innovation and development efforts, and to make existing housing more accessible, as well as to apply new welfare technologies and to focus more on pastime and everyday rehabilitation. The largest care resource is often within the user himself. Activation and help for self-help can contribute to a better life and for users to survive longer at home in their own homes. In order to achieve this, the professional conversion of the municipal health and care services is necessary, with a greater emphasis on rehabilitation, prevention and early intervention. The Committee supports the government's efforts to stimulate municipalities to apply different models of everyday rehabilitation. The Committee underlines the need for knowledge dissemination and to strengthen both ergotherapy and physiotherapy efforts in municipalities. Reference is also made to the need to develop day-to-day activities for people with dementia. This message provides an application for an active and forward-looking family policy. The Committee stresses that a strong public care service is necessary for the care of the dependants to receive the assistance and support they need. Studies show that many relatives themselves are being wiped out and that Norwegian municipalities have consistently not mapped or assessed their care burden. This message will be grabbed. The majority emphasise the importance of improving the quality and fairness of the care pay system. A Joint Committee supports the Government's proposal to develop a national strategy for voluntary work in the field of health and care, with the aim of recruiting and maintaining volunteers in the care services, strengthening social networks and reducing loneliness. Reference is made to the commitment to the training of volunteer coordinators under the direction of the Centre for the Valdity of Bergen, as well as to the certification scheme for ‘life-sickness home’ under the auspices of the Foundation Levsglede for Elder. The Committee is also concerned about and supports the warning of the redevelopment of housing, where reference is made to the strengthening of the incentives for the adaptation of its own housing. One also supports that investments should continue beyond 2015 with regard to hospital and care housing and that it should also include security housing. It shall become a national welfare technology programme and also a programme for innovation by 2020. I'm sorry, I'm not allowed to say more...
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e1238	The President has been made aware that the Committee wanted the rapporteur to have 5 minutes more available, and that it would be on the Workers' Party's quota. If the representative Toppe wants another five minutes, she'll have it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e1241	It is a little late to say it when I have tried to finish, so it should be said to be a test.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e1246	The President referred to the usual arrangements for the allocation of speaking time, and then the Committee must also pay some attention to whether this is in accordance with the wishes of the Committee. The next speaker is Håkon Haugli, who has been informed to have a speaking time of up to 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e1251	That the community is responsible for providing care when we need it is for the Workers' Party one of the carriers in the welfare state. We're concerned that the generations after us are going to have the same security. Anyone in need of help and care will get it. The word "opportunity message" is used in tomorrow's care. It's about thinking new, different and better. Nothing can or shall replace personal care, but new technologies and new ways of doing things can provide greater security, greater freedom and improved quality of life. Several will be able to live where they would prefer to live: at home with themselves. The challenges in the care area have been described many times in the past. All indications suggest that care services perform their basic tasks — treatment and care — in a good way. But services are often late and are not as good at preventing and rehabilitating or seeing the whole of physical, social and cultural activity. The Hagen Committee has also highlighted several challenges: growth in younger user groups, older people with greater needs for help, fewer voluntary care providers and shortages of health and care professionals, to mention something. It is possible to solve these challenges. It is about seeing the resources of the users themselves, their families and networks, in organisations and communities. It also involves conversion, more prevention and rehabilitation as well as the development and strengthening of the core care activities. Combustibles which switch off automatically prevent fire. Sensors that trigger an alarm if someone falls save lives. GPS transmitters can give demented freedom to move in nature, mastery feeling and quality of life. A moisture sensor in the bed may help the home service not to lock itself in and stick a hand into the bedclothes. Avoiding the awakening and experience of getting its personal integrity violated is important for both parties. The social alarm has only proved to be the beginning of a technological revolution that will simplify life and make older and related safer. Another example of innovation and conversion is the important work being done in the dementia field, among others. through Demen Plan 2015. Today, 70,000 people have dementia in Norway, and the figure may double in 2040. Daycare facilities are being developed for dentures throughout Norway, daytime services that activise, stimulate and provide good experiences, and that relieve the nearest ones in the daytime. A well-developed day-to-day service provides quality of life and contributes to preventing or postponing institutionalisation. For the Workers' Party, this is about us not only defending but continually developing the welfare state. It is important that the public is responsible for the care services. Ideal actors and the voluntary sector are good and important partners. Voluntaryness has a self-esteem. In addition, volunteering is a resource for many older people and a resource for volunteering. Nevertheless, through a public model society, it is best to ensure that resources benefit patients and users, that predictability is created in the provision of services, and that resources are distributed fairly. Experience with extensive commercialisation shows that there is no improvement in quality and that services cannot be provided cheaper without breaching pay and pension conditions for employees. We are fundamentally sceptical about what we see in Sweden, where more and less of the health group with a foreign address operates the competitive part of the care field. It contributes to significant amounts being brought out of the country without taxing. In the progressive party-driven Austevoll municipality, the company Aleris now takes over all care services. A private monopoly of care does not give any more freedom of choice. But it gives more bureaucracy: An order office with several annual works now has the sole task of entering into and following up contracts with commercial suppliers. What happens to the concern about the private supplier going bankrupt, as we recently saw a private school provider in Sweden do? And if new ideas are only understood as ‘business secrets’ and protected by competitive considerations, how can innovation benefit other parts of the care services? We find it difficult to understand the uncritical enthusiasm of the right parties for private solutions, and we register that, among other things. has the Pensioner Association with us in this scepticism. Our answer is another one. We will further develop the good Community solutions we have in Norway. We want professional conversion and sharing knowledge. We will develop services in cooperation with and in respect of those involved: users, relatives, health and care employees, non-profit institutions serving households, research environments and business.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e1274	There were many who had great expectations when the government made its announcement of tomorrow's care, but again we see that expectations are not being met. Once again, we see a message that is good at describing the situation, but which makes little concrete proposals for action on what the government will do, and what the state will contribute. The concept of care embraces all age groups, but the Progress Party will always have an extra focus on our old, sick and caring elderly. Older people, like all other people, are different, with different needs, experiences, traditions, interests and tastes. Older people can be more vulnerable than others. Sickness, aging and weakened health mean that many elderly people are not able to cope as much as before. The quality of society is often measured against how well it takes care of its elderly. For several years, Norway has had examples of some major deficiencies in the care of the elderly. The worst stories have adorned the fronts of the tabloid visions and appear as horror examples of neglect and abuse. Many wonder how such things can be possible in a country as rich and well-developed as Norway. In fact, we have had a continuous debate on the care of the elderly since we received permission to provide the community health service in the mid-1980s. What we have been able to record is that the municipalities of the country have very different assumptions about how they can solve the problems in this important welfare area. At the same time, we see more and more tasks being assigned to municipalities, and the quality requirements become more stringent, but the instruments, and especially the financial instruments, are in many cases not proportionate to the need. The indebtedness of municipalities has also increased dramatically in recent years, and the space for action has been reduced. For a number of years, the Progress Party has called for a state funding of the care of the elderly. In Norway, it is the state that sits on the money bag, while the municipalities meet the need in the first line. The opponents of our proposal often show that it is the municipalities that are most suitable to assess the need as they are closest to the users and patients. Of course, that's quite right, but there won't be any more money. I could have understood whether those who do not support our proposal had been in favour of free municipal taxpayers, and at the same time lowered the national taxes and charges, so that the municipalities could have provided themselves with the economy needed to provide the quality of services that big-scale politicians are talking about, but no one is suggesting. What we see in Norwegian municipalities is that they lay down on a standard that is called well enough. The most important thing is to balance the limit of what is required by law and regulation, and to avoid remarks and deviations from supervision of the cheapest possible money. Unfortunately, we all too often see that the offer ends up on the wrong side of this border, with the tragic and unworthy consequences it can have. For a number of years, the Progress Party called for the state to have financial responsibility for hospitals. We were expelled and ridiculed because it was a read and assumed truth that the county council was closer to the patient than the state, and therefore better suited to being hospital owners. We had the annual blackmail between state and county, which had red numbers in their hospital accounts. So suddenly there was a political breakthrough, and the hospitals were taken over by the state, so that the state was responsible for the funding. As a result, hospitals received more financial resources, and we got a fairer distribution compared to the production of specialist health services. Thus, it was possible to sort out the hospital economy, for the benefit of patients. In addition, if we had kept the facility on the relationship between basic funding and input-driven financing that was passed on to the Progress Party, I am convinced that the health cows had become much smaller. I am now waiting for us to see a similar political awakening in the financing of the care of the elderly. The municipalities and primary health services are almost the patient, and they are often the best ones to tell about the need. The point is that when the need is duly justified and established, the money should have come automatically from the state, as we see in relation to sickness benefits, unemployment benefits, maternity leave, etc. Why is the resistance to this so great? I think that's one of two reasons: either you don't have faith in the professional assessments made by the primary health staff, or you're afraid that such a plan will become too expensive. Now I don't believe that's the first option that's up to date, because we're constantly reminded by our political opponents that the employees out there are doing a fantastic job, and we can end up doing a lot of good work in the care sector. Then it must mean that it is the second option that is the great fear: it becomes too expensive. It will be too expensive to provide old and sick elderly care and care of the quality and the extent to which big-scale politicians and government members talk about in election struggles after election struggles, and it will be too expensive to offer the dignity guaranteed by the Prime Minister in his New Year's speech. Norway is a poor country that sees need to rationalise healthcare in such a way and through such organisation and discharge. Norway is a poor country that can allow such unworthiness as will result from this system. Norway is poor who cannot see the individual, and meets it in a holistic way, according to the individual’s needs. Norway is a poor country that cannot provide the necessary safety nets in which the need governs the supply of our old and sick people who have built this society. The Progress Party will therefore continue its fight for a better service provision for our old, sick and disabled people, and we are also promoting a number of improvements here today. Understandably, we are proposing that the financial responsibility for the care of the elderly should be transferred to the state. We are promoting proposals to introduce a directive so that municipalities carry out preventive home visits to people over 75 years of age who want such an offer. This is something they have had great success with in Denmark. It seems preventive. It provides greater security for the user and allows early action, if necessary. We know that there is a lot of good care by the family and the closest to the caring one. Such a care pay scheme is practised in many places today, it becomes almost a joke. We therefore propose the introduction of binding norm rates and criteria for care pay, so that this scheme can function as intended. We believe that the elderly are important measures to give many people the opportunity to stay at home longer and yet have a social and stimulating arena to participate in. Therefore, we want earmarked operating grants for such elderly centres. In Denmark they have also had success with the project «Longest possible in their own lives», which was started in the municipality of Fredericia. This is one of the few projects in the primary health service that have been carried out with follow-up research and has proved to be a success at all levels. The users are satisfied. The employees are satisfied. And the municipality saves money. This has been proposed several times by the Progress Party, and we have been dismayed, for then in the next round to experience that the Minister of Municipal Affairs comes almost freshly home from Fredericia, where she had seen the light. Many Norwegian municipalities have taken an interest in this approach, where home helpers move on to home cleaners. But there are significant issues that you should be aware of, otherwise it may end up with failure. That's what research has shown us. The cost of the conversion itself will be slightly higher, but in the long term it may lead to a substantial reduction in costs. We believe that the municipalities here need special means of conversion, so that they can change their offer and focus from making users more intrusive to becoming more self-held. We want free user choice, and we want legal rights to family training. We see that there is a major problem with misnutrition and malnutrition in the care of the elderly, and refer to Sweden, which has taken an active step by employing people with clinical nutrition skills in all municipalities. Such a measure will prevent much unnecessary suffering and is socially economical. We want to have a review of the physical therapy reimbursement schemes to get a uniform regulatory framework for the whole country. Many today do not receive the physical therapy they need. We want a national rehabilitation and rehabilitation plan based on the model of the mental health escalation plan. This is a neglected area. We believe it is unreasonable for users in need of resource-intensive services to reduce their offer because the state grant lapses when they reach the age of 67. We want a BPA scheme where the user's assistance needs are essential for when and where and for which tasks the assistance is to be provided. We want a statutory right to hospitalization if we have a documented need. We want a progress plan to meet the need for happy day care. In our opinion, the nursing homes have not become as they were supposed to be. Nursing homes should be an alternative to a nursing home. They were to have the standard of living, and the manning was to be increased as the need for care increased. Unfortunately, we see today that nursing homes have become a lower stage of care, and that old sick and often demented people are moved to nursing homes when they have only months left to live. This is unworthiness set in the system. We need the clarification of such a plan and ensure that users and patients are offered at the right level. We will help to ensure that everyone gets exclusive access to hospitals, as promised by nine health ministers, but not yet fulfilled. We believe that patients who have to share space against their will in hospital, only have to pay 50 pst. of the consideration. This will prevent the denseness to which we see a tendency today. We want state staffing standards for nursing homes both for doctors and nurses. The increasing tasks of primary health services with patients and users with complex disorders require professional competence to be ensured. I know that many fears that manning standards can lead to that becoming a minimum standard, and I can share in discussing it the day it becomes a problem. Today we see that we have up to 80 pst. Unskilled, and we see that when professionals are away because of sickness, leave or other absence, they are replaced by unskilled workers, if at all extra staff are deployed. This is one of the few measures that businesses can use to save a few dollars in a tight budget. The back of the medal is that the quality of the offer is considerably reduced, and it can approach the indefensible in relation to patient safety. This is what we want to change. We also believe that there must be a much stronger effort to secure places for serious sick and dying. These shall be accessible by persons of all ages, where there is the possibility of combining institutional time and home time, and where there is the possibility of having their closest friends and receiving a multidisciplinary service offer that takes into account the needs of the patient as a whole. We're missing about 600 of these places today, based on the population, and we want to make sure that these are set up and secure means of operation. There are major challenges in the care sector today, and they will not be smaller in the time to come. I think everyone is genuinely concerned that good services should be provided, but the discussion is about what means we should choose to get to it. I think the last 30 years have shown us that even though a lot is good, there are a number of things that can and must get better. Let's end with the black player game between the government levels. Give professionals the opportunity to do what they are trained to do, and allow patients and users to experience the security and predictability of our welfare systems. Let people have the opportunity to maintain their human dignity and dignity even if disease or disability has affected them. With this, I would like to address the proposals put forward by the Group of the European Progressive Democrats alone, and those to which the Group of the Party of European Socialists is advocating.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e1330	The representative Jon Hunter Gåsvatn has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e1333	We had great expectations for the big news tomorrow's care. This year’s government budget, and in other respects as well, has repeatedly been referred to this notification by the government. But all expectations were unfortunately not met. The message is full of words and the challenges are well described, but the message contains few concrete actions. It does contain a number of ideas about what municipalities, voluntary sector and business can do, but there are no specific measures on how the government intends to solve, for example. the challenges and problems faced by municipalities and with which they are struggling in the context of the cooperation reform. Time doesn't allow me to go deep in all the areas, but I want to draw out some areas scrupulously and elaborate others, which the Right believes are fundamental to getting a good and well-functioning welfare offer. This applies to user-controlled personal assistant, who now needs to be in place. It's been several years since the Storing made the decision. This relates to the model of social contracts with volunteering and actions aimed at providing a better response to the related resource. Private and voluntary actors need to enter the rehabilitation field, and they need better and more predictable framework conditions. I would also like to refer to our proposal on the free choice of rehabilitation. As far as housing is concerned, I would like to put forward our proposal for an interest-rate compensation scheme for nursing homes and homes, as has been the case with school buildings. I also refer to the proposal that private schemes should have the same level of grants as public actors in the construction of nursing homes and nursing homes. There is also a need to focus more on hospice and on increased professional competence in the field of relief and care at the end of life, and not least there is a need to provide child palliation and to provide more assistance to seriously ill children in the specialist and primary health services. I want to refer to the good work that the organization YES is doing to relieve children and care for them. There is a need for more dedicated hospital doctors, and we think they should be paid in the same way as hospital doctors. I would also like to refer to our proposal on national medical coverage requirements and reiterate our call for increased research in primary health care and the need for more educational homes. These are concrete measures that we believe could already help to increase both the capacity and quality of care services. For the right, it is important that care policies provide opportunities for everyone in the future. We rely on new ideas and better care solutions if we are to succeed in building up a robust and well-kept care facility. Then we must let go of all good forces. Voluntary, non-profit and private organisations may participate in the work, together with the public sector, to develop more and better quality care provision. I want to elaborate on three areas that we think are fundamental to meeting tomorrow. Firstly, rehabilitation: the right, like many of the hearing bodies, is very concerned about the situation in the rehabilitation field. We support the government's proposal to lift everyday rehabilitation as an important part of care for the elderly and caring, but at the same time we will stress the need for a stronger commitment to the rehabilitation field through a binding escalation plan. There is a need for a more seamless transfer of patients in need of rehabilitation — from specialist health services to primary health services. It is necessary to distinguish between day-to-day rehabilitation and specialist rehabilitation. The National Audit Office pointed out in its report to the Stortinget last year that there has been no strengthening of the provision of rehabilitation services in the specialist healthcare service since 2005. The government has not raised this to a greater extent in the big message we are now handling. We find that disappointing, and we believe – like the professional communities and patient organisations – that this is very serious. A lack of provision of rehabilitation means lost opportunities for many people. Too many people are going back to work. It is about the political will to create more freedom and quality of life, so that more people can be part of the important community of jobs. Through rehabilitation, we give more opportunities to master their lives more independently and with more choices. But also for those who are not going back to work, rehabilitation gives an opportunity to be independent and not to depend on others, to experience freedom by getting up the stairs and entering their own home, to make dinner yourself and to lie down as early or as late as you want. This is why the Right has proposed that the next major health policy reform should be in the area of rehabilitation. In fact, there was a broad political consensus in Stortinget. But when it came to the concrete, failed government parties again and voted down the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party's proposal for a binding economic escalation plan over several years, to build up the rehabilitation field. We believe that a stepping-up plan is important, both in order to take a boost to strengthen the offer today and to re-establish the great aftermath, and in order to refurbish the rehabilitation area of tomorrow. I also want to mention in this context the consequences of a professionally neutral health law, which the Red-Greens passed, and which we already see has led to fewer physiotherapists in the municipalities. This means that many people do not have the necessary rehabilitation, with the serious consequences for the individual. It also applies in other disciplines. Another area I want to highlight in particular is competence: skills and experience of care professionals are crucial to improving the quality of supply. The right has proposed that much more bet is needed than what is being done today, and employees need to be given greater opportunities for professional development. I refer you to the Right's proposal for a lift of competence in the care sector. The government points out in the notification that the need for personnel is increasing and increasing in the future. We agree, but we don't just need more hands in care – we need more and more competent hands. Increased competence will increase the safety of the employee at work and thus also improve the quality of the provision provided. One out of three employees is unskilled, while care services are becoming increasingly responsible for people with severe and complex suffering and needs. It is a problem that too few of the staff in the care professions are followed up with the provision of continuing training. It is necessary to work actively to make nursing homes an attractive arena for nurses. In the municipality of Bergen they have taken this challenge seriously. They have now put in place a training scheme for nurses. Right-wing Health Agency, Hilde Onarheim, says that the scheme should provide professional security to newly-trained nurses so that they can provide even better services to the elderly and caregivers. The newly-trained nurses gain work experience, both from home health care and from nursing homes. This is a good example of taking active action both to recruit highly qualified staff and to improve the quality of services for those in need of assistance and assistance. So to the part of the message that we in the Right had the greatest expectations of, but where we believe the government hasn't fulfilled, that's the part that concerns new innovation and welfare technology solutions in the health and care field. We had hopes that the government would take greater account of the opportunities offered by the new technological solutions. These are solutions that can provide people with need for assistance and/or care, a more independent life, increased security in everyday life, greater freedom of choice, greater dignity and improved quality of life. However, technology can never replace human contact and care. But conscious, ethically sound and forward-looking use of well-being technologies can enable more people to stay at home longer and to live well in their everyday lives. It can also provide a better offer to those already in care. It is simply about giving as many people as possible greater quality of life and greater control over their own life situation. Kåre Hagen, who led the important public investigation work prior to this message, said at a conference organised by NITO, the Norwegian Engineering and Technology Organisation, in our spring that Norway is a different Nordic country in terms of welfare technology. At the conference, Hagen expressed the unbelievable sadness of seeing a sector that wants more staff and more staff, but at the same time uses specialised nurses to pick out medications, put in dosets and drive out to the patients. The solutions in the care sector are not necessarily more money, more places and more staff, but better organisation, use of new ideas and better solutions, among others. by means of new technologies. We can no longer have a waiting attitude on these issues, and especially not in the field of practice. That's why I think this message should have contained more incentives and a clearer direction on how the practice field and the municipalities should be able to implement innovative and innovative solutions. This is what they have realized for the longest time, both in Denmark and Sweden, and that has been implemented. In Denmark, even five years of civil engineering have been trained in welfare technology. The challenges and needs of the care sector in the years to come are many and demanding, but there are also great opportunities. Therefore, new ideas and better solutions are needed. Good interaction between the public non-profit sector and the private sector is desirable and necessary. There is a need to put ideological bargains on the stable for good and use all the good forces and opportunities that exist across sectors of the Norwegian community. Right will have a care sector that meets tomorrow's challenges in an innovative, safe and effective way, where patients have a real freedom of choice, where relatives play an important role [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e1408	In the context of the debate on future policies in the care and care sector, it may be good to start with what is happening to this sector in our country at the moment. Then I want to refer to some figures: In the period 2005–2011, 22,000 new annual works were created in this sector. Only in 2013, i.e. this year, the Central Statistical Office has announced the creation of 3,200 new annual works. 21,000 people have completed basic, continuing education and training in the health and social field. Compared to the population, the proportion of annual shifts in care services is highest in Sweden and Norway. And finally, the OECD has selected Norway as the world's best country of care. It should be good to have this perspective as a starting point when we discuss the challenges ahead. They don't get any less of this, but it says we're at the top of the world in having a good care for the elderly and a good care sector. The challenges that we will face in the years coming in this area will be such that the care sector – in general, but in particular the healthcare sector in general – will be the sector that will require the largest resources in the future, both in terms of the crown and ear allocated to the government budget, and not least in terms of the need for personnel, that is. recruitment challenges. It is because the health status of the population is good, that more and more people are getting older; we are living more and more. This big message points to the challenges of the future, but also to the opportunities of the future. Here, ‘care technology’ is a key element — how care technology, cooperation between municipalities and non-profit institutions and research opportunities can facilitate a service that can make it possible to live and live at home for as long as possible. Reference has been made to research opportunities in this area and a national research centre on care technology has been proposed. I was not so long ago at a debate meeting on this very topic and I would like to stress that in the years to come, it is important to have a major focus on research and development in this area, central and national, but also local and regional – thus facilitating good cooperation opportunities and cooperation solutions between the municipalities regional, business regional and also the research communities regionally. For this purpose, a policy at the intersection of the health and care sectors and the business sector may be a sector that can provide the basis for local and regional value creation. That's an important point. Then I would like to point out that this sector in the years to come must be an important part of public responsibility. The public must therefore be responsible for the care sector. I mention it because it is a proposal from the right-wing parties that it should be more and more facilitated for the sector to be privatised. To ensure that everyone has equal access to care services, wherever you live in the country, and regardless of the size of the wallet, it is, and must be, a public responsibility in the future. Privatised care sector with an increased share of price financing, as proposed by the Progress Party, means increasing differences and not least the construction of a state bureaucracy. It's not a future solution. I mentioned at the outset that this will in the future require considerable more annual work in the care sector. Here we operate with numbers of up to 100,000 more if you look at it in a slightly longer perspective. There will be major challenges for us — major challenges for the education sector, but not least major challenges for recruitment. Then we can't have a sector that mainly lives in part-time positions. Full-time must be the general rule and part-time the exception. At that time, municipalities must be able to provide economic and resource support for full-time jobs in the coming years. It is a very important part of SV's policy, and I would like to underline that in my post as well. Finally, should we be able to finance this sector in the future? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e1429	The President will remember the time of speech. It includes the last two speakers, and then this is a warning also to future speakers.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e1432	Thanks for the warning! The cancellation message Tomorrow's care and the treatment in Stortinget today is the beginning of something that can be very good. First of all, it's good to think new and desirable developments. The definition of innovation is creating something new. It's known or new knowledge combined in a new way or used in new contexts. It's ideas translated into a better practice that creates added value. Innovation is raging, bold and experimental in form. The Christian People’s Party is also pleased with the principles of good care that underpin the big message. The principles were developed in cooperation between the Ministry and a number of organisations and say that a good care service based on a holistic view of human beings based on participation, respect and dignity adapted to the individual needs of users, showing respect and care for relatives consisting of competent managers and employees emphasises health promotion activity and prevention measures are flexible, predictable and provide coordinated and holistic services are learning, innovative and innovative. A forward-looking service in line with these principles is user-driven personal assistance, BPA. The proposal sent by the government to the hearing violates the principle of an overall offer. The services, as the government suggests, will be fragmented because disabled people have to deal with more services and people. BPA will limit the possibility of participation and independence because BPA cannot be used outside its own municipality. The Christian People's Party proposes a right to BPA that is such that the user himself, according to his own assistance needs, can agree where, how, when and to which tasks BPA can be used. The Christian People's Party believes that modern aids, along with medical development, are essential for a good life for the elderly of tomorrow. Innovation and development for good, safe and sustainable services and well-being technologies are to take place in the municipalities. This will take place in partnership with users, relatives, non-governmental organisations, non-profit actors and businesses. The role of relatives is very important, and a programme for a forward-looking policy of relatives is good. Nevertheless, the Christian People’s Party believes that the government’s policy of its relatives is too passive and too slow. Individuals need action not only for the future but now. The family needs action that says, "You're doing a great job." We see that, and we value it! Citizens need predictability and security in their everyday lives – today and tomorrow. That is why we have long asked for an improved care pay system. In the hearing on the notification, both the Norwegian Epilepsy Association and the Norwegian Association of Developmentally Disabled Persons were very concerned with the parents who have suddenly lost their care, and thus do not have income when they have to care for seriously ill children. Such a practice is the opposite of appreciating the efforts of its relatives. The Christian People's Party believes that the government has to present a case to the Stortinget as soon as possible with proposals for improvements to the care scheme. Voluntary and non-profit institutions serving households are key partners in promoting innovation and development in health and care services. Historically, non-governmental organisations have seen the need for action among vulnerable groups and have started to provide services that the public has subsequently taken over. In the public inquiry Innovation in care, it was proposed that 25 p.m. of the overall care sector shall be organised and operated by non-profit actors by 2025. The Christian People's Party believes this is a good proposal, and we are today promoting a proposal that we ask the government to facilitate. The Christian People's Party also promotes a proposal that the government should urgently find solutions to the pension costs of the non-profit sector in health, care and child protection services. Innovation processes are associated with willingness to take risks. This is one of the main barriers to innovation in the municipal care sector. The Christian People's Party therefore believes that, in order to succeed in innovation, funds need to be set up to provide support for projects, such as: is done in Denmark. The Christian People's Party has previously proposed a fund for social innovation. Much in the message, and in the treatment in Stortinget, is not new. In fact, ergot therapists, physiotherapists and other health professionals have long been longing for what is now the trend — home rehabilitation or everyday rehabilitation. As many people say, this is what we learned in education – working with hands on the back, so that patients themselves can train and regain lost skills. The Christian People’s Party proposes the promotion of a national rehabilitation and rehabilitation plan for the development of services, both in municipalities and in the specialist health service. With that I will address the proposals that the Christian People's Party has made in the matter. My speaking time is now over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e1495	The representative Line Henriette Heimdal has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e1498	Tomorrow's care is an important big deal. It brings forward many good actions, which are fully supported by the Left. Without a doubt, we need an active and forward-looking related policy, increased use of voluntary, increased commitment to everyday rehabilitation, more innovation, research and better technology, to mention some of the key points in the communication. For the Left, Community solutions are an important part of the welfare state. We're going to have good, equivalent public care services. At the same time, I am very pleased that an overall committee agrees that all care tasks cannot be left to the public. Should a society go around, we're dependent on taking responsibility for each other. The left agrees with the other opposition parties that more hospitals must be built for the oldest and sickest. At the same time, I think it is important to spend a lot of resources on home-based care for those who can and will live at home. The left tends to say that municipalities have to offer a full caretaker, i.e. both well-developed home services and day services, nursing homes with and without the crew of the day and good nursing homes for those who need it. Tomorrow's care provides for a dedicated family programme, such as: shall facilitate the combination of professional activities with care. I am pleased that this is specifically focused on in the message. There is also a proper approach to facilitating good and flexible support schemes. I would like to draw your attention to a group that does not feel that there have been any signs of a better everyday life, either in the Kaasa Committee's report or in this message. This applies to parents of highly disabled children over 18 years of age and their ability to combine ordinary work with heavy care. Public auxiliaries have turned away from institutional care, and several parents have more responsibility for caring for disabled children, even after they have grown up. This means that there is a need to change the legislation, especially with regard to the right to care and care allowances – not just an improved care pay system. If we do not manage to solve these challenges in a good way, we risk several situations where young people live in a nursing home, even if their parents want the child to live at home. It's not a good policy of relatives, and it's not for the benefit of the disabled. Nor is it particularly socio-economic profitable. The big news we are debating today says that future labour shortages and voluntary care providers require solutions that make it easier to combine work and care. But I don't see any concrete measures to achieve this. When I challenged former Minister of Health Anne-Grethe Ström-Erichsen at the 18-year-old age limit, which prevents active relatives from receiving care and care allowances, she replied: ‘We would like to facilitate the combination of care activities with professional activities by relatives’. More media projections in recent times testify to anything other than a flexible regulatory framework, for example: the notice on Mikkel of 12 years, where the parents did not keep their allowance because the boy was a couple of hours too long at school per week. This has been strongly criticised by the Civil Ombudsman, without any positive results for the family. It is a rigid regulation for relatives of caring children under 18 years of age, but it is even more difficult for those who have children over 18 years of age but who are mentally acting as a child. It is too many caring children naturally to stay at home for a few more years while they are school students. Some want to continue living at home and receive care and care from their parents, even after finishing school. I would have liked some concrete measures in the communication that would have improved the situation for working relatives of very caring children. I hope this is something this, or next, government will take care of, even if there is nothing about this in this big message.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e1527	To further develop our welfare society and ensure close and good health and care services for tomorrow's users and patients are fundamental to all of us, and a priority for this government. We have built up capacity and quality in these services in the municipalities through the care plan 2015. With the Interaction Reform, we have strengthened health services close to where people live, with a greater focus on prevention. We have laid the groundwork for taking important steps forward. On Thursday, we invite you to a partnership for public health. We are being debated on the public health report in the Chamber. With today's debate on the big message tomorrow's care, we invite the entire community to an active co-responsibility. In municipalities, all – users and relatives, professionals and local politicians, non-profit institutions, communities, research and business – need to be involved in innovative cooperation to design tomorrow’s care. Innovation is about finding new ways and sustainable solutions, such as using new technologies that make everyday life easier. But it's just as much about playing with civil society to trigger good and local care models. I am therefore pleased – although the vote has many cross-cutting proposals – that a joint committee concludes that a good welfare service depends on everyone taking responsibility and actively participating in the community. Active co-responsibility – either formally through non-governmental organisations and user organisations or informally through family and social networks – contributes to creating trust and solidarity between generations. It builds our social capital – values on which the development of future care services needs to build. We will be many more elderly in Norway in the years to come. That's the welfare state's bonus and something we're going to be proud of. Many of the new older people will be healthy and contribute more to society than before. It's a resource we can't afford not to use. But still older people, and especially the older ones, will need the help of the community and the welfare state to meet their needs. There is a need for us to have an obligation to meet. Kåre Hagen, who led the work of the NOU on innovation in care, said: «The care crisis is not created by the ageing wave. It is created by the notion that care cannot be done differently from today.’ It's a call for new thinking. In the Communication, we show the opportunities that we as society and community have to address the needs of the future. We're still going to spend the big money on health and care. But at the same time, we need to work differently to succeed in mobilising society's total resources in a better way. I hope that this debate today will shed light on solutions for tomorrow and that there will be no terping on yesterday's battle. My wish is that the message should ensure that through innovation and innovation, we can continue to invest in the Community solutions we have built up in our country. The message has three main objectives: We are to acquire knowledge, explore, mobilise and deploy society's overall care resources in new ways. We need to develop new forms of care through new technologies, new knowledge, new professional methods and changes in organisational and physical frameworks. We need to support and strengthen the research, innovation and development of municipalities in this field. We need to mobilise for the joint effort on which this country is so good. We will cooperate with volunteers and relatives in new ways. We will set up a national voluntary strategy and a programme for an active and forward-looking policy of relatives. The combination of professional activity with care for children and young people, adults and the elderly with serious illness and disability shall be facilitated. We need to improve the care pay system and develop flexible relief schemes. Several men need to enter the care professions — we make the successful Men in Health from Trondheim a national measure. We're going to further bet on training volunteer coordinators in the direction of the Worldness Centre in Bergen. We want non-profit institutions to play a stronger role as well-being service providers in municipalities. Through cooperation, municipalities and non-profit actors will be better able to develop innovative actions. We shall facilitate sheltered acquisitions for non-profit actors and for long-term operating arrangements. Elder centres are a good example of measures to prevent solitude and inaction, which the Association of Pensioners has been involved in. In the voluntary strategy, we will stimulate the development of different forms of elderly and senior centres, to mention some examples. Tomorrow’s care shall consist of active care as well as care and relief. Both parts require competence. The interaction reform has led to better cooperation between hospitals and municipal health and care services and improved local health services. People who need hospitalization will get it. Hospital is an alternative when your needs cannot be resolved by your continuing to live at home, even with organisation. Therefore, the need for a nursing home is closely linked to the other services offered by the municipality. The nursing home of the future will look different, have more impact on being a home, have links with volunteers and have better cooperation with relatives. They want to invite the community in. And they're going to have competent personnel. Nursing and skilled workers should be proud to work in one of Norway’s most important jobs. We are already warning that the scheme of grants for newly built and rehabilitated health care facilities will continue after 2015. In hospitals there are also opportunities to work differently and better, raising the quality of life of those living there. It was mentioned earlier in the debate that when Bergen Red Cross's nursing home through music and monitoring patients' history, things to get up well-being and tranquillity among the patients, bring down the drug use, get more satisfied relatives, bring down the sick leave and succeed with it without having any significant more resources than other departments, we have to ask ourselves: are we good enough to learn from the success stories? If it works there, in Bergen, it must be possible to make it available elsewhere in the country. We will bring forward these success stories, give new methods the professional status they deserve and spread them systematically. The system of life assurance of nursing homes shall become a national system. But a one-sided focus on nursing homes will be going backwards into the future. I think that when many generations of Norwegians think about caring for the elderly, they automatically think about nursing homes. Most people want to stay at home as far as possible. Home services must be developed in such a way that users continue to have the most control over their own lives. Municipalities should aim to ensure that those in need of care have one contact person for coordinated services and seek to limit as far as possible the number of different persons. This will be developed in cooperation with KS and employees' organisations. Nurses, ergot therapists and physiotherapists have jointly developed a concept for everyday rehabilitation so that prevention and training can take place in one’s home environment, so that users can master the tasks of daily life. It means past efforts, and that the user's own personal goals are centered. We want to strengthen and spread this concept to more and more municipalities. The knowledge and models are there. All municipalities should now apply day-to-day rehabilitation. As it approaches the end of life, usually good care is the most important thing. It's about relieving pain, being seen and heard, washing and savoury and getting help to meet the last days of life. The goal is that unwholesome sick and dying and their relatives will experience the final phase of life as safely and meaningful as possible. We will develop a training programme for care staff to provide basic competence in care relief. People's homes need to be organized in such a way that they remain safe at home, even when physics or memory fails – or when one approaches the end of life. We also launch in the Communication a welfare technology programme to provide people with tools that provide better mastery and better lives. People with a need for care should also be able to use technology in a way that enriches their lives. Already in the revised national budget, we have launched incentives for this programme. The objective is that welfare technology should be part of the provision of services in the care services by 2020. The successful experience of building up a public care service to the extent and at the level we have done in Norway suggests that the challenges of the future must be met with two thoughts in mind at the same time: we will continue the best of what has been built up in the last 40 years, and be open to changing the course in important areas. Public care services have been growing continuously for decades. The service provision now covers users of all age groups. It is actually the number of recipients under the age of 67 who have had the strongest growth in the last 20 years. With the demographic challenges that await us fully in 10–15 years, we need to organise efforts to support and release the resources of users themselves, their families and social networks, in the neighbourhood, organisations and communities. It will require the conversion of professional activities, with a greater focus on prevention, early intervention and everyday rehabilitation. Social networking, more use of new technologies and new working methods are becoming important. At the same time, the care of the core must be processed and the medical follow-up strengthened. Uncertainty about economic development, as we see in many countries in Europe, suggests that not everything is ‘casted into concrete’. We must be able to provide good services even if there are changes in the economy, the labour market and the professional activity of its relatives. In the coming years, growth will be highest among the younger. Demographic changes therefore argue that growth in services should take place in home services, day services, rehabilitation and prevention, together with a strengthened primary health service. Think about this: If we go back 40 years in time, there were 20 000 people in the care profession. Now it's working 130 000. At that time we still picked up water in wells in parts of Oslo. People moved from homes with outdoors to modern blocks on Manglerud. We raised this society because we have taken stock, and because we have been committed to community solutions. The director and the wife were in the same hospital and the same hospital. We did it before, and we can do it again. The individual wallet should not determine whether you are well cared for. We have to offer solutions for everyone – but not for everyone, because justice is about treating people differently based on individual considerations and different needs. Only this way can people who depend to a greater or lesser extent on the care of the community continue to be the head of their own lives, even when physics and memory crunches. We will defend and develop the welfare state together. This big message shows the possibilities for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e1597	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e1600	The government is opposed to automatic government funding of the care of the elderly once the need has been established on a professional basis. Is the resistance of the government parties to this automation in a general distrust of the ability of primary health services to make professional judgements, or is there fear of increased costs that the government parties continue to choose to rationalise these services through framework funding?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e1605	I have to say that none of the explanations provided by the representative is comprehensive. We are trying to organise this part of our care sector close to where patients live – I understood from the post of the representative that he agreed. We believe it is right that society’s allocation of funds to that – which we have a great deal of will, among other things. by ensuring a strong local economy, including: by refraining from giving tens of billions of tax credits to those who have the most of them, is the best way to channel those funds. So I believe that the discussion of what the laws and regulations we set for the service is a political discussion we're going to have. However, I would warn against any specific needs in this sector being resolved by a new right, a new law, a new obligation. It is the right to health care that is the living principle. In our opinion, this is best solved – I also understand it in the government partners with whom the representative looks to cooperate, whether he gets the opportunity – through the way we organise the services.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e1612	Right agrees with what is the line in the message, that people will live at home as long as they have the opportunity and wish for it, but have the security to get to the institution when they need it. The Communication also describes a significant need for an increase in the number of institutional settings in the care of the elderly in the years to come. But there has been some uncertainty about what the government thinks when it talks about new places, more places or grant commitments etc. – whether it is multiple or new or rehabilitated. For this reason, I would like to take this opportunity to ask the Council of State quite specifically: when the main message under chapter 6.3.1 states: ‘Based on some assumptions, new projections suggest an additional need for some 15 000 new locations towards 2030’. And on that it will ‘requires around 3000 units per year at the most uniform rate of expansion up to 2030.’;» Are there any more places or places to be rehabilitated?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e1630	It could be a variation. As we've had a lot of discussions about in this room, a place like that might be. is converted into an exclusive space – from being two rooms – to being modernised. It could qualify to be such a place. In other contexts it may be that it is being built completely new. What municipalities need for the needs of their inhabitants is what is governing. I still believe that this debate is funny – similar about grants. I realize that there's almost an infinite conjuring board in that picture, but that's the way you do it. Grants are offered based on what the municipality needs, and it is built, and when the key is in the door, the money comes. We're in the process of meeting the targets we've set, and we're also going to be able to take this further towards the time horizons that the representative refers to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e1637	70,000 people have dementia today. It might be a double by 2040. We know that 9.3 pst. of people with dementia, have a daily offer. In 2005 it was 4 pst. who had such a daily offer. That is, in the last eight years there has been an increase of 5 pst. - under 1 pst. increase every year. We know that the government's policy is that they will legislate on the right to daily services when this offer is extended. My question to the Council of State is about the daily offer to people with dementia – 9.3 p.m. – is sufficiently structured so that the government can now intervene in the legislative process of this important offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e1648	The answer is no, that's not enough. When we say it must be a reality, I don't think we should necessarily wait for it to be 100 pst. But it must be a reality before going to law enforcement. I am becoming more and more detained with regard to the fact that lawmaking is the answer to all these solutions – as I have said several times in this debate. Now we have stepped up the use of tools that allow municipalities to finance the start-up of day services. It has been a challenge to bring the municipalities to the attention of this system and to see the possibilities in it. I have been worried about it, but I see that there is now an acceleration in the use of the system by the municipalities, and those who do are satisfied. I hope we're going to see a clear increase in these places. It is a real increase in the quality of life for the demented – and not least for their relatives. Then there will be an appropriate time when you can make this a statutory right, which my party also agreed to at their national meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e1659	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e1662	Tomorrow's concern is about thinking differently and smarter. We know that we live longer, and that therefore we will most likely need care services over a longer period. It can give us a challenge with enough health professionals, so we have to think differently and smarter. With new technologies and better solutions, many can cope better in everyday life, despite sickness and disability. Welfare technology can give individuals both more freedom and the ability to participate more actively. We have recently adopted a change to the law that allows dents to be equipped with GPS when they are going on their way. It gives security to relatives, but not least it gives freedom to the individual user, the freedom to go wherever you want, whenever you want – and alone, if you want. Technology can be so often. A few years ago, the committee was in Japan. There we saw the electronic harness and what it meant for demente. Here in Norway, selenium has had an undeserved reputation. We got to see how they used the harness in conversations with the demented – patients who had completely lost their language, but who, when they were in contact with the harness with the staff, started talking again. It was very nice to see how they lighted up and became engaged. There are many good technological solutions that are not yet in use. That is why I am pleased that we have municipalities that are innovative and willing to think new things, such as: Fredrikstad and Sarpsborg, participants in the EU eSenior project. They have involved the users, had conversations and identified what the need is for the individual. The project aims to pilot up to 250 homes with welfare technology for seniors so that they can live longer at home with good safety and quality of life. They're doing well and they've already put a lot of new technology into use. A lot of people are worried about technology taking over the hot hands. Of course it won't. But I must say that I would have preferred to have a sensor in my bed that could tell if it got wet there, rather than that someone would come to me in the middle of the night to stick his hand under the dune to know if it was wet. It would give a double win – not only did the caretaker pull out to check out, but I also didn't get woken up in the middle of the night. Innovation and thinking smart necessarily don't have to mean that you're going to turn everything upside down. Sometimes there are very small, simple solutions that give a countdown – like those who used vests on the caregivers who distributed medications to patients, so that others would not interfere with them while distributing medications. They were able to significantly reduce mismedication – a simple grip that brought great benefits. There are examples showing that there is a lot to learn from care innovations. Therefore, it is good that the government now implements technology programmes that will work on the establishment of open standards for welfare technology, development and testing in municipalities – and disseminate knowledge and experience on welfare technology solutions and develop good models for the introduction and use of welfare technology. Technology is important, but equally important are assistants that help people gain freedom to control their own lives. That is why I am pleased that the government has sent to the hearing a rights-holding of BPA for users with high needs. Some organisations have expressed concerns that the scheme will be weakened. That doesn't lead to correctness. The scheme is based on the obligation of the municipality today. There is nothing in the rights fixing that weakens the BPA system, but you do not solve all the challenges surrounding the organisation of the BPA. These are the challenges we're very concerned about, and we want to work on further. The important thing now is to get the rights fixation in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e1681	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e1684	This Communication integrates into the range of policy issues that address — and respond to — major future challenges in Norway. The reform of pensions, the reform of disability, the reform of cooperation and the reform of the Nav are important and necessary hindrances. A general objective of the Workers' Party is to compensate for social inequalities in working life, health and care services. The job strategy and universal design include, inter alia: the means of achieving this. However, I would like to point out a small group of people who have major challenges in the care field. There are people who have Huntington's disease and their spouses and children. It is a challenging progressive disorder, of course in the first place for the patient, but also for spouses and children – and not least for caregivers. The Norwegian Women's Sanitation Association, in cooperation with the Public Care Service, has developed networks of expertise in North Norway, West Norway, Middle Norway and East Norway, which are of great value to relatives and users. I would like Huntington patients and their relatives in South Norway to receive such an offer, and I expect that there is something that will be worked on further to the next year's budget. Then I will praise Sørlanden Hospital and all the municipalities of Agder. There's the innovation. It's almost like you don't believe it. Agreements have now been made on electronic interaction between hospitals and all 30 municipalities in Agder. In the drug sector, it is seen in the Jegersberg farm, a rehabilitation measure for drug addicts where private business, care services — both in the municipality and treatment facilities in hospitals — and the voluntary sector are included in order to have a good rehabilitation and an individual approach to those who are users there. This Communication points the way, and it shows that cooperation and community will increase patient safety and the quality of both treatment, rehabilitation and care. I would like to remind you that a prerequisite to succeed in the overall objectives of cohesion of social differences is to have an extra focus on those groups that are numerically few – those with chronic and complex disorders, somatic, mental or drug-related, and their children. These groups are getting older today than a few years ago, and they need care and treatment — often in a life-cycle perspective. I am absolutely convinced that the best way to provide caretaker security in the future is to ensure secure, predictable financing of services. The solution of the right-hand side – tax cuts and commercialised privatisation – draws the Community’s values from the national accounts to the bank accounts of directors, where profits are often placed in so-called tax havens. It's not new, and it's not good, especially for those groups that need the most care. The objectives of care services are similar. However, the means of reaching them are very different.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e1699	Tomorrow's care is good news, not least for my generation. That's actually what we've been waiting for, we're now approaching a hopefully active retirement life. This is a Communication based on the assumption that municipalities will continue to be responsible for municipal health and care services in the future, and where the State must be an important contributor to innovation and development and competence work locally and regionally. The Storting Communication draws up important premises for active cooperation between municipalities and voluntary sector and with family, close networks and civil society in general. The innovation work to find good solutions must, among other things: focus on the design and testing of new models for future institutional and housing solutions and on the development of good everyday tools to master the daily challenges. ‘Cooperation’ is a key word in achieving the new ambitious objectives of this important welfare area and we need to seek to explore the innovation potential of businesses, research environments and other innovative environments. The government parties believe, as several representatives have pointed out, that public responsibility for and operation of care services for the population, with ideal actors and voluntary sector as good and important partners. It is only a public care model that can ensure that all the resources we deploy benefit all patients and users, that the service provision is predictable and that the resources are distributed fairly. We believe that the experience of extensive commercialisation of care shows that this does not provide better services, that it does not promote innovation, and that services cannot be carried out cheaper without compromising pay and pension conditions for employees. Both in Sweden and in a number of other countries, we see that the larger and fewer health groups with tax havens address the competitive part of the care field. It contributes to significant amounts being brought out of the country without tax being paid, and there is a practice that the Workers' Party does not want to get foothold here with us. One of the most important things we can do to strengthen tomorrow's care, is to acknowledge the idea that humans have spiritual and cultural needs throughout their lives, regardless of the life situation, that we are social beings who are seeking meaningful fellowship, and that good experiences, joys and ways of life are qualities that we must actively integrate into the new care solutions. We can see that today's care has not been successful enough to counteract loneliness and isolation. Therefore, we need not only new ideas about physical and economic tools, but also more wide-ranging ideas about what it means to be an entire human being in the many different phases of life.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e1710	The first ageing plan was presented in the spring of 1997. I was responsible for following up this and for the Storing Message Care 2000. When I read the message of the day, and when I listen to the posts here in the room about tomorrow's care, I have to say that I am slipping over everything that has happened during these 16 years. In this message care 2000 the group was first described in a big message. I later met people who went to further education, on geriatrics, who read this message again. It's been said that there's a lot of words here, but there's a connection between words and actions that are now being followed up year after year. The interaction reform was crucial. Health and care services are now being strengthened where people live. The interaction reform was an example of local fires being taken seriously, local initiatives being able to monitor, district medical centres being put in place and standing by themselves as a concrete expression of the importance of building up different measures locally. Stoneware, Ferens, Egersund and even more — different, but with a common goal customising local services. ‘Pre-construction’, ‘early effort’ and ‘care at the end of life’ are now understood by most people as talking about how to solve them locally. So the committee has underlined something that I think is very important. It is that the Interaction Reform means a decentralisation of health and care services, which only succeeds if skills and professionals are also decentralised, and the municipalities are able to achieve the expected commitment. Of the district medical centers – we all know someone – I've followed most of the way to the Dalane District Medical Centre. I sometimes get a feeling that there is someone in the central hospital management who doesn't realize that innovation can take place even outside the main hospitals. And then finally, I have to underline how great it is that one now has a goal of a new policy of reindeer. It has to watch out for action. Eldresentra – with the great importance they have – must be further developed, and then it must build even more concretely on the large potential of the voluntary sector in this field as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e1721	The representative of Meltveit Kleppa told me that much has happened. There's a lot we've talked about before, among other things. in the case of bets in elderly centres. There's nothing new, but we're standing there today. It concerns the daily provision of demented or preventive home visits for over 75 years of age. These are three good measures that are well documented. They prevent disease, they promote social and physical activity, they promote better nutrition, yes, they expose care needs. That's exactly why the Christian People's Party is impatient, because we have evidence that this helps and that it provides increased quality of life, both for the individual and for the nearest. That is why, in the past, we have proposed to legislate on these measures, and we are doing so in the current vote. In particular, we want a legalization of the daily offer to demente. Today – in 2013 – has at the base of 10 p.m. of all people with dementia a day's offer. Then we believe that the time has come to lift some of the most important things in order to increase the quality of life, both for the people involved and for the relatives. We believe that if we had legalized the daily offer to people with dementia, we would have given a clear signal to the municipalities that they had to intensify their efforts to place such offers. When the Council of State said to me in its reply in the reply to the reply, that the municipalities were not aware of the tools that were there, it was an explanation that I did not recognize. What I am told when I hear about municipal administrations and municipal politicians is that there is no operational means for these daily services. You have the investment funds – yes, they are there. During the consultation of this Communication, it was asked whether the investment funds could not be transferred to operation. That was what the patient organisations took up during the consultation in this area. But that you are not aware of the tools you have, it is not known to me. Christian People's Party and I once again want to make a proposal to legislate for this offer to show how important it is to give increased quality of life to this group. When, over the last eight years, we haven't been able to increase daily supply to dents by more than 5 pst., it has to be stronger than just wanting a better everyday life for these.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e1734	The message of tomorrow's care shows the way forward. It presents good ideas and exciting solutions to people, to employees and to society. We're getting older, and we're also getting more and more healthy older. As development takes place elsewhere in the welfare community, older people also become more aware of the quality of the services they demand, and this places new demands on municipalities in their recruitment and employment policies. The health sector – with all the thousands of good people working there every single day – needs to be talked about, or talked about much more, in order to capture the interest of new generations of health workers. Another challenge is to recruit boys as health workers. Here there is a large unused reserve upon which we will depend in the future. We're getting older. It is the quality stamp of the welfare society. Our older caregivers deserve active care of high quality. Some of these services are provided as home-based services, and for those who can no longer live at home, we need to ensure that we build a sufficient number of hospitals. The target of 12,000 new nursing and nursing homes in 2015 is well within reach. Some municipalities have tendered out the old ones. Yes, some municipalities have even privatized the entire care of the elderly. In a case where all the hospitals in the municipality are privatised, the freedom of choice will be lost. For example, let me draw a picture of a privatized care service where the stopwatch has spoken. It has said 10 minutes to wash, 3 minutes to diaper change, 6 minutes to change of clothes, 15 minutes to breakfast – an arrangement put up for competition through an international tender, with a mark on the desired profit. I want the freedom to choose a municipal service without a stopwatch, but managed by health, nursing and care professionals who have time to show respect for my situation. When I get nurturing, a municipal employee will stand for a possible diaper change and wash. The benefit of this treatment shall not end with a health group with the address of a tax haven. I hope I don't experience the scenario I've outlined here. I would rather enjoy the picture of tomorrow's care – a safe, innovative and forward-looking care service that exploits technological opportunities and human competence in the best possible way and in public terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e1748	The quality and content of tomorrow’s care in Norway are linked to the choice of policy direction today and the good implementation of the policy. We're becoming a lot of good adults and a lot of older people, and that's one thing I appreciate more for every year that goes. In the optimism of the peace in 1945, the birth rate doubled in Norway, and all the inhabitants born in 1946 are going to be 67 this year. The health and care sector will need many good staff in the coming years. In the report ‘Work Market for Health and Social Workers by 2030’, the Central Statistical Agency describes the evolution of supply and demand for a total of 20 groups of personnel. When all groups are considered together, there will be a deficit of up to 40000 annual works at the end of the period. If a higher demand-side alternative is used, it will be more than twice as large. We know that it takes time to train professionals, so we need to get good recruitment in time. The education sector and healthcare must interact. A successful care sector depends on both the right educational capacity and the status of care professionals, so that young people choose the sector. The underbalance of future health professionals varies considerably between different groups. The main picture is that the capacity of university education is close to being covered, while there will be considerable under-coverment of health professionals from secondary school. There is therefore a cause for concern when figures from the Special Health Calculation Committee show that the number of health professionals in Norwegian hospitals has fallen significantly between 2002 and 2008. This trend is accentuated by a large lack of practice places. I am concerned about this development. The future need for annual work in health and care can be improved by the proper use of skills, by the fact that several annual works come into direct contact with those in need of assistance, and by reducing the use of involuntary part-time care. The political reality of the situation is that we cannot manage to create equivalent healthcare for everyone in the future without more health professionals. Both the public and private sectors must, in their own interest, cooperate well with secondary schools and offer more apprenticeships.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e1763	I just want to clarify a little bit. In the exchange of replies with the representative, Höie, there was a question of whether there were new places in the future, and I might have expressed myself a little unclear there. What the report mentions in Chapter 3.5.3 on the needs of good luck is, of course, to look ahead in the light of the evolution of the population. Thus, it has been shown that in 2011, care services provided for some 63 000 happy days, divided into 41,000 institutions and 22,000 people living in happy homes. Then there is a projections of the population, which show that the need for lucky day care places could increase by almost 15 000 by 2030 and by 45 000 by 2050, and this is a trend that is the same as for personnel needs, and it takes off from 2025 in particular. But what's interesting – and that's the title of the NOU, that's innovation – is that we have to think new. This projection is based on a premise that we're doing the same way and with the same standard as today, and I hope that this is going to be changing – for the better – and that both the standard and the way to do it can change. It is also likely that some places will be laid down, simply because they do not reach the standard you want, and therefore we can also see alternatives to postponing the need for lucky days' care. But this is well mentioned in the message, so there should be no misunderstanding about it. I would like to say to the representative, Mr. Hemdal, that I am very engaged in getting daily offers for denments. I've visited several of them, and I think this is a very important effort. So we fully agree on that, but where I think we can separate layers, is when the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party want it from 1 January 2015 by law to be both mandatory and day-to-day for people with dementia. The representative also says that it's about 10 pst. coverage today. I don't have that number here, but now let's say that's right -- we're going to go from 10 to 100 pst in a year and a few months. I believe that is a wrong use of adopting such obligations. I think it's right to say that we'll adopt that court when we're close to achieving the goal. And the representative says that it doesn't keep up with investment and operating resources, but that it has to “strengthen the lye” to – law. Then I want to say that we need to invest more in the means that are needed to do that. It also requires personnel. They must exist, they must be motivated and they must be trained. It is not that the municipality does not know about this scheme, but it has been enough – both because of this with operation and investment – to refuse to invest in it. Now we're beginning to see that this gets loose, and then we have to invest more in it, grant the money, get the staff trained – Demensorgens ABC etc. – and then we can gradually approach the goal we all share, that this is a right. But we are not quite there, and that is why I am sceptical about the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e1779	Finally, in this debate, I would like to say a little more about welfare technology. The right has been the driving force both at national and local level to implement this technology, and we have already adopted a number of proposals for a more offensive policy in this area at our 2011 national meeting. Most older people want to stay in their homes for as long as possible, even when the need for extra care and more assistance is reported. For each individual, it is about preserving his dignity and independence, his commitment and his activity. In this perspective, technological development opens up many new opportunities and solutions that could provide greater security for individuals as well as for relatives. We know that care tasks will double in a few years, and that there will be fewer health workers to do them. Caring is becoming more and more home-based – so we think away well, but at home best. Technology is currently available in addition to a safety alarm that can contribute to greater self-driving, safety and safety. There are obvious ethical issues related to welfare technology and it is therefore important to use time to assess the boundaries between safety and monitoring. The protection of privacy must be properly safeguarded. Cooperation with users, relatives, employees and authorities on ethical issues must be central. A central question is which values could be threatened by the use of care technologies and which values could be threatened by the non-use of care technologies. This issue, I believe, shows the need for ethical reflection to be crucial for our ability to act in the best interests of the user. Care technology shall not replace human contact and care. It does not take care of the meeting between people, and care becomes unfaced and can never be a substitute for the relationship we are going to have with the weakest among us. It can create loneliness and alienation, but it can also dampen the experience of the same thing. Technology can be seen as liberating, promoting mastering and independence, but also being offensive and controlling. There is a need to strengthen the ethical competence of professionals and politicians, so that ethically challenging situations are handled in a well-reflected and good way. Care technologies in combination with human contact and care can be positive, but the Right clearly distances itself from a care technology that is used to enhance profitability and efficiency at the expense of human dignity and contact.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e1794	I believe that the big message, and not least the description in the NOU, means that we should meet these challenges with an optimistic starting point, namely the belief that this too is a societal challenge that we are able to solve. It will be about capacity, it will be about good enough competence in services, but not least it will also be about innovation, the ability to find new solutions to manage them in our society that need help, assistance or rehabilitation, so that they can better manage themselves. What maybe -- at least the way I look at it -- is one of the biggest challenges, is simply to get a change in culture. We can all count to capacity, we can count to the number who have received continuing education or have a vocational training in the ministry, but it is much harder for us to decide to count ourselves to a cultural change in the service. It is also the experience experienced by the Committee when we reviewed the research that has been carried out on the changes that have been tried in Denmark — that many have tried to copy, but few have done so, because it has been difficult to change the way a job is done. It's about going from the traditional idea of entering and providing a service, to changing to the fact that a person should actually contribute to the individual being more able to choose what is important for one and continue to do so — that is, to think about rehabilitation instead of traditional care. What is the quality of these services? When you talk to the users and their relatives, there are often other things that are drawn out in terms of quality, other than the things that the municipalities or the public measure as a result: that's the ability to run with the interests, the hobbies you had before. It is the opportunity to be stimulated by a good conversation with people with common interests, to have cultural experiences and not least to experience the joy of a good meal. We may also need to clarify this experienced quality when discussing the content of these services. The representative Lillehovde was concerned that the profit for his possible future diapers did not end up in a tax haven. I'm not so very concerned about it, but I'm very concerned that those who are older and need a change of lead are not going to feel that every single day new people come in and carry out the change of lead, but that a few people get to act like you know, and avoid the uncertainty that many people experience in today's services.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e1807	The President assumes that it has no purpose, but will nevertheless remind us that we have a very long evening and a long night in front of us in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e1810	Thanks for the reminder. I'm glad that the representative Hemdal is so busy with day care for demente, but I'm going to have to comment on her somewhat creative percentage. In fact, when the representative's party went out of government in 2005, it was 4 pst. of living quarters that had a daily offer. The figure in 2012 was 9.3 p.m. of the 42,000 residents of the home. This says the representative Hemdal is an increase of 5 pst. Had she even used the term 'percentage points', it might have been possible to let it pass. Another way to think about it is there's an increase of 120 pst. That's more than a double. That's definitely not the point; we agree on the need to strengthen this offer. From 2007 to 2012, 14 000 employees in 370 municipalities have completed dental training. The medical service in nursing homes is strengthened by more than 50 pst. Nearly 240 municipalities have related services. 243 municipalities have dementia team or dementia coordinator – it is a double from 2007. The funding for care research has increased strongly – the investment in 2005–2015 is 250 million. kr – and not least, we have greatly improved the local economy, which allows municipalities to give priority to care services at large. And as I said, the share of living quarters with daily services is more than double. As a relative, I have experienced the importance of day care both for the sick and for the relatives. No one should be in doubt about the sincere desire of the Workers' Party to strengthen this offer. We're not in the goal, but we're on the right track.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e1821	At least I want to thank you for many good posts by you. This is a care debate that is not just about counting sick homes, and I think it has been very good to listen to. We may disagree about lawmaking or not, but now there is a greater focus on content in service provision and not just capacity, and that we recognize that it has been and is missing – especially with regard to activity and the possibility of social community, and this by taking culture, music and medstring focus into the quality of care provision. One example is that men over 80 years of age in Norway are the top suicide statistics. What I mean is, I'm a statistic that we can't be content with, and the conversion that's now happening, I think I'll actually be able to contribute in that area as well. We recognize that we are not in the target, but that there is going to be a professional change, and I think it is very nice to be here at Stortingen today when this matter is decided. One will deploy the overall care resources of society, new policies for its relatives, and increase the commitment to voluntary action. After all, we have a good deal compared to a lot of other countries – with high coverage both of health places and home services. But we have to recognize that this is not enough when we see the challenges that we will face in the future. We have to think in a new way. I have travelled a part of Hordaland in connection with this case, and I will mention two municipalities. One is Lindås, a pilot municipality for welfare technology. Their clear message was that as important as new technology was implementing the technology that exists – because there is a lot. The problem is that the municipalities haven't been good enough to take him in. The second thing they said was that this must happen at the same time as professional conversion. It's not the technology that's the goal, but it has to happen together with a professional conversion. The second municipality is Voss. They are the community of projects for everyday rehabilitation. They were selected because they had 100 pst. municipal services. They had no private service providers. I haven't thought about it before, but when the goal is to do yourself, it might not be the big drive if it's a private home helper. There were several users who had called in and said, "Now I have reached my goal." I have cancelled home help. It was very nice to hear.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e1836	The representative Line Henriette Hemdal has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e1839	I am very pleased that the Minister of Health is busy with daily services for people with dementia. When the representative Håkon Haugli was heard, it could be thought that the government could soon be involved in legalizing the obligation to provide daily services when it is so well developed. But what the National Public Health Association said at the hearing was that for the current year, only 20 pst. of the funds used, and in 2012 there was a under-use of the funds to be used for daily supply to people with dementia. As I understand it, the government expects them to have a daily offer two to three days a week. But for most of us, there are seven days a week, and five of them we're working or doing other things. This should form the basis for the definition of when you have a fully-fledged daily offer for people with dementia.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e1844	Others have not asked for the word on case 9. At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 10 and 11 are being debated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e1872	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. It is also proposed that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e1881	Good, functional and modern health buildings are important for providing patients with good health and providing good employment to employees. Capacity challenges with corridor Asians and queues to the operating rooms are unfortunate for patient safety. We know that how departments and functions are positioned can be of great importance for efficiency. Population growth, the ageing population and the development of medical technology make new demands. Where do we need new hospitals, how big are they going to be, and what are they going to contain? The hospitals we already have need to be maintained and changed in line with needs. New and changed needs require good planning. The right has proposed the development of a national health improvement plan to ensure the maintenance and faster renewal of hospital property. As part of the plan, there should be an assessment of the needs for maintenance, upgrade and initial investment for the properties of specialist health services. Multiconsult estimated in 2007 that there is a need for improvement in hospitals of 55 billion. kr. In 2011, the National Audit Service addressed a maintenance need of 19 billion. kr. Local, regional and national plans for construction and property management in the specialist health service are largely lacking. According to the National Audit Office, only five out of 23 health companies have decided both the objectives and the long-term plan for the building stock. Weaknesses are also noted in the choice of the concept for hospital buildings and in the calculation of the efficiency gain associated with new buildings. Furthermore, the Right proposes that the plan contain a long-term plan for financing maintenance, upgrade and initial investment. In its consultation, the Danish medical association highlighted experiences from Denmark. In the years from 2008 to 2011, there has been an investment package divided into 16 different hospital projects. Three of them were new university hospitals. The other projects concerned modernisation, conversion and expansion. The aim of the investment was to increase the quality and productivity of hospitals. The medical association believes that there is a need for a similar investment in Norway, and they have estimated the need to be 70 billion. kr over a 10-year period of 10 billion. of which they are going to investment in medical-technical equipment. The right also proposes that the health building plan should include an adjustment to the current funding legislation whereby 70 pst. the costs of major initial investments may be financed by loans. It is gratifying to note that this is exactly what the government will achieve. It has been six months since the opposition proposed it for the first time, but the government has promoted this as a matter last week. Today, according to the Health Enterprises Act, regional health enterprises have an overall responsibility for operation and investment. It is proposed to establish a separate health building organisation to ensure the maintenance and faster renewal of hospital buildings. Parallels are drawn here to state buildings and defence buildings as property companies in the public sector. The Medical Association supports this proposal in its consultation input and refers to the possibilities offered by the organisation for permanent competence and experience learning in the management of hospital buildings. The majority, consisting of the parties to the Government, propose that the proposal for a representative be annexed to the Minutes. The minority, consisting of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party, supports the proposal that, in the context of a more operational national health and hospital plan, a part be developed that deals with better health buildings. I address the proposal to which I have referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e1904	The representative Line Henriette Hemdal has taken up the proposal to which she referred, i.e. the proposal of the Party of Advancement, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e1907	I shall refer to the majority's views on the matters under consideration in this article. Initially, I agree with the proposers that over several years, there have been major challenges related to capacity, patient flow and information flows in hospitals in the Oslo region. Such a large-scale reorganization as the one we see here has been demanding and has brought great challenges. It has affected and engaged health professionals and, in particular, the local population. This was also not unexpected when we were faced with a change in the country's largest land-based activity measured in terms of number of people. The proposers propose an estimate for the use of available capacity in private hospitals. This is not supported by the majority, as we believe that this proposal will facilitate discrimination against private and public hospitals in favour of private hospitals, because the private commercial hospitals can therefore choose which patients they are willing to investigate and treat, while the public hospitals will be left with the extensive and complex operations. While public hospitals have to give high priority to each day within defined budget frameworks, commercial actors will be able to choose patients without prioritisation as to who needs help first. The plural portions do not want such a system. Proposalers talk about efficient use of resources and the development of sufficient capacity. I can assure you that the government parties are at least equally concerned with resource and capacity utilisation. While proposers want the daily responsibility for this to lie in the Stortingen, the majority believe that the Stortingen should draw up policies and clarify the framework and that the operational responsibility should lie with health businesses. They are the ones who are the closest to assessing how, within a given framework, hospitals can be managed both in terms of operation and expansion. This brings me to the treatment of Document 8:54 S, which deals with better health structures. Good and timely health building is something we all want, and as a joint committee believes is a prerequisite for providing the best health care. Today’s government has been preparing the ground for this over the last few years by the fact that the economy of hospitals is now in order. After major financial losses that we inherited from the previous government, the hospitals are now stronger than ever. They deliver good results, treat more people and more diseases. In addition, they can now also invest in the future. Balancing the hospital economy has been a heavy but necessary process. This has also created a lot of turbulence in health regions. Everything has not been quiet while this work has been going on. No, on the contrary – modernisation work and new construction have been in parallel. Until now, this work has been carried out under public authority — of course by the fact that the construction projects have been tendered under international law, so that there has been competition in the private market for all these tasks. I record that the proposers, not unexpectedly, with enthusiasm point to Sweden, Denmark and the United Kingdom where, until now, OPS has been regarded as the good and forward-looking model for the development of both transport and other public infrastructure. When the government parties in this case draw up hospital building at the New Karolinska Solna hospital as an example of the suitability of OPS in this sector, it is because the reality description of the proposers is in stark contrast to the description in Swedish media and among Swedish health professionals. These refer to the OPS project as a scandal, which is supported by a report prepared by the Swedish conservative think tanker Timbro. This report concludes that New Karolinska has ended up at a much higher cost than the alternatives. In England it is now recognised by both finance ministers and prominent economists that OPS has been devastating to public health. Animals OPS contracts have imposed on hospitals such a large liability that the health offer now needs to be cut in order to meet the obligations towards private investors. In England, they have 20 years of experience in this type of contract and now see the full and complete consequence of the experiment. From the government parties we will warn against OPS contracts in public development projects with the simple justification: it becomes too expensive for society, for patients and for those who come after us.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e1933	The background to the issues we are dealing with now is the great need I think we all see for a comprehensive plan for better health construction in general and the proposal of the Progress Party on a separate strategy for the hospital challenges in the Oslo region. It has been raised beyond any doubt that there is a great need both on the building and on the equipment side in Health-Norway. It has also been raised beyond doubt that modern construction and new medical devices contribute to better health, better and more efficient patient care, better results and not least better working conditions for all those working in Norwegian hospitals. For example, the Medical Association believes that an investment plan should possibly have a total of 70 billion. kr over a 10-year period of 10 billion. kr of these should go to investment in medical devices. There are both higher and lower estimates than this, in many reports over time. In this case, the red-greens use a lot of space to give a false image of a previous government, and have comments that are marked by a memory shift. I think it's better to spend time on the future and the challenges we're facing than to argue about the past. So I'm going to leave it to me and concentrate on the solutions for the future. New and modern hospitals, new medical devices and better management of hospitals’ buildings and properties will release funds for more and better patient treatment. More rational use of premises and the possibility of using new and more effective treatment services are beneficial for patients and employees. Therefore, the opposition promotes proposals for a more operational national health and hospital plan, some of which are intended to address better health buildings. This plan shall ensure better maintenance and faster renewal of hospital premises. In particular, we believe in the opposition that such a plan should assess the need for maintenance, upgrade and initial investment for the properties of specialist health services. It is important to assess this nationally and not just piecefully and splitly — see the overall need. This is both to make good, priority choices, and, as a national parliament, to see the whole country together. Furthermore, there should be a long-term, national funding plan for maintenance, upgrade and initial investment. This is important in order to exploit the capacity available, as well as possible, but also to lie in front and not as today, where we are constantly trying to repair on maturity, but never seems to be able to lie ahead. Unfortunately, there are many hospital projects around the country, where hundreds of millions of dollars are spent on necessary maintenance rather than building new ones. I myself was visiting the hospital in Molde a few days ago, expressing great frustration at spending money on temporary measures when they all wanted to invest in a new and future-oriented hospital. Bed posts at the hospital in Westfold are another example, where a lot of money is now to be spent on temporary measures, when everyone knows that new bed posts are required and have actually been planned many years ago. The list could have been done much longer. This is because the Progress Party proposes a multi-annual investment plan for construction and medical devices. We believe it is necessary to make a clearer distinction between operation and investment in public budgets. This also applies in the context of healthcare. The current situation is in practice such that patient treatment becomes harmful for hospitals to have the means to finance new construction or maintenance. Alternatively, the maturity of the building stock is even greater, as hospitals give priority to patient treatment. This means that decisions may be taken that are not optimal, neither socio-economic nor health professionals. Another proposal the opposition has is an adjustment to today’s funding legislation whereby 70 pst. the costs of major initial investments may be financed by loans. As I have understood from the media, the Health Council agrees with this proposal. I think that's very nice, and I take it for granted that he recommends the red-green parties to vote for this proposal. Finally, let me briefly address the challenges in Oslo. The Progress Party believes it is important to highlight the growing population growth in the Oslo region and its impact on hospital capacity. Over a number of years, the Oslo region has had a large influx, and there is no reason to believe that this will not continue in the coming years as well. With the conversion you have at the hospitals in Oslo, it is important to take this seriously. I would talk a lot more about Oslo and the process. But it's not time. All I have time to do is bring up the proposals that the Progress Party has on its own or is with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e1954	The representative Per Arne Olsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e1957	First of all, I would like to refer to the statements made by the rapporteurs and the statement by the representative Per Arne Olsen, who has presented the content of these proposals in a good way. The right considers it essential to have a much more operational and national health and hospital plan anchored in the Stortinget. Our health services are facing significant investments and changes in the health service, including: needs large new hospitals in many of the areas of the country where there is a high population growth. These are issues that should have been considered in the context of other health care issues and which should have been anchored in a discussion in the United Kingdom about the priority and the order of the different major investments. Now, more or less, this comes as a briefing to the Storting in relation to the annual budgets, with only systematic connection to the pre-defined debt financing. These are investments and changes that will affect the entire structure of the specialist healthcare service and are perceived — locally — as some of the most important decisions taken, but where no directly elected body is involved in the decisions. It is also seen that the current investment regime does not provide the basis for the type of investment needed in the future. The representative of Lillehovde referred to the United Kingdom, where he considered that investment costs had been found to lead to a reduction in patient treatment. I can then inform the representative, Lillehöde, that there is virtually all healthcare companies in Norway today. The future need for investment today leads to a reduction in patient treatment in Norway, precisely because there is such a high level of self-financing that in areas it is not going up. There is a growth in the patient base, hospital buildings and infrastructure that are too poor to cope with this growth, while at the same time treating more patients and saving money for new investments. You can see that most places don't go up. As a result, in the near future – probably – some health company governance will adopt billions of investments which, at the time of the investment and the building completion, have already expired and do not have the capacity needed, because the framework we now have, the regime we have today, does not provide the basis for making the wisest decisions. That is why the Right makes these proposals – anchor them in a national health and hospital plan, establish a separate company responsible for the planning, operation and maintenance of the buildings. We will leave the management responsible for the core health care activities, which are patient treatment, with the possibility of concentrating on it, while other organisations that want to be at the core of construction have the opportunity to concentrate on it, as seen in both defence, in the university and higher education sectors, and in other areas of the state. We have also called for a proposal – already in the alternative state budget for 2013 – to increase the possibility of lending 70pst., compared with 50pst., which is the current regime. It is with great pleasure that we record that the Minister of Health and Welfare is now supporting this proposal. In order to enable the government parties to support the proposal in Stortinget today, I would ask that it be voted separately above paragraph 3 of proposal No. 1 in the case. Many governments are now discussing crucial issues related to this, and it would be good if the Stortinget today made it clear that this is already going to be part of the state budget for 2014 – that it expresses what is probably the situation, that this is something that has unanimous support in the Stortinget. Opening up public–private cooperation on construction is a way of organising this that we believe should be possible. This does not mean that this should be the rule – that it should always be done this way – but it should be done when you think it is a practical and sensible solution. No model is perfect, but there will be different solutions that fit at different times. I'm taking up the proposal from the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e1976	The representative Bent Höie has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e1979	This proposal makes more proposals on how to improve the maintenance and speed up the renewal of hospitals' own property. In addition, we handle a Document 8 proposal on hospital challenges in the Oslo region. To that proposal, I just want to refer to the comments we have in the vote. To document 8:54 S, on better health construction, I have some comments. The proposal envisages the development of a national plan for better health construction. The last point under proposal No. 1 concerns the establishment of an own health building organisation to ensure better maintenance and faster renewal of hospital buildings, so that they become more functional and modern. There's a little paradox here. The Central Party respects the fact that today we control hospitals through a business model. When one does, the parties that were in any case in favour of it have said that they would then take responsibility and have finances for maintenance and for investment. To raise this in a new organisation, a company – I hear a different word is used – will exempt a company from liability for investment and operations. Then there will be a whole new way of managing the hospital services. It is also signaled by the Council of State that there is an ongoing assessment of a national hospital planning agency. It may be a point that one can use each other's competences and gather them together, but the point that the responsibility must be local is not to go away. So to the proposal for a plan to set up some public–private cooperation projects. I also want to show you the result from England. In a report that the Trade Union has made, which is called Animal and Stupid, by Hallvard Bakke, the conclusion is that it is 12 pst. more expensive to drive. It is also shown in the setting to New Karolinska Solna and the experiences there. I can understand that there are some ideological differences here, but I can't understand that one can suggest that one should establish a ‘some’ public-private cooperation project. If you believe that this will ensure faster implementation of new hospitals, everyone should be built in OPS context. I hear that the representative Bent Höie says that this should not always apply, but where it is practically possible and sensible. But where is it practically possible and reasonable? I would also like to point out to the Christian People's Party that this proposal strikes the other in its entirety. If you are going to get a better organisation in hospital development, you need to have the skills. If taken out in a OPS project, a transfer of competences is prevented when it is in progress. To the point of adjusting today's funding legislation: it has, quite correctly, the government itself proposed. A long-term national funding plan is also a proposal and one that should assess the need. For the first two points to consider the need for maintenance and a national plan: the Central Party has a programme decision that we want a national hospital plan, but only to raise it with funding and maintenance does I not seem to be particularly credible. In short, I thought this was going to be an open door – and the other one really didn't stick together.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e1997	This is an important matter – hospitals are important to the population. Now measurements show that between 80 pst. and 90 pst. of the people are satisfied with the hospitals. It is an encouragement to those who work there, and to us who grant the money, that we should continue to work. I'm glad that from almost every team we hear positive words about increasing the loan share, and I can dedicate the Right and the Advance Party representatives to the fact that it's not in their alternative budgets that we've picked up that proposal – it's by listening to the different hospitals around, and by seeing that the hospitals now have the order of the economy, so that the time has come. I believe that the governments who sit and assess applications and projects know that the political majority is in favour of this. This is a matter that, in my opinion, belongs to the state budget – where we will propose it – and you can then be invited to vote for it. This will increase flexibility, but it will still mean that the money will have to be granted first, i.e. that each investment must continue to be given priority by Stortinget for other purposes, such as: roads and tax cuts. And I can promise that this government will continue to give priority to hospitals. Those who think you can prioritize down hospitals, but still get money on the outside of the state budget, I think I'm making a big mistake that will damage Norwegian patients in the long term, and that will undermine Storting's ability to rule. Other debaters have been involved. In the posts of the representative, Höie, there are some things that I have the sense of. I do not exclude that we should have an overall plan that the Stortinget is debating, for which I have opened up in my talk about the hospitals – seeing the whole thing. I also do not exclude that we collect the cancers when we build new buildings, so that construction stage 1 of the next project is based on the last construction stage of the previous project – we have started plans for that. But I still think it is very important that the decisions are well anchored regionally and locally, and that we do not raise in the main hall questions about how clinic life should be designed, including on the investment side. Diverging operations and investment, which is constantly being called for, I think is an artificial way to think about. Yes, it needs to be distinguished to the extent that some money is to be spent on refurbishment, and something for treatment, but that decision is best taken almost every day in the hospital. Some of the proposals by the representatives Höie and Sanner give the impression that we can address investment needs by means of creative financing and bookkeeping: OPS, financial leasing or bank loans with interest compensation to state hospitals. In my opinion, it is political intimidation to cover that it is not granted enough, and here we have the debate from England and Sweden in mind. That debate is complex, we can't say it's black and white, but it gives so many warnings that I think you should be very careful about going that way. It's an animal way to give up control, with unclear results. Then there has been talk of annual investment needs, of slightly different variants, with reference to Denmark and with reference to the number of the Medical Association. Under the Bondevik II government, the level of funding for investments in hospitals was approximately Three billion. kr annually. Only two thirds of the building mass could be reacquired and maintained. Large loans under the line, and therefore outside the budget, were granted to compensate for the lack of appropriations. From 2008, the Stortinget increased investment opportunities to around 5 billion. kr annually, and an activity growth has since been fully financed. This year, investments of between 8 and 9 billion are planned. kr. I mean it's this thing that really boils down to: if it's a willingness to give the money, it's a willingness to put money over the central budgets, we can get up in hospitals. It's a aftermath, but it's going down, and that's the way we're on the right track. Hospitals now show that they are worth investing in, both because they are there and because they are run sensibly and well. Although we are now proposing to change the hospital framework conditions for loans, it does not change the fact that all such loans still need to be promoted for government and expansion. It is the Storting that decides whether to grant an investment loan. I think that's wise. It's still the Storting that has to choose if we're going to spend the big sums on tax cuts or hospitals, and I pick, as you know, the last one.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2016	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2019	I will be allowed to follow up on the 70 p.m. funding share: I experienced it so that when the Council of State had a press conference, this was – not least his own representatives among others. in More and Romesdal — a source of income for the construction of tomorrow. It has been argued that you cannot vote in favour of our proposal because it is part of a package. Now the representative Höie took this out of the package, and presented it as a separate proposal, which gets its own vote. If you hear at the end of the Council of State posts, where he emphasises – quite correctly – that all hospital investments come up in this room, of course, which will decide, and that it belongs in the state budget proposals, I also agree with the heart. But what is in the proposal is just an adjustment of the funding legislation, and it does not necessarily have anything to do with the state budget. So my question is simple: now that this has become a single proposal, will the Council of State recommend its representatives to vote for it?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2026	I don't think it's my role to recommend to the competent size group that's here, to evaluate it. How the Storting is positioned around different decisions, I have full confidence that they can assess. I want to say that it's up to, like, a little bit of a kick, so that you're going to adopt this, so that people know what the Greatness means, sounds to me a little lightly, to say it that way. It was a thorough assessment that led me to go in for, and got the government on, the proposal that was made last week, based on the needs, based on the fact that all the regions are now in balance, and based on the fact that we had conducted corporate meetings with all four, and went into this thoroughly. That is why I believe that that decision is in a budgetary context. We have sent a clear political signal about what we want to go in for. It's going to be expressed in Prop. 1, and so it gives that signal. But I think, as I said, that everyone in the board who evaluates projects knows it – also in the Moor and Romesdal. It is true that in Molde and Kristiansund want a hospital tomorrow, but they now have the prospect that it can come in 2017, and perhaps before that, too, if Health Mid-Norway finds another way to look at the use of the funds. The possibility is there.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2031	Governments belong to a party that played a significant role in the establishment of both State Building and Defence Building. This means that in the higher education sector, the management of these institutions concentrates on the core activities, which are education and research, while other professional organisations take care of the building mass. The same thing happens in the defense. What is so very different in the hospital sector, compared to the university and higher education sectors and the defence sector, that it is essential that hospitals themselves own and manage the buildings, and also have building-competent internal management – as opposed to the other two sectors?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2036	The representative knows that I have asked that one look at closer coordination, and how we can have a national perspective and learning in construction projects. But the difference is that those who run the hospital, almost every day, have to make a maintenance decision that is often close to patient treatment: accommodation of rooms, remodeling of meals, functionality. The idea of emptying the day-to-day hospital management for all the kind of competence, and having a national enterprise to travel around and make all the assessments in the quite many hospitals we have, I think, involves centralisation and red tape of daily running. When I visited a hospital, I learned that maintenance and investments are actually ongoing, in the light of needs. But I think, and there I don't think we should construct any distinction between the representative and me, that in order to gain total competence in planning good construction processes, orders, tenders and that kind of thing, we have more to pick up on drawing the four regions together, and I've also started working to get it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2041	There is now a planning and discussion of new hospitals in both Stavanger, Drammen, Oslo and several other areas of the country. State councils believe that building entirely new hospitals, on new plots, in these areas is possible within today’s funding model – and with the change to 70pst. – if one sees that the hospital budgets will grow around as they have grown under the red-green government?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2046	The representative mentioned some projects. I find it difficult to decide when I have not seen how much those projects are cost-based, but I have to estimate what they will cost. But we have established a long-term investment plan in the regions, based on one set of premises, namely 50/50. Now the regions assume that it can change – because there is a broad majority for it – to 70/30, and they can make new assessments. Then, of course, one in this room is going to make his decision as to whether or not to grant. I believe that there is room for and political will – I hope so – to set aside sufficient budgets. I think that the hospital budgets will have to increase in the years to come, both to treat more patients and to treat them better with new technologies and opportunities, and to do the upgrade on the investment side that is necessary. So I hope that the answer to that will be yes, but there are also more projects than the representative referred to, that lie and wait.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2053	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2058	I would like to comment on the proposal from the Right on health construction. Two key elements of the proposal are the possibility of a higher loan rate and the desire for OPS health building projects. As you know, the government will increase the lending framework so that health care companies can borrow up to 70 pst. of construction costs. With a healthy economy, we can now safely increase the loan share. For many health businesses this will be useful and the change is well received in the sector. At the same time, I want to mention the elementary, that as high a loan as possible has no intrinsic value in itself. A successful furniture founder from Sunnmøre once received the following question from the press: What does your company think is the most profitable, loan or lease? The sunmer replied with a smile about his mouth that he thought it was most profitable to pay in cash. Furthermore, the proposal repeats that public private cooperation in a political sense is a good solution. The question is, for which actor is that a good solution? There is already cooperation between public and private construction companies. Our hospitals are built by dividing up the large projects into tenders that private contractors win. Some are best at excavating, some at casting, some at construction, and the equipment is supplied by various specialized companies. The special feature of a political OPS model is that in addition, it shall bind itself to one operating monopolist several decades in advance. This increases bureaucracy, removes flexibility and self-righteousness and becomes costly. Knowledge of the operation of a hospital is in the organisation. An operating company with experience and knowledge of hotels, office buildings and aerodromes will operate worse and more expensive. In addition, health funds must be used to pay profits to the holding. Progress in medical technology is a pleasure to us as patients, but at the same time it is difficult to plan areas. Where today we need a lot of space because the equipment is large or needs shielding, we may get new and minimalistic equipment in a few years. New treatment can reduce the need for accommodation and beds in a subject, but increase the need for outpatient rooms. Hospital buildings are constantly changing as these changes take place. Experience suggests that a monopolist for the operation of construction becomes expensive when changes that could not be foreseen in the first tender are to be paid. Therefore, we should avoid solutions that expose and exaggerate reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2073	On 1 January 2011, the responsibility for 160 000 patients was transferred to Aarhus. This occurred as a result of the closure of Aker as a full hospital. This meant that Aarhus, originally planned for a patient base of 350,000, was able to expand this to 460,000 patients. The signals that have come through media redundancies and enquiries from employees — over the years — and relatives indicate that the closure of Aker hospitals was a little thoughtful, and that the hospital needs of the future in Oslo’s eastern city areas suggest that departments of Aker hospitals with satisfactory technical standards are reopened. The party warned against the closure of Aker Hospital. The Progress Party has on several occasions made proposals to continue full operation at the hospital. Various actors warned the government about the consequences of such a move, but the government ignored all warnings – and continues to ignore them. Siri Hatlen resigned as Managing Director of Oslo University Hospital on June 6, 2011. Hatlen had the primary responsibility for the decision in February 2010 to shut down Aker Hospital – outside the government, of course – and move patients to Ahus. After his departure, Hatlen has maintained that the closure of Aker Hospital was an unwise decision, cf. Newspaper 27 February 2012. In the same interview, Hatlen says that the value of health businesses should be assessed. The situation at Aarhus today is still that corridors are used for patient treatment. They are long waiting times, and patients may be sent to other hospitals due to lack of capacity. The Progress Party promoted in the Stortinget in 2010 a proposal for a representative in which we asked the government to stop the closure of Aker Hospital. The proposal was supported only by the Christian People's Party. The other batches chose to deal with information and insurance provided by the Minister of Health and the representatives of the Government Parties, information which has subsequently proved to be very flawed and possibly erroneous. In the big debate in this case, the main figure of the Workers' Party stated the following: ‘We want to assure everyone in question that no one will receive health care worse than they are currently receiving, regardless of reorganization or relocation. Safe and good health services are the most important focus for us red-green, and it is totally inappropriate to compromise on quality when it comes to people’s health.’ Furthermore, Anne-Grete Ström-Erichsen, Minister for Health at the time, said the following: «When said, I share the opinion of the proposers that the changes cannot be implemented until we are sure that the population transferred from Aker is guaranteed an equally good or better offer at Ahus. The proposers are concerned about the capacity of Ahus and show that there have been problems with waiting times and corridor Asians. I would like to point out that Aarhus is not yet complete. Capacity will be significantly expanded from 2011 when the last bed effusion and a new patient hotel have been completed.’ In any case, there is little agreement between the promises made by the former Minister of Health and the current situation for patients affected by the conversion. What frustrates the Progress Party the most is where – what word to use – marginalised many inhabitants of the Groruddalen feel and how the government simply ignores the people of the Groruddalen. These are people who are very frustrated. There are a lot of people who are involved in Aker Hospital. The government continues to ignore these people. I think it's a shame the government doesn't take it seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2102	The representative, Mr Höie, asked in his speech for a separate vote on one of the four sub-proposals in what is now referred to as proposal No. 1 among minority proposals in the vote. This sub-proposal, which involves an adjustment to current financial legislation, so that 70 pst. the cost of major initial investments can be financed by loans, was not known to us until 9.00 p.m. 14.30 today and submitted until then as part of a major proposal that we disagree with. I don't have time to justify our disagreement in its entirety here, but just say briefly that it's about such things as that it becomes expensive and provides increased unnecessary administration. Anyway, I can't recommend the Labour Party Group to vote in favour of this sub-proposal. The Minister for Health has made public the views of the Workers' Party on the matter. We're for an extension to 70 pst. A key prerequisite is that healthcare businesses are now in a position to invest. The representative Per Arne Olsen was concerned to look forward and not backward – I understand – and used the word ‘remembering displacement’. The fact is that today’s government has got the economy of hospitals in order – that’s a prerequisite for us to have this discussion at all today – and that hospitals can provide good, predictable services to the entire nation’s population. All regional health enterprises now have long-term economic plans with concrete investment plans. In the period 2002–2005, hospitals accumulated a total corrected deficit of more than 6 billion. kr. I would like to hear from the representative Per Arne Olsen where it is we recall errors. This clean-up has provided the basis for major investments, but changing the funding of hospitals is a budgetary issue. We do not deal with detached proposals in Stortinget over the table. We don't deal with the state budget in puzzle pieces all year round. What I would like to do, on the other hand, is to invite the Right to vote in favour of the government's draft government budget for 2014. It must be the logical consequence if it is important for the party that we stand together in this matter – whether the party will deal with budgetary matters in an ordinary way – and that we agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2113	The right-hand plan is that there is a new government to maintain the budget point from the outgoing government on debt financing of 70 p.m. Several have been on the situation in health enterprises in 2005. The government party fraction has been in the position, the Minister of Health has been in his post – and now the last representative of Haugli. Then there is reason to tell the story about the situation from 2001 to 2005, because it seems to me that the Workers' Party has removed its own party's responsibility from 1999 and the years ahead. The State decided to assume responsibility for health businesses from 1 January 2002. A prerequisite for that acquisition was inter alia: that there were a number of questions that were not clarified. The reason was that one needed a very short period of time from acquisition from county council to state in order to avoid a game of responsibility during that transition period. Therefore, the Storting accepted that one took over the hospitals without establishing an opening balance sheet, that one took over the hospitals without establishing depreciation rules, and that one took over the hospitals without establishing an objective funding system between the different regions. This meant that hospitals had to have the possibility of not balancing in those years, precisely because it took time to establish an opening balance sheet — naturally — it took time to establish depreciation rules, and not least it took a long time to establish an objective funding system between regions. It was done in two rounds, first through the Hagen Committee and St.meld. 5 for 2003–2004, for which the Bondevik II Government provided broad support in the Storting, among others. from the Workers' Party, and saw the next round through the change made by the Stoltenberg II Government. There was also a demand from the Labour Party in the budget negotiations in 2004, when one began to approach a time when most regions could balance, that the Bondevik II Government refrain from requiring health businesses to balance. The Labour Party called for a deficit in the budget negotiations for hospitals, but it comes today and criticises the government that had stricter requirements for balance than they themselves had in the budget negotiations, saying it is the ones responsible for the deficit. No, the responsibility for the financial situation of health businesses in 2005 is one that all the parties who voted in favour of the reform in 1999 have to share. It was a prerequisite for the implementation of the reform. There would have been dramatic consequences for patients in this country if hospitals were to balance over the four-year period.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2126	Parts of that story are right, and it's worth remembering that everyone has a responsibility, and that the situation with the lack of opening balance sheets was real. I think that was a useful reminder. Being forced to budget with deficits is also about the willingness of the current government to finance the efforts that are. When we say that hospitals were in billions of losses in 2005, it's a description of reality. It is a lesson that it took several years before one gradually, with hard work, through work out in hospital everyday life and through additions in budgets – 12 billion. kr – has managed to sort out the hospital economy. It's a reality that at least a disfellowshipped government can't argue away from.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2133	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 10 and 11.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2147	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2156	Every year there are nearly two million calls to the medical officers in Norway. The medical profession is facing people with disease and injuries. Many are in danger of life, shock, crisis, and grief. As in other health services, complexity has increased and higher requirements are imposed on the handling of the medical guard. Medical care is an important part of the municipal health and care services and of the emergency medical chain. We need to have equivalent medical care throughout the country, and we need to ensure the service quality, competence and availability. The Progress Party has made a proposal to draw up a national medical action plan to ensure the quality, competence and accessibility of users. The proposers believe that it should be based on the measures and recommendations set out in the 2009 report of the National Centre of Competence in Medical Medicine. The report states that there are very wide variations in the premises, equipment, operation and manning of Norwegian medical guards. This has also emerged in a number of media projections last autumn and in winter. Determiners are an important part of the medical care system and have an obligation to participate in the scheme. The government has recently revised its terms of reference. It is important to evaluate whether the changes made by the government in the regulation have the desired effects, since, in particular, increased availability of the caretaker helps relieve the medical caretaker, and whether several doctors participate in the medical caretaker in accordance with the new prescription. A separate medical prescription has been required for a long time, if further development of a medical watch may take place through revision of the emergency medical prescription. This is a work currently in progress, and the majority are concerned that national quality requirements for medical care must be an important part of it. The medical examiner’s qualification has been notified by the government in the context of the revision of the regulation. This is in line with the Health Inspectorate’s recommendation of 2006, which believes that standards and procedures for medical care should be set up to a greater extent. In 2006, the government received recommendations from the Health Authority. Two million people go to the medical wards every year. There have been 12 million enquiries since the government received these recommendations. Maybe it's about time to do something. In the light of the steps taken by the government — after all — the majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, do not support the proposal for a national action plan for medical guards and propose that the document be annexed to the Protocol. The minority, consisting of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party, supports the proposal and points out that a plan should set requirements for staffing. Experience shows that every five doctors on duty are on duty, and that experienced doctors put away their guards for younger, inexperienced doctors. According to the Norwegian Legesvartforum, 10-30 pst is released. by the medical examiners. A national medical action plan should also include requirements for modern communication systems, so that medical services have access to essential information on patients. Medical care is an important part of the medical and emergency chain. A national action plan should therefore focus on how to interact with the other municipal health and care services and with specialist health services. In many places, municipalities have joined forces in medical practice. Intermunicipal medical guards have been successful in a number of places. Nevertheless, a risk assessment has to be carried out in the organisation of large medical care districts, as the effectiveness has to be assessed against availability. I'll bring this up with the minority proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2177	The representative Line Henriette Hemdal has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2180	The working party shares many of the rapporteur's opinions. Medical services are important. It is about getting help in an acute health situation and about having security that such help is available. Medical services must have competence and tools to solve their tasks. However, the majority do not support the proposal for a national medical action plan. There is no new plan for this part of healthcare needs. The caretaker is and should be a municipal responsibility. The local challenges are different and local authorities must have the freedom to organise services in accordance with local needs. State governance of the municipal sector should be limited to what is necessary, and solutions should be designed in such a way that the need to ensure a sound and fully-fledged provision of health and care in municipalities does not slip into a central governance that closes innovation, adaptation and good local solutions. A solid municipal economy is an important prerequisite for good municipal medical care services. The government has significantly strengthened the municipal economy. Since 2005, free revenues have increased by nearly 5 billion. kr annually. Since the National Centre of Competence in Medical Medicine presented the report to which the rapporteur referred, much has been done in the municipal health and care services. The government has worked with the aim of further developing the framework for municipal health and care provision in general and has taken action in the area of municipal general medical services in particular. The decision-makers must be the backbone of the medical services. On 1 January 2011, we received a new municipal health and care service law that obliges municipalities to provide necessary and sound health and care services to all residents of the municipality. The development and strengthening of the fixed medical system is a direct and indirect strengthening of the medical care system, as many regular doctors are also doctors. In addition, many of those today seeking medical attention could get better help from their doctor. Under the new statutory regulation, there is an obligation for medical practitioners to take part in medical services. I agree with the rapporteur that it is important to evaluate whether the changes in the regulation have the desired effect. The opposition is concerned that the guards do not have access to information on the patient’s permanent staff. To this end, it is said that already in 2003 provision was made for access to information on the patient’s tenure. Access was restricted to, among others: toy guard. So the law can easily figure out who the individual patient is. Another issue that concerns the case is the responsibility of the addressees of the infringement. An evaluation carried out by Nordlandsforschung in 2012 showed wide variations in the content and quality of the offenders. It also showed that there is confusion about the division of tasks and responsibilities between municipalities and hospitals, and that today's 22nd reception works very differently. Several of the receptions do not receive children. All abusers must meet with respect and understanding and be offered high-quality help. The anchoring of the abuse recipients in the specialist health service shall ensure that all offenders are given access to competence at the level they need. Children’s representative Anne Lindboe has believed that children do not have a good enough offer for violence and suspicion of assault. That's a situation we can't live with. She supports the reorganisation and calls it reasonable and necessary. In hospitals, there are children’s doctors with a wide range of competences. Here it will now be possible to develop a broader and more professional competence than the one we are currently looking at at infringing receptions, which only involve patients over 14 years of age. Interpreting recipients are well suited for interaction between municipalities and specialist health services. Municipal reception facilities at the medical services that are currently functioning well can and should be continued through agreements between municipalities and hospitals. The attacker in Oslo is an example of a large reception that has good results and that, in the view of the majority, should be able to continue as a cooperation project between the specialist health service and the municipality. It is soon time to do something, says case-rapporteur Line Henriette Hemdal, and refers to 12 million medical emergencies, as if they were not handled properly. But all respect, people who seek medical attention in Norway, get good help, and the government has done a lot and will do more.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2203	All Norwegian municipalities are required to have a medical care service. Medical care shall provide a general medical treatment offer for emergency conditions outside the normal opening hours of the medical clinics. Thus, medical care is a very important offer in the emergency medical chain and an important part of primary health services. In recent years, there has been a growing focus on providing healthcare of good quality and with a high degree of patient safety. The medical service is highly vulnerable, from such a perspective, because the work here is rapid, with unknown patients and is performed by doctors with very varied experience and often without any particular support device around it. Lack of communication and consultation techniques may also lead to critical misassessments. The media has repeatedly had cases that produce medical services as risky and of varying quality, with many defects and complaints as a result. The proposal for a representative we are discussing today also refers to more news headlines on TV 2, which highlight the fact that Knut, Jakob and Øyvind lost their lives as a result of serious medical errors. Many will go so far as to say that medical care has an increasing reputational problem in the population. TV 2 believes it is possible to establish that Norwegian medical officers are a priority of the government. The Haga Committee pointed out in 1998 that there was a strong need to strengthen the general medical component of emergency medical work, and they launched a number of proposals. The size of these proposals was closely linked to many of the proposals when the emergency response was discussed in Stortinget in the autumn of 2000 and in the spring of 2001. One of the measures taken by the majority of the population was the establishment of a national centre of expertise for prehospital emergency medicine to strengthen competence and coordinate resources in emergency medicine. Thus, the clear signal was given to put in place the National Centre of Competence for Medical Medicine. Although some action has been taken in the field of medical care, this has not led to major improvements. The state health authorities have been very dissatisfied with the quality of the service in a number of areas and have pointed out the lack of municipal governance of the offer. They have also pointed out the need for organisational and administrative upgrading of medical care in many places. The medical association has worked a long time to get a better medical care service. The Health Directorate then asked the National Medical Competence Centre to prepare a proposal for an action plan for the development of medical care in Norway. The report was completed in 2009 and was entitled ‘... is near help!’ This report reveals several unsustainable conditions in Norwegian medical guards. The Competence Centre provides the Government with clear advice on setting up new national medical care requirements. When the Stortinge in 2010 dealt with the Interaction Reform, it was also a unanimous increase that pointed to the need to strengthen medical care. Later, Stortinget was presented with the proposal for a new law on municipal health and care services and a national health plan. There were many who expected the government to come up with clear measures and legal requirements when it came to medical care, but the disappointment was great. The government had little followed up the recommendations of the Centre of Competence, but noted that they assessed the proposed measures. When the Progress Party then promoted its proposal for a representative in the wake of the tragic TV 2 headlines, we also received the Council of State's assessment of this proposal. We see that some of the measures proposed by the National Centre of Competence in Medical Medicine should be followed up in regulations. However, with regard to the main approach to ensuring patients throughout the country safe and sound medical care through a national action plan, the government is reprehensible. Then it is referred again to municipal autonomy. Place the system in front of the individual individual. The government likes to point to its strengthening of the municipal sector, and then they wash their hands and consider the problem to be out of the world. At the same time, the election campaign machine sits at Youngstorget and is looking for bourgeoisly run municipalities that they can criticize in the elections. Blackmail is in progress. I mentioned earlier that the Health Inspectorate pointed out the need for extensive organisational and administrative changes in many Norwegian medical practitioners. But who cares what the Health Authority thinks? In the report we received from the Health Inspectorate last week, we see that Agenda Kaupang has produced a report on, among other things. discontinuance management in municipal health and care services. It appears that during one third of the supervisory reports of non-compliance, policy is addressed in Norwegian municipalities. So in addition to the black player game, I imagine the three apecats: nothing – nothing heard – nothing said. If we are to get Norwegian medical care services up to a qualitatively sound level within a reasonable period of time, we need an overall approach. We can't have individual measures, piecewise and divided. I therefore recommend the proposal to put in place a medical care plan to ensure the quality, competence and accessibility of users. Since I believe in miracles, and since this is probably my last post from the pulpit of the Great Britain, I hope the government parties see the sense of it and support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2233	I would like to refer to the posts of the case rapporteur and representative Jon Jäger Gåsvatn, who carried out what the Right believes in this matter. I also understand that this has been an area in which the committee that has actually engaged itself and thought that there has been a need to raise this challenge nationally. We did so for the first time in the launch of the Communication on the Interaction Reform after the national health care centre had been consulted in the committee and very clearly presented what was then a quite new report on the situation in Norwegian medical services. There were then great expectations that this would be mentioned in the new law on municipal health and care services. That was where the regulations came from. Then the instructions came to the hearing, and then this was not included. There is now a new emergency regulation under preparation, and once again there is a great hope that the new emergency regulation will provide clearer national leadership on the quality and content requirements of the municipal medical service. The opposition believes that we need an action plan in this area. It is not very special that the State, the Stortinget and the government, together with the municipalities, draw up action plans in areas where the municipalities have a responsibility. In fact, for the state, some responsibility for the framework conditions and the ability to operate a sound community medical care centre — e.g. something as basic as access to competent doctors. The contribution that the government has made here is to relieve the most experienced prescribers of medicine. This further increases the pressure on the other doctors in the fixed medical system, which is now under increased watch pressure. So it's the government's contribution to increasing the medical staff's competence – at a time when you'd been given clear warnings about this. Right will support the proposal for a national action plan in this area. It is also a good opportunity to thank the representative Jon Jäger Gåswatten for good cooperation in the Committee for four years and for strong commitment, not least in this area, and for the care sector in particular.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2242	There will always be errors on a medical watch. There's a lot of good going on around medics. There are many corpses that risk life and health to drag out and scare patients. I never thought we should forget that when we discuss what TV 2 comes up with, what's blackmail, and who's apecats. Doctors are very important, and it's the backbone of the medical services out in the municipalities. As has been said, in a 2009 report, the National Centre for Medical Medicine has concluded that there are far too many variations in local, equipment, operation and staffing, that very many individuals do not participate in medical care, although they are obliged to do so by agreement, that the municipalities also have a responsibility here, and that this part of the emergency service has not received the same attention as for example. ambulance service, police, fire and rescue. If you look at the individual suggestions that are presented here, I don't mind any of them. I think we do not need an action plan, but we are very concerned that when we review the regulation, we should be clear that it must lead to better medical care arrangements around the country. If an ambulance runs, there are strict rules, both when it comes to competence and equipment, and that they're two in the car. If you are a doctor, you are still running around with your wallet alone - all possible places and into all possible homes. Medical vigilance is – whether one is running out to patients or whether it is the way it is now, that a greater number of patients gather at medical clinics or clinics – a very demanding service. It is said that one assesses about two million patients every year. It's high-speed, there's a lot of fuzzy issues, and one may not have gotten the necessary build-up of the service quality. But it's possible to do something about it. When we dealt with the Reform of Cooperation, there was a comment that medical care should be strengthened, either in the form of a separate regulation or as an extension of the Emergency Medical Regulation. I am very pleased that action has been taken and that competence requirements have been met for those who are running medically alone, and for the local economy to be strengthened. There's a common national medical watch number and, as I said, this work isn't yet. There's an evaluation going on. In the proposal of the Progress Party, one of the points is that the country should be organised in six to eight medical wards. I'm too big a medical care unit, because the most important thing is that a stable medical coverage that runs medics in the districts where they work. But my warning against too large medical wards is that it doesn't help if it doesn't mean that there's doctors running doctors there. What you've seen is that it's more lucrative to give away their shifts in large medical wards, and then one is the same distance. In the municipality of Bergen, where there are many fixatives, they also have a very big problem that the regulars don't take their medical guards themselves. Then an equidistant distance, so this medicine district is not a solution in itself. It must be followed up with other instruments. Now there are several women in the medical study; it has been for many years. A medical officer runs an unusually normal working time, and who believes that in the future he will accept this when he has family and children. My proposal is that one should expand the municipal time that is. What is six or eight hours a week today has to be up and down during normal working hours. It's going to be a big rise. There was no one from the opposition who demanded, when the law was processed, but that's what needs to be done, and in the long run, we might get it that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2259	Medical care is a central and important service for the population of Norway and is a municipal responsibility. We all become acquainted with it in different parts of the country, and it is both right and important to ensure that the population has access to good immediate assistance services near where they live. Then it is worth remembering that this government has been committed to enabling the municipalities to provide these services also through the local economy initiative. Now it's not an easy task to do medical work in Norway. We have a long-distance country, local needs vary. Therefore, it is fundamental that municipalities should have the freedom to organise the service in line with local needs. At the same time, they must ensure good and equivalent services for all citizens. We must balance the need for government governance with the need for local freedom of action. Government governance of the local government sector shall be limited to what is necessary. Municipalities shall be provided with space for action within nationally defined frameworks. We therefore need to find a balance in governance that stimulates innovation and innovation and to establish appropriate local solutions. The government has been clear as to the direction in which we want the municipal health and care services to develop. The direction of the interaction reform is that more people receive treatment and follow-up more closely where they live. We have made clear the responsibilities of the municipalities for the general medical services and medical services through changes in the law and regulations. Work on the introduction of the national core file is an important follow-up point in the ICT message that the Stortinget dealt with in ours. Core file could make a difference in emergency medical watch situations. We have planned a limited pilot in Trondheim in the autumn of 2013 which includes medical care, emergency reception and fast doctors. In order to improve the availability of the medical watch, a single national medical watch number shall be introduced. Tests show good results. The national roll-out is scheduled for spring 20l4. As you know, work is under way on revising the emergency medical code. An important assessment is how we can best follow up our decision to impose minimum competence requirements on doctors who are to take part in medical services. Work is planned for consultation during the summer. I have noticed that the opposition is concerned that many tour operators are participating in the medical service. I have faith in many of our skilled and competent tour operators. They do important work in municipalities and hospitals, and of course they have to take part in medical care as part of training for future work in the municipal health and care service. The point is that they must have the support and follow-up of experienced colleagues. The change in basic training for doctors gives a clear indication of the important role played by the tour operators. Turnus is no longer a necessary requirement for being authorized as a doctor, but is rather a first step towards becoming a specialist. But let me stress: Turning doctors and other doctors with little experience in medical care must have other and more experienced doctors to rely on to ensure patient safety and to provide the doctor with the necessary security in the service. It is the responsibility of the municipality to provide adequate guidance during training to the tour applicants. Representatives propose to present a detailed national medical action plan in line with the proposal of the National Centre of Competence in Medical Medicine. I would like to say, as the representative Toppe, that there are many good proposals here. But it is also our position that these are proposals that are being followed up on an ongoing basis and that there is no need for an action plan. It will not solve the challenges of medical care. This is partly a question of economy, competence, capacity and equipment, and all areas deserve attention. I will continue the important work of further developing the municipal general care service and of facilitating a sustainable and competent community medical care service that ensures the proximity of the population to immediate assistance services. And so here, as the representative Toppe was about, the recruitment of the general school profession is an important part of this. There is good recruitment for the medical profession in Norway, more doctors are trained in relation to population growth, so the total number of people per doctor is going in the right direction. But the recruitment of general medicine is a challenge. We note that on the medical watch side, and that only underlines the need to have good recruitment arrangements for general medicine, and that it is being facilitated for an increasing number of women to be in this group.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2276	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2279	We have had changes to the regulations that say doctors over a certain age can be exempted from medical care. That change results in the disappearance from medical care of those with long experience and broad competence. In addition to that, we see that the average age of the rectifiers is increasing. Does the Council of State see that this can lead to an additional reduction in the quality of medical care? How will he meet that challenge and secure the support for the turnaround candidates he raised in his contribution?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2287	The short answer to that is yes, I see that problem. We debated it in this room at the end of last year and into this year, about what that age limit had to say. I then said that we would carry out an evaluation, not after a long time, but after a short time. We have carried out that evaluation, and it gives me reason to ask questions at the age limit. So I'll evaluate this, and I want to be able to announce the conclusion of that assessment pretty soon.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2292	Yes, we have a lot of skilled tour operators, and the Council of State is very concerned that they will receive the support and follow-up of experienced doctors. The manager of the Norwegian Medical Training Forum, Per Magne Mikaelsen, writes in the newspaper today that: ‘85 percent of us are working alone without professional or practical support as they are in hospitals, for example. This is the situation in Norway’s more than 200 medical wards four years after the alarming report.’ 85 pst. by those referred to by the Leader of the Norwegian Medical Training Forum, is alone without support. Yes, it is important that the tour candidates have some experienced and supportive doctors in mind, but what about this figure – 85 pst. – as director of the Norwegian Medical Service Forum re-writes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2304	I think I have to answer something like I did in my post, that it is important that the tour operators and those with less experience have good support of them with more experience, and that they have them as close as possible to the work they do. But as also the representative Toppe was in the house, a medical officer is about driving out of the office, visiting people at home, and it's not like we have a standard that there are two doctors on all those trips. But here we have pointed out the need to strengthen a service in very many areas, and where we need to balance it against – as I said – economics, competence and recruitment. Therefore, I believe that these are the assessments they make locally in the individual municipalities – because the state may be very different from the municipality to the municipality – which is crucial. Then it's also about the municipal economy we give the municipalities – and then their opportunity to implement this, and the way we equip the regulation to help them.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2309	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that the matter be referred to the Court of Justice. 13 and 14 are dealt with as a whole – and consider it adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2338	I think this should go pretty fast. There is a unanimous committee that is behind both cases, and that gives the Civil Ombudsman a new task. We have been very pleased with the tasks he has done so far. Now he gets both more money – 6.2 million. kr on an annual basis – and a new task, because we have now finally ratified the UN Convention of 10 December 1984 on Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment. This case is therefore a follow-up to the ratification in order to ensure that a national preventive mechanism will be put in place, as will the Civilombudsman. Then there's been a lot of inconvenience about this, of course, for some human rights organizations would also be involved in doing the job. But what the committee has done, in cooperation with the municipal committee, is, to a large extent, attached to this responsibility now given to the civilombudsman, that we should ensure that we continue to evaluate the work done by the civilombudsman in connection with this matter. However, the Civilo Ombudsman is now being given the opportunity to move out to a closed-end inspection: in asylum receptions, in prisons, in military arrests, child protection institutions and psychiatric institutions. The size is expected when the Civilo Ombudsman reports on this in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2347	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 13 and 14.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2361	A short time ago dealt with Stortinget Meld. Art. No. 15 for 2012–2013 on the prevention and combating of violence in close relations. It's an important thing. It's about violence committed by those who were supposed to be closest to us. It's about violence committed within the home's four walls, where we were really going to experience the greatest security. Especially bad is it when violence and abuse hit the most vulnerable, namely the children. The government has therefore announced its own strategy on violence and sexual abuse against children and young people. The issue we are dealing with today is one such measure to protect children from sexual abuse. It concerns changes to the Foreign Affairs Act. In this case, it is proposed to provide a basis for refusing to apply for a residence permit for special coal children in family immigration cases where the reference person, i.e. the spouse of the child's parent, in the last 10 years, has been convicted of sexual crimes against a child under 18 years of age. A Joint Committee supports the introduction of such a quarantine. It is also proposed that a residence permit may be refused if there is reason to fear that the special coal child will be subjected to sexual assault. A likelihood balance is then no longer required in such cases and a judgment is not required. An overall committee also agrees with this proposal. In cases where the reference person is intended or suspected of such a situation, it is proposed that the matter be put to rest until it is established whether this is a situation relevant to the application. A Joint Committee also supports this. This will probably not apply to very many children, but there are nevertheless important measures to protect the children concerned from sexual abuse in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2374	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2388	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2397	This almost turned out to be the wrong posts, because the order of the cases had changed in relation to what we had on the paper from before – but I got involved in it at the last moment. So now we're dealing with changes to the Foreign Affairs Act in terms of security matters. This case concerns new rules on how management and courts are to deal with foreign matters affecting fundamental national interests or foreign policy considerations. The proposals promoted are mainly of a procedural nature. However, the Committee found that it would like to invite a hearing on the matter, since this is precisely about fundamental national interests on the one hand, and the legal certainty of individuals on the other. But no one came to the hearing. The most relevant hearing bodies are that we have expressed our opinion on the government consultation document. The opinions have been dealt with in detail in the proposition. During the Committee's proceedings, we received a letter from the Council of State setting out the need for some technical corrections to be made to the bill. It has been followed up by a unanimous proposal for adjustments in Sections 108 and 128 and a proposal for a new Section 128a. In the latter case, the right to provide for the exchange of information between public bodies on matters of fundamental national or foreign policy interest is separated by a separate provision. The Committee unanimously endorses the proposals made by the Government in this matter. This means that, hereafter, matters relating to the intervention in a foreigner’s residence permit, i.e.: expulsion, revocation or refusal of renewal, is dealt with by the Ministry of Justice and Defence as a first instance and could subsequently be brought before the courts, free of charge to the foreigner. This will speed up the process in such cases, which the Committee sees as an advantage. An additional safety-declared lawyer system is also in place, enabling more classified information to be provided. It will be an advantage for both parties. Proposals are also made which will lead to a faster treatment in security matters where the UDI remains the first instance, i.e. in cases where the non-resident has not previously resided. The proposal for a decision on the matter is therefore promoted by a unanimous committee. The only place in which the Committee is not in agreement is in the comments on the right to refugee status and protection against expulsion, including in matters of fundamental national interest or foreign policy considerations. The majority of the Committee, with the exception of the Party of Advances, is acting in this way under the Convention on Refugees as regards the right to protection and under both the European Convention on Human Rights and the Convention on Refugees as regards protection against expulsion. The Party of Progress does not share the views of the majority on the interpretation of the Refugee Convention. However, there is no impact on the situation in the case. As I said, it is unanimous. The different understanding of international commitments gives us plenty of opportunity to come back to the next case.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2416	I note that the entire Committee supports the proposal for new rules for the handling of security matters under the Foreign Affairs Act. I would also like to thank the Committee for its excellent cooperation, which ensures that we now have a proper legal text. It is important that the authorities are able to take decisions that safeguard fundamental national interests and foreign policy considerations. To this end, the procedural rules must take account of both legal certainty and the necessary confidentiality. I believe that the proposed regulatory changes represent a good balance between these considerations. At the same time, an effective procedure is provided for. I would like to stress that these are few, but important and demanding issues. The need for confidentiality differs. The State will endeavour to ensure that decisions are based, as far as possible, on information which must not be concealed from that decision. I noticed in the position that the minority has disagreed with a majority opinion. The majority say that a non-resident cannot be denied status as a refugee for fundamental national or foreign policy reasons. On the other hand, the representatives of the Progress Party seem to believe that the Refugee Convention opens up to this. I would like to stress, as the previous speaker – the rapporteur – also pointed out, that this issue does not affect the proposed legislative changes. However, I consider it necessary to note that the opinion of the majority of the committee is correct. The right to refuse recognition as a refugee is governed by Section 31 of the Foreign Affairs Act and Article 1F of the Refugee Convention. Neither fundamental national interests nor foreign policy considerations form the basis for refusing recognition. The provisions of the Refugee Convention which the minority emphasises in support of its view do not allow for this either. They just apply to other questions. Article 9 applies to measures aimed at individuals in war situations or similar situations. Article 2 establishes that refugees are obliged to comply with the laws of the country of destination. Article 33 provides for the expulsion of a refugee for reasons of national security but not for the purpose of refusing recognition as a refugee. I would like to stress that Norwegian law also opens up the expulsion of refugees for such reasons. However, a return may never take place as long as there is a real risk of serious infringement.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2431	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2445	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to four lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2454	In this case, the majority shall consider a proposal from the Progress Party for major changes to the Foreign Affairs Act. The starting point is that Norwegian immigration policy is determined by the Norwegian authorities, but a minimum requirement is that we fulfil our international obligations under general international law and the international agreements we are bound by. Today’s Foreign Affairs Act was adopted by the Stortinget in April 2008 and entered into force on 1 January 2010, following extensive work of broad political consensus. The Foreign Affairs Act and its associated regulations are in themselves a complex regulatory framework for the regulation and control of immigration and residence of foreigners in the Kingdom. The proposals of the Progress Party are comprehensive and were allocated to the Committee just three weeks ago, on Monday 27 May. However, the Committee has chosen to deal with the matter before the Grand Duchy separates. Despite the wide range of legislative proposals, it is relatively easy to decide. It is largely a reprisal of Storting’s treatment of new foreign law in 2008. That is also the reason why the Committee chose not to hold a hearing in the case. Attached to it are letters from the Minister for Justice and Security, reviewing the main proposals for changes. Just as the former Minister of Labour and Inclusion assessed it in 2008, the current Foreign Minister concludes that a number of proposals violate Norway’s basic international foreign commitments. For all the other parties, this is enough reason in itself to argue that the proposals are not acceptable. As in 2008, the proposals will only have the own votes of the Progress Party. In the context of a 5-minute post, it is not possible to comment on all the proposals, but their direction is already estimated in the context of the purpose paragraph. The Progress Party proposes here to introduce a restrictive interpretation of general international law and international conventions. There are already international driving rules for this. We cannot make our own practice contrary to that. In addition, the use of terms such as the fact that the law applies only to those who are actually persecuted expresses strong scepticism that many of those who are given refugee status today are not actually persecuted. There's an opinion The Progress Party is all about. Several of the proposals run counter to international commitments. The proposers believe that Norway should interpret the Schengen Agreement in its own way by lowering the requirement of border control. We don't have the power to do that. It will be more difficult to stay in Norway for a number of groups, even for persons entitled to protection. The Progress Party will send them back to the region they came from, and let other countries take care of them. Immigrants shall no longer be allowed permanent residence. Nor should they be entitled to take their families to Norway. There is no breach of international conventions, but nevertheless not very smart, for the purpose of recruiting future workers. However, what is a violation of international conventions are the proposals to lower the threshold in order to deprive people with a need for protection of their refugee status, cf. the previous case, proposals to restrict the possibility of staying due to strong human considerations, to repeal the requirement of the Convention on the Rights of the Child as a fundamental consideration in matters relating to children, and to introduce a new immigration regulatory recital, called integration considerations, but the latter is, in substance, a discrimination against people. Some, based on ethnic dividing lines, must meet more stringent requirements than others with regard to the possibility of permanent residence and with regard to the possibility of family reunification with both spouses and children. Proposals are also made for a reduced threshold for the use of coercive substances, including: closed receipts for those who are unable to document their ID on arrival. The sum of all the proposals being promoted violates the Racial Discrimination Convention, the European Convention on Human Rights, the United Nations Convention on Social and Political Rights and the Children's Convention. Less serious, but just as no other party wants to join, the stricter rules for both permanent and temporary stays will lead to considerable administrative extra work, contrary to what the proposers themselves say they want. As I said, the proposals are not supported by any other parties. I assume that the proposers themselves address the proposals they wish to make in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2482	When this proposal was drawn up, we asked the Ministry of Justice for a legislative review of the proposals. This was rejected. We asked again for a legal review, based on the letter of reply from the department. We got a new rejection. The reason we did that was to avoid getting into a situation where some claims were made that this proposal violates international conventions. Now the Council of State does not say that it is in breach of international conventions, as the President of the case said, but the Council of State says that they can be broken. And that's a difference for me. Finland has made some changes to its legislation in order to reduce immigration, and they have streamlined the deployment of illegal immigrants. Denmark has done the same. In England, new laws are currently being discussed to limit immigration, and in Switzerland, the same thing is being done. As far as I know, they do not break any international conventions. In their letters, the Council of State writes that we can break some conventions, and that there is a great difference between the proposal we have made and what they have presented in Denmark. Just before I went to the hall, I went through the rules on immigration to Denmark, and I actually couldn't see the huge differences. In the Progress Party, we are reasonably sure that we are staying within the conventions that are, and if it turns out that when we introduce this, we would be able to break with someone, of course, to come forward with proposals that make us stay within. But there is clearly a difference between the interpretation of international laws. Norway has greater immigration than both Denmark and Finland combined. Then it's allowed to ask why it's like this. There must be something about the law that makes coming to Norway more attractive than coming to these countries. If we want to reduce immigration, we can do that. But if you're satisfied with the immigration flow we have to Norway, of course you leave it. But the reason why the Progress Party is promoting the proposal – and the intentions of this proposal – is that we want sustainable immigration and immigration that will not go beyond the well-being we have in Norway today. I've said it before, and I'll say it again: everything is possible – it just depends on how you do it, and if you want to do it. Some time ago, they were signed in Finland and looked at immigration and integration policies there. We visited, for example: Helsingsfors administrative court. One of the proposals we have made here is to lay down UNE and get an administrative court in Norway. We had a thorough review of the Administrative Court and how the Administrative Court worked in Finland. The Helsinki Administrative Court deals with approx. 8 000 cases per year, and approximately 20 pst. – or about 2000 of them – they said, referred to asylum or immigration issues. It was said that almost 100 pst. complaints against decisions in asylum cases, but that the administrative court maintains decisions in any case in 70 p.m. of these matters. In cases where cases are sent back to Migri, which is found to respond to UDI, for new treatment, it is due to changing assumptions in the home country. And that is important: the changed assumptions that can be made in the home country must be taken into account by an administrative court, and that takes into account the Finnish Administrative Court, so that it can be used when the final decision is taken. What was the main issue with the Administrative Court was respect for decisions. It was throughout the entire administration and for the politicians we talked to in Finland. There was a much greater respect for decisions taken in an administrative court than there was for an administrative decision taken by the administration. So it must also be possible for Norway to assess whether an administrative court is right to have here, so that we get a safer, safer, and more efficient treatment of asylum cases. With this – since I see that the time has come – I am promoting the proposals made by the Progress Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2508	The representative of Morten Ørsal Johansen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2511	The centre party will pursue an immigration policy that puts human dignity in the focus and where individual people have clear rights and obligations. The Central Party will have a consistent asylum policy ensuring legal certainty and human rights. Employment migration to Norway represents a significant contribution to the population surplus in all regions. It is an important factor in the Norwegian economy, at the same time confronting us with new challenges as to how the welfare state should be structured. The proposals we are considering today in the United Kingdom clearly show that, with regard to some fundamental aspects of immigration and integration policy, there is a clear distinction between the Progress Party on the one hand and the other parties on the other. It can be done, among other things: on the understanding of reality and the relationship with Norway’s international obligations. Immigration policy is constantly being challenged – and not just by the Progress Party. On the one hand, we have those who claim that policy is naive and unsuccessful, that immigrants have too easy access to Norway. On the other hand, we have those who believe that Norway is overly strict, even inhuman and hearty, policies towards immigrants. Sometimes it is difficult to understand that it is the same immigration policy that both criticise. Personally, I welcome the debate. I think it's healthy, and I would have been far more concerned if we hadn't had any debate, or if the criticism had only come from one edge. Immigration policies are largely concerned with balancing different considerations. It's demanding, it's necessary – and we know that we can't make everyone ready. Although immigration policy is largely about balancing different considerations, there are some considerations that alone weigh so heavily that in my view they should not be subject to assessment. As a responsible member of the world community, we cannot assess, in the view of the Centre Party, whether Norway should comply with its international obligations. Persecuted persons seeking asylum in Norway are entitled to protection and to humane and equitable treatment, whether they like it or not. Many of the proposals made by the proposers have been made in the past. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Progress Party, consider that several of the proposals are either contrary to – or must be presumed to be contrary to – the international commitments of Norway. We should be open to debate also on immigration policy, but not on proposals that violate our international obligations. In addition, several of the proposals are costly and may prevent integration, which is the very opposite of what we really need. Stricter rules for immigrants at work, including: with reduced family reunification, e.g. both reduce the quality of life of individuals and probably also prevent the recruitment of the specialist skills needed by Norway. The proposers have set out six so-called guidelines, which they believe must be the foundation of Norwegian immigration policy. The majority of the Committee considers this to be a comprehensive description of today’s Norwegian welfare society. We have come a long way in gender equality in Norway, even when we compare with other European countries. We have a high level of employment, low unemployment and good welfare arrangements. In addition, integration has been better than most other countries. We are at the top of the world in terms of assistance, and our country is characterised by a high level of trust between the inhabitants and between the inhabitants and the authorities. Immigrants make up a little over 13 pst. of the population representing 12 pst. of the total employment. Many immigrants are already of great importance as a resource in Norwegian working life, but there is no doubt that too many people are out of work. It's a problem for those involved, and it's a problem for society. That as much as possible has a job to go to, a home to live in and are active in the community is three criteria for successful integration. This is where both society and individual immigrants have an important responsibility. The central party believes that the key to integration lies in activity — activity in the workplace, in school and in the community. It is therefore necessary to specify that immigrants are to be settled in a municipality as soon as possible, initiate an introduction programme and get out of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2530	As I was not in this room in 2008, when a similar proposal was debated, I just need to add a few words to this proposal. First of all, with integration, because I see that the Progress Party in its proposal uses integration policy instruments to tighten up asylum policy. In my view, such a combination is not a good thing, at least if you want to succeed in integration. As has been said by previous speakers, drawing a picture of Norwegian integration policy as if it had been totally unsuccessful, is not to be true about integration in Norway. Compared to some other OECD countries, Norway has come quite far, without saying that we have succeeded in all areas. Integration must continue to focus on, because I see that in several areas we can also get much better here in Norway. I note that this proposal also goes into action to make it more difficult on labour immigration. Now the Committee on its last two tours has had up these themes, both in More and Romesdal and in Finnmark. We've met a business that's very clear that they hadn't completed this growth, it wouldn't have been just for immigrant workers who come and do an important job. This is incredibly important also for the districts. So I ask the Progress Party to think a little bit through the restrictions proposed in the area of labour migration. For this with closed reception: I do not know if representatives of the Progress Party have visited a closed reception. The undersigned has done so. When the committee was traveling to Australia and New Zealand, I started that trip a little before and used, among other things. a day to visit a closed reception. Closed reception may sound a little reckless, but let me just make it clear that closed reception is a prison. It's a prison where people are locked in without freedom of movement. Now I'm not going to compare the conditions in Australia and Norway, but I've been to a closed reception. It has made an impression, and I really hope that there will be no policy here in Norway. So for the discussion between the Council of State and the representative of the Progress Party on possible violations of human rights and international obligations. For my part, I want to say that in the case of human rights, they are – as they are formulated in the UN human rights – minimum rights. There are rights that have to be in place, at least they have to be in place to talk about having a kind of propriety around a human life. I would strongly warn against imposing asylum policy as closely as possible against these minimum rights. Then there is always a danger of treading over, and that is so much a message to all of us. Otherwise, I find the discussion between the Council of State and the Advancement Party interesting on a day such as this with regard to the meaning of Article 3 of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and the importance of it – especially when we have seen the SV, the partner of the Workers' Party today, expressing dissatisfaction with the UN report in connection with the notification of refugees to children, where it is required by the Christian People's Party and the Left, namely a regulatory change, because one sees that the best interests of children are not being properly cared for. I just wanted to mention it in this context. In the end, there are also restrictions on family reunification. You want to introduce a 24-year rule. On the Committee's trip to Copenhagen not long ago, we discussed it with our Danish colleagues, who could not refer to any research or results that show that the 24-year rule has no purpose or significance. But it may be that the Progress Party knows something they don't know, and we don't know. Otherwise, I am pleased, and I also support, many of the answers that the Minister of Justice has given to the Committee in connection with this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2549	It's an election fight. Then the Progress Party draws the immigration card, and then they get very tired when we say that they draw the immigration card, because we are the others who start first. Sandberg said that in the debate at the House of Literature now last Thursday. But today's debate must be an example of the fact that there is an immigration card drawn here. The starting point for the Progress Party is as usual a mix of biases, lack of knowledge and probably some tactical assessments. Here, there is really not much talk, as it is called, of immigrants, of diversity, of religions other than Christians, of life's views, etc., nor of immigration policy, because it is described as 'naive and unsuccessful and challenges the trust among themselves in Norwegian society'. That with confidence is certainly right, but it's the opposite of what the Progress Party claims. It is the Progress Party that constantly challenges mutual trust in Norwegian society by so systematically painting, problematizing, seeing problems over opportunities and not least dolling or cowardly away in the debate on international commitments. No, perhaps not international commitments – one could sometimes dream that the Maritime Progress Party took a more offensive, a warmer, approach to the problems that are out there in the world that make people on the move more than ever. Think about whether the Progress Party could occasionally feel a certain responsibility for helping those people! The whole comment on the Progress Party is that when people flee, it is Norway that has a problem – it is not people on the run who have a problem. The progress party doesn't say 100 pst. in a clear text, but almost, namely that Norway should pursue an asylum and refugee policy ‘for the benefit of its citizens’. So the focus is on our sail. It is – obviously – right for the Progress Party that we should be marine enough. The Progress Party refers to the NOU Velferd and Migration, where, among other things: is: ‘Some groups of refugees and family reunification have a difficult starting point for participation in Norwegian working life.’ It's a matter of course they do. If you've lived in a country marked by war, from which you're fleeing, you've been searing at first a somewhat more demanding challenge in getting into the labour market. For SV and fortunately most other parties, more or less, this is a clear signal that we need action, we need reinforced integration policies, with punctuations like language, education, work, housing, etc., but for the Progress Party, sadly, it's a signal to close the border, to build higher walls. In addition to the comments in the setting, the Progress Party is growing poorly. KMM is called in the management profession - food with discontent. The maximum is related to the number 4 100 billion. kr. This is because the Progress Party has fallen in love with an SSB report, macro-economics and public finances in different scenarios of immigration. Siv Jensen bluffed himself at the national conference chair with all these minus billions, but withdrew to the Political Quarter on Monday, the day after the national meeting. Then, Siv Jensen met the SSB researcher and was no longer able to defend his light-hearted use of that research report. But now it actually shows up again, the same numbers and the same argument, in this setting, so it was probably just a temporary victory for the SSB researcher when the party leader in the Progress Party agreed that this was abuse of that kind of number. One of the great theorists and to some extent the practitioners of dialogue, Jürgen Habermas, is very concerned that in debates one should try to seek out the good arguments, and had to win the best argument in the debate. But it assumes that there is a somewhat agreed starting point for the dialogue. It is clear that there is a complete lack of debate here today. The progress party on the one hand and all of us on the other side have completely different perceptions of reality here, of what is happening out in our society, of what kind of immigrants we are talking about, and of what kind of international networks characterized by laws, rules and conventions we live after today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2569	Former presidents have designated the words ‘fig’ and ‘figility’ as unparliamentary. If the president remembers correctly, the representative used the expression 'fake away'. The President considers it necessary to point out that there is an expression contained in the same sequence as the previous words that the President mentioned here.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2572	The current proposal for a representative of the Committee concerns the main principles of the whole immigration and refugee policy. The government will pursue a humane, fair and consistent asylum policy and is concerned with the balance between the various considerations to be taken into account. The government has implemented a number of restrictions during the last two periods. The number of asylum seekers has fallen since 2008-2009, and a greater proportion of those arriving have a real need for protection. Last year this resulted in that in 54 pst. protection was granted by all matters dealt with in substance. The proposed representative places disproportionate emphasis on control and immigration regulation. International obligations and humanitarian considerations are set aside, and a number of new conditions are proposed that would make the proceedings disproportionately resource-intensive and square. One of the overall elements of the proposal is the restrictive interpretation of general international law and international conventions. The proposers will delete what it says today that the law should be applied in accordance with international rules by which Norway is bound, when these are intended to strengthen the position of the individual. Following the proposal, only the EEA rules and agreements between the Nordic countries shall be referred to. The proposal would clearly show a completely different attitude to international human rights conventions than is known to Norway today. I have drawn up examples in my letter of 4 June of the fact that the proposal for a representative on a number of points contradicts – or seems to require a practice contrary to – our obligations under international law. I would add that when the committee rapporteurs focus on which asylum seekers can ‘document’ that they are at risk of persecution, I am further concerned about whether the proposers take the Refugee Convention seriously. No «documentation» may be required for persecution; potential offenders rarely give advance notice in writing. I record that the representative Morten Ørsal Johansen stated to Dagbladet on 7 June that the policy of the Progress Party is in line with that implemented in Denmark and Finland. Although it is true that many elements of the legislative proposals of the proposers are inspired by the rules of Danish legislation, it is so many and important differences that it is completely wrong to set similarities. Comparison with Finnish legislation is becoming even more misleading. It will lead far too far to go into all the details, but I feel the need to bring something forward, since also the representative Ørsal Johansen came up with this earlier today: Both Denmark and Finland comply with the conditions of the Schengen acquis relating to internal border controls. Both countries comply with the rules of the Refugee Convention on exclusion from refugee status. Neither Denmark nor Finland has such a practice as proposed by the proposers to refer refugees to seek protection in neighbouring countries. None of the countries has the right to refuse humanitarian residence for groups of nationality who experience greater integration challenges than others. Both countries have legislation and practices that allow attention to health and humanitarian issues in the evaluation of asylum cases. Both countries have provisions in the expulsion legislation that either refer to international obligations or impose their own requirements to assess the proportionality of expulsion. None of the countries have such strict prison rules as proposed in the Document 8 proposal that asylum seekers are ‘to be imprisoned’ until the identity is established. These are just some of the many important examples of differences between the proposal and the policy in Denmark and Finland. Therefore, the relationship between the proposals put forward and the rules of international law cannot be explained by reference to Danish and Finnish legislation. I also see this that the representative Ørsal Johansen has recognised in Dagbladet on 12 June. In addition, I would like to refer to the letter that I have sent to the Committee today, where I will go further into the details of these questions. It leads too far to address the details, but this should contribute to further documentation of the issues raised in the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2616	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2619	In one of our proposals that we have been much criticized for, we say that one can get family reunification when one has received a permanent residence permit. The criticism is that we say you can get a permanent residence permit after six years – it's inhumane and contrary to international conventions. In Denmark, a few family reunions may take place after three years with a permanent residence permit. In order to obtain a permanent residence permit, one must have been legal in Denmark for five years. Five plus three is eight. For me, eight years is more than six years. Isn't that what the Council of State does?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2626	The government has strengthened the requirement for secure entertainment, including: to ensure that families established in Norway are more self-sufficient. We have also had a proposal to raise maintenance requirements in matters relating to the establishment of a new family life, which are not regulated by EEA law. These recordings are now being evaluated in the ministry. With regard to the proposal to require the reference person to have a permanent residence permit, which can only be obtained after six years with the proposal of the proposers, as I remember, before it is possible to stay for the family members, this is, in our opinion, a disproportionate condition. If this requirement was also intended to apply to refugees and their family members, this may also be contrary to Article 8 of the Convention.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2633	Then my next question is, as our proposal for a six-year stay can be contrary to international conventions: Denmark has eight years. Has Denmark been convicted in any context of its legislation that you must have stayed for eight years in order to have family reunification?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2638	I am not aware that this is the case. There is also some of the background to the wording I have chosen in some areas related to the proposals of the Progress Party representatives. We know that in individual cases it is the courts that make their judgements and the final decisions. So as I understand the general leadership behind the proposals, I have chosen to express myself as I have done.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2643	I'm almost tempted to get a little relief from the Council of State, because in Denmark you're more liberal with a direct permanent residence permit. So it's not always going to be three plus five. But what I was going to ask the state council is a 2010 NOU, which is now lying and probably collecting dust in the third year in a department drawer. What I am looking for is the decision of the Mæland Committee with the theme of a new complaint in the foreign administration. We've been assured that we're going to the Stortinget, and we think so, but then we've assumed that it was actually the current big deal. My question to the Council of State is: Is there a matter of appeal in the administration of foreign affairs?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2650	We've been working on that goal throughout the last year, and the aim is to ensure that this matter is dealt with by a large number of people. It's late in the session, so here's of course a piece of work that I'd like to have seen that we could put forward earlier, but different other things have had to be assigned higher priority. Then I would like to thank the representative Tetzschner for the opening comment. For this reason, it is obvious how some of these proposals are actually quite complex and therefore difficult to understand in the public at large. That is why, from my point of view, there were quite thorough replies to the Committee on the individual proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2657	It's a big focus on the rights of foreigners and those who come here. Is there sometimes the Council of State feels a need to perhaps put on a slightly larger pair of glasses and think: what is happening to the nation of Norway in the long term? The first immigrants came to Norway for approx. 50 years ago. There were a few Pakistani people in the 1970s, when Odvar Nordli was prime minister, and you didn't know what to do. They had come here via Germany. Today, immigrants will be in majority in Oslo over the next decade, and the average cost of a non-Western immigrant is 4.1 million. kr in a lifetime. This has been documented by the SSB, so we don't have to discuss that anymore. In other words, we face enormous challenges both economically and culturally. Is it the case for the Council of State that it is more important to think about the rights of foreigners and those who come here than how Norway is going in the long term? Or is it entirely right for the Council of State that the Norwegian people get into a minority in our own country in a few decades?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2668	We're good in Norway. We are committed to ensuring all rights and the ability to assert their rights, including those from other countries. This is part of the background that we have clear, fair and predictable rules in the Foreign Affairs Act, which we also seek to apply in a good way. We often have discussions in this Chamber about these rules should be changed, and I also hear parties who want us to have stricter rules than we have today. Other parties want us to be more liberal. I feel more than in other areas that we need to ensure – as I said – clear, predictable and fair rules in the field of foreigners.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2675	The chord shift has been completed. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2680	Proposalers make a number of changes to the Foreign Affairs Act which may in fact lead to Norway’s interpretation and practice in foreign affairs being contrary to Norway’s Convention obligations. I would like to refer to the proposal for a new § 31 and the provisions that a refugee can be excluded from the refugee status he has, as they want to take out the wording ‘non-political’ crime as a basis for losing refugee status. We will thus have a rule that says that they should be able to lose their refugee status by committing a ‘serious crime’ beyond Norway’s borders before coming to Norway. Here the proposers provide for a legislative wording which is not within the scope of the refugee convention. As I see these extensive changes in principle and in practice in the foreign field in Norway, this proposal I think is not the right of life. I refer you to the statements made by the President-in-Office of the Council of Faremo. I would also like to point out the proposal for a new Section 23. Under today's rules, a residence permit is granted which may form the basis of a permanent residence permit for skilled migrant workers. The proposers have proposed to amend this in their proposal to Section 23. In the coming years, Norway will be in great need of labour immigration, both by skilled craftsmen and highly trained engineers, among others. in the oil industry in the West and in North Norway. In the proposal, the Progress Party says that it is also important for Norway to have a higher level of labour immigration for people with high education and skills than today. I agree with that. But how will the Progress Party facilitate that those with this competence and education will apply for a job in Norway and come here? Proposalers would like it not to be possible to use a residence permit for work immigration as a basis for permanent residence. But won't the Progress Party's proposal for a new section 23 make it less attractive for this group to come to Norway and work? The proposal will undoubtedly weaken the possibility of making Norway attractive to foreign experts, who both the government parties and the Progress Party want to recruit to Norwegian business. Who will break up from home, seek happiness in Norway, come here and start working, and then afterwards see that you are happy and want to get your family here, without it being possible to get this to? For the Progress Party, the proposal states that only foreigners with a ‘permanent residence permit’ can obtain family members to Norway. Then they just want to exclude the immigrants from coming here and working here to get the family here. Establishing itself as a worker in Norway would not be possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2692	I am very much pleased with the criticism that we are receiving for this proposal from politically correct Norway. It's a criticism we know is not compatible with what much of the Norwegian people think, but it gets to be. It is said from this speaker that integration in Norway is among the best in the world. It was pointed out that we have a high level of employment, one comes to work, one takes education, etc. Yes, some take education, and some are working and doing a good job too. But it is a fact that there is a lower level of employment among the immigrant population. This indicates that integration is not working, and that we have to do something. There are many that fall outside, and that's actually as much as 40 pst. which are out of work or training after they have completed the introduction scheme. It's critical, and we have to do something about it. I would also like to point out – as the representative Mr Greni was in the Chamber – that 13 p.m. the population is immigrants, and 30 pst. of those receiving social support in Norway have a migrant background. And we're satisfied with the integration. To me, it's a tragedy. Action needs to be taken here, and it needs to be done quickly. When we look at the criticism we get about preventing immigration to Norway, border control, we can and cannot adopt, it seems to me that Norway has given up much of its sovereignty to international conventions, and that we no longer have the right to rule over our own country. I think that is regrettable and sad, because Norway is actually a country of its own and must be able to control its own country and its own people. In the case of lack of knowledge, SV is in large possession of it – to an over-measure, in fact. But Hagen has himself stated that large immigration will have consequences for the Norwegian economy. With regard to the figures on which the representative Becquerad was involved and the criticism of our party leader, the SSB has not at all denied the correctness of the figures. The numbers are right, and that's not what this case is about. To Becquerad: Yes, we have visited a closed reception for asylum. We were in Finland and looked at a closed reception with which the Finns were satisfied. They were overjoyed with the way it was driven, how it worked, and they wanted a great expansion of the system. Finally, Section 3 of our proposal states: ‘Section 3 is replaced by the following: the relationship of law with international rules: the law shall be applied in accordance with EEA rules, EFTA rules and Nordic conventions.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2716	I have to start with a confession: I have gone straight into the progress stage with both legs. The next thing I know is that I'm at risk of indictment from the President, since I'm going to express my emotional life from the Parliament's pulpit. I am quite upset and quite pissed at some of the words used here. The Progress Party is trying to turn this debate into a technical discussion, but that is not what it is about. It is – as the Council of State said – about some fundamental issues of value in our country. The Progress Party brings together discussions on labour immigration, educational immigration, refugees and asylum seekers. Then they're trying to represent it as if we have a violent influx of refugees into this country. That's not true. They make up the small, small minority, but what this discussion is about is cutting people off from the possibility of coming to Norway and getting a better life. Morten Ørsal Johansen was in his first post saying that when people come to Norway, it must have something to do with the law, that it is attractive for people to come to Norway. No, people come to Norway because, after all, this is a pretty good country to live in. There are many people around the world who envy us the possibilities and assumptions we have, and there are many who want to participate in it. Maybe Norway in the 21st century is the United States. Maybe this is where you have the opportunity to live out the American dream of this century. We can discuss whether this is a question of the relationship with international conventions and obligations, or whether it is a question of our own view of humanity, and how to take care of our fellow human beings. Let us first take this with international commitments: this is not the first time in this period that we have this discussion, because the Progress Party has previously – in line with North Korea – proposed to cancel international commitments to which a country has joined. The last time we debated this in this room, it was ILO Convention No. 169 on the rights of the common people as indigenous peoples in the country concerned. Now they present a wide range of proposals that are in conflict or can be strongly suspected of being contrary to the United Nations Convention on Refugees, the Children's Convention, the Racial Discrimination Convention, the United Nations Convention on Civil and Political Rights, the European Convention on Human Rights and the Vienna Convention. This isn't just about it. It's also about how to actually look at how to take care of those who are on the run. I see that my speaking time is about to go out, so I continue in my next post.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2735	I want to start by reminding you of a point that the Council of State has actually used as an important point in several debates, including here in this Chamber, if I don't remember wrong: for a small country like Norway, and for other small countries like ours, it is absolutely essential to have order in the relationship with international conventions. The conventions may be of the utmost importance to us small countries. I myself sit as one of the representatives of the Storting in the Council of Europe – our Human Rights Organisation – and I see there that when we try to defend human rights in some of the so-called new democracies, we face up to accusations of double standards, if there is anything to postpone on our Western country's relationship with international conventions and human rights. So it not only has an impact on people who come to our country, but it also has an impact on the debate on democracy in a wider European context. I also think we have a responsibility to ensure that the debate goes on the tracks it should go on. I would like to comment on a few of the things that have been said here: Morten Ørsal Johansen pointed out that in Denmark it can go up to eight years before refugees have the right to family reunification, if I perceive his question to the Council of State correctly. Trine Bramsen, spokesperson for the Social Democrats in the Danish Parliament, has commented on part of the proposals for the Progress Party in Dagbladet in an article on Wednesday 12 June. On the point that the Advance Party wants refugees not to be entitled to family reunification until they have received a permanent residence permit after at least six years of residence, she says that this is not a Danish policy: ‘In Denmark, refugees may benefit from family reunification shortly after they have obtained asylum, in particular in the case of children.’ Chances are that Trine Bramsen will come to visit us on Wednesday, so if anyone is interested in deepening that point, we will be able to arrange a meeting, because asylum is on the agenda of those meetings. Otherwise Morten Ørsal Johansen says that the majority in this case is not in keeping with the Norwegian people. I believe that this is wrong. I believe that the annual opinion polls of the Statistical Centre, where the Nordics are asked about their attitudes towards immigrants, show a predominantly positive attitude, which also goes in the right direction. As for Christian Tybring-Gjedde's reference to the SSB, I get back to it in a new post, because I see that the time is running out. I say thank you now and draw me again for commenting on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2755	I'm still upset, so I keep going where I left off. I concluded by saying that this is not just a question of all the international commitments we have, it is also a question of how to look at people on the run here in Norway, and of how to accept them. Let me mention three aspects of the proposals that the Progress Party is promoting, which at least upset me. One is that you want to introduce closed receptions — or prisons. So here you're going to lock up children, women and men for an indefinite period of time, without a fair trial. For me, this is contrary to a fundamental legal position and, in my view, it must also be contrary to Article 5 of the European Convention on Human Rights. The second step is to weaken or eliminate the possibility of staying on imperative health, social or humanitarian grounds. So you want to throw serious sick people out of the country. Heavy-weight human considerations just want to be overlooked. That is the policy the Progress Party wants to put in place. And the third is that it is completely horrified, in the light of Ørsal Johansen's statement that it is the Progress Party that is in line with the people, that when the rest of Norway discusses how we consider the consideration of the children's best for the long-term children in Norway by parents who have sought asylum but who have not received it, the Progress Party therefore chooses in its proposal to remove the provision that the best interests of children should be a fundamental consideration and reword it to take into account 'the best interests of the child'. Again, in my opinion – and now I'm just a layman in the field – it's in violation of the Children's Convention. Thank you very much to the representative, Bekkevold, who, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, made a settlement with the proposals that exist, but I must allow myself to ask for clarification from the Left and the Right about where you stand. For this is not a debate on legal issues, this is a debate on fundamental values. And if it's at this level we're going to see the bourgeois write together, it's so far okay, we have no problem going to elections on it, but in that case it's completely new tones from the Left and the Right, and I'm calling for their views on these proposals also in the debate. Then I must be allowed to say that for once I disagree with the state council Faremo, because I don't think this is so very difficult to understand for the opinion. It can be difficult if we make it a legal discussion. But once again, this is not a legal discussion, this is a discussion about value issues, and then we're going to find a way to organize it. The Progress Party says that they want to take care of the Norwegian values and take care of the nation, but in their eagerness to do so, they put aside one of the most important features of Norwegian culture, namely humanity and taking care of the weakest in our own society and in the rest of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2774	This is the discussion that the representative Tybring-Gjedde once again went up, namely about the figures that the Statistical Central Bureau has presented, where the researchers themselves say that their figures are used in a way that is contrary to what it is based on. And yet, the Progress Party continues to use these numbers in its own way. Tybring-Gjedde said that an immigrant costs 4.1 million. kr in a lifetime. The Central Statistical Agency has also added to that life cycle to have children and grandchildren, who are going to have school, who are going to have kindergartens, which are going to have SFOs, so it includes a lot, much more than the Tybring-Gyde apparently added to it. In addition, the Central Statistical Office says that when they count on their numbers, they count on what they call commitments. So that doesn't mean the same thing as payments. These are numbers that are totaled over 86 years. There's no prognosis, but everything that's summed up over 86 years is going to be a lot of numbers. During these 86 years, however, we have the opportunity to influence a lot, and the best influence is to get more people to work. Then I just refer to the extensive debate we had here in connection with the communication on integration. We're not going to do it again now, but we just had it. The more we manage to get into work, the better it is, says Statistical Central Bureau, because they count not only on what you contribute in direct taxes into society, but also on what you contribute indirectly through taxes, corporate taxes and other things. So there are huge gains to get people to work. If one then is not willing to accept these numbers, if one then says, as the Progress Party does in its comments, that this is going to cost us 4 100 billion. kr over that period of 86 years, and NOK 6000 billion. If we pull it out even further in time, it might be enough to remember, to get a little perspective on what we're really talking about, the pension obligations we have in Norway today. We have a pension fund that today has a market value of 4 666 billion. kr. The value of the pension rights already earned is 5770 billion for the deceased and the survivors of 1 175 billion. and State pension fund of 536 billion– a combined pension liability of 7 481 billion. kr. But this isn't going to be paid out in one block; it doesn't mean Norway is bankrupt. It is paid over the individual state budget, and it is affected by many conditions, both wages and interest rates, and everything else that I don't have time to mention now. And then maybe we'll put these numbers in the right perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2785	I will allow myself to demand some honesty in this debate. Now it is nothing new that debates about immigration are not necessarily very frank, but it would have been good if at least the proposals of the Progress Party, as they are on the table, and that they were fair in their dealings with international conventions Norway are bound by. For this reason, the representatives of bigots – who rightly refer to themselves as playwrights – stand here and claim that the proposals of the Progress Party on, for example. closed reception is contrary to Article 5 of the European Convention on Human Rights. That's not right. There is clearly an opening in the European Convention on Human Rights to use what we call closed reception. And it has nothing to do with punishment, when you try to say that it's a prison. Prison is something you're sitting in to punish a crime you've committed. Operation with closed reception is about protecting society against people who come from abroad, who are not necessarily known about their identity, or why they come to Norway. That is why many countries are doing this, within today's international agreements and within current conventions. Here's a big room for action. And trying to pretend that – as I also perceive the Council of State is doing – this is contrary to international conventions, without being concrete, has nothing to do with honesty. So there are a number of countries that practice what we call closed reception. Then one tries to give the impression that today's policy is not on a collision course with the people, and the representative Christoffersen refers to an investigation that is about the North's attitudes towards immigrants. Yes, the Nordics have a sensible attitude: they meet people who have lived in our country in a good way. But it's not about being part of today's immigration policy. There are two different bowls. Resistance to long-term immigration policies in Norway is high. It's about – and it demonstrates this debate today – going wild in the details and rules and accusations of conventions without seeing the long lines, what happens, how society changes, because of a policy of immigration that lacks sustainability. It lacks economic sustainability. It's confirmed by the SSB, even if you're trying to talk away from it. And in the short term, in a few decades, the population composition, the demography of this country, is going to change fundamentally. That is the big challenge, and it does not exist in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2792	I was challenged by the representative Sivertsen to clarify what the Right believes. We've been to the majority comments and given them the necessary quality, so that you can read what we mean. With regard to this proposal for a representative, I would say that it would have been a good idea to start with a realistic starting point, namely, to find out at best the location of the national space of action. That's what international conventions do. That's why there's a certain tendency for exaggeration on both sides – a little more than what we've written notes on. Since I am first here, I may also have to share that observation – after sitting on the Stortinget during this period, only – that the foreign field has not been at all in peace. It has been quite dynamic, and most of the changes that have come from the red-green government have been tightening up the legislation. In this way, the Progress Party should be more satisfied with the government than they give the impression. Then, of course, we can have the Progress Party suspected of always wanting to keep a solid distance from the rest of political Norway by constantly taking positions on the outer edges. Maybe that's what they're hurt for, when they also run into international conventions. So I can reassure the representative Sivertsen that we are in favor of the international conventions – not just because they are jus, but because they are carried by common ways of seeing humanity. One also sees that there may be a need to streamline the Norwegian foreign administration and to ensure that there is no undue length of processing time, which in itself can establish realities and pressures that no one has earned. To the representative Amundsen, I have to say that he might have gone a little over the intervention it represents to restrain people in so-called closed reception – on the grounds that often people are held back without being punished. It's in itself right, but it's still intrusive. We can only imagine taking care of ourselves. It's not a criminal institution, either. Of course, you have it to prevent people's freedom of movement on the grounds of suspicion of a risk of loss of proof, or to prevent you from simply evading the long arm of the law. We have the funds for the groups we are afraid to avoid an administrative decision. There is no reason to have such an intervention when it is not necessary. It would otherwise be contrary to the principle of proportionality, which is enshrined in international law.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2807	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2810	I think maybe I have 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2815	No, you don't. After the main speakers from each party, you have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2818	I haven't had the floor on that list of speakers, but I'm going to do it in three minutes if the president doesn't take up my time. I noticed that the Workers' Party's view left has worked too little in these interview days. But we shall be able to take the floor in this debate as well. I have also noticed that someone thought it was unclear what left stood for in the asylum and refugee policy. If you haven't realized it after the last four years, I think you have to be alone about it. I believe that the Progress Party with these proposals is in a way sidelined by the political debate, because there are so many measures that both violate international conventions and are so far away from all the other political parties that it is quite remote to imagine that some of them will have a majority in this Chamber. What should concern the Workers' Party is that there have been so many restraints in the last eight years that the Progress Party must despite international conventions to be able to be on the outside side of the government today. I would like to comment on some of the proposals – also the view of honesty. There is no ban on closed reception. We use closed receptions in Norway, for example: Trandum, and we'll use it when we're afraid that someone will avoid an exit. Tetzschner gave a good and accurate account of the cases in which prisons can be used, for detention is prison — nothing else. We are also using prison today to protect society, not just as a punishment. But claiming that anyone seeking asylum is carrying out a criminal act or an act that involves avoiding the things that Tetzschner mentioned in his post, I believe violates international conventions. Seeking asylum is a human right, not a crime. The crime takes place only at the time when there is a risk that you will be evading a public decision. So it's this with the price of people. If you sit down and read the Norwegian national budget, you can see that Norway is not profitable. There are very few Northmen who are really profitable. I'm a little excited to hear what the Progress Party will do to those Northmen who are not profitable. Do you have a plan for how to solve it, or are there just non-residents that are not profitable and that you're supposed to have out? The vast majority of people living in this country are not actually profitable. We don't have a welfare state that's balanced, and it's one of the big concerns for many of us that we actually don't have it. Then you have to question whether there is only someone who is going to have, and others who are not going to have, a price tag on them, or whether we are going to make sure that our welfare state is balanced, both for those who come here and for those who are born and grown up here.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2836	I will continue where the representative Skei Grande left off – in the debate about who is paying, and not. We've seen the debate of the last few weeks on which immigrants pay off, and which immigrants don't. It is not unexpected that non-Western immigrants cost the Norwegian society the most, while integration is easier for those who are more like us. The danger of this type of calculation is that sorting people into groups can be quite unaccountable. If you, for example, For example, when all Norwegian men under the age of 25 were sent to Svalbard, crime in the mainland would be reduced by about 80 pst. Of course, society would be more profitable if no one grew old and demanded care. Like several others here in the past, the main challenges facing Norwegian society are not which immigrants pay or not. The challenge is that the even Northman is not profitable in such an account. We don't always have to write our posts ourselves when we're going to this pulpit. I now read from a very well-written editorial in Drammen’s Official Journal. Societal editor Odd Myklebust wrote a editorial on the basis of the successful integration we have seen, among other things. nests in Norway. In the last section, Myklebust writes among others.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The sufferer always knows what something costs, but never knows its value.’ This is a quote from Oscar Wilde. Myklebust also reminds us at the end of the very well-written editorial of what representatives of Bosnian society in my home municipality themselves pointed out as very essential in order to succeed in a good integration: they pointed out the welcome they received as an important premise in order to be able to contribute quickly. It is about belonging — the key to integration — it is about how we choose to meet people who come to Norway, whether they come to contribute to the creation of value in Norway as workers, or they are people who come here to seek protection because they are persecuted in their home country. I wish we didn't have a election campaign where immigrants and a demise of them will be somebody's attempt to get an extra mandate or two, because it might fail – that on the contrary, it turns out the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2856	I also very much agree with the representative of Christoffersen – I fully agree that we should not have a campaign that will knock down immigrants. I can see that all the parties are occupied with it. But that does not mean that we should not discuss ‘the elephant in space’, which is Norwegian immigration policy. It is the system and the criticism of the system, of the number of people who come and settle in Norway at a far too fast pace in relation to what Norwegian integration policy can meet, which is the fundamental, fundamental challenge: that people cross the border and settle here faster than it is possible to integrate these people. But it's not a criticism of people; it's a criticism of the system. If you can keep your tongue straight in your mouth, it's going to be fine. No one can exclude a political field from the free political debate by trying to say that there is criticism of immigrants. No, it's the system that's being criticized. In the same system — it has been up here several times when we talk about the international conventions — it is not that all countries are unreservedly behind all conventions. On the contrary, a number of countries, including Europe, make reservations about parts of the Convention texts. Norway's problem has been that we are relatively uncritical in our dealings with international conventions, which can often give us some cat pain. Our challenge has been that we have not thought thoroughly enough through the treatment of the conventions. I think that's a challenge. Thus, it is not obvious that one should accept what is established — the conventions of which Norway is bound — as forever and ever. No, you have to be able to look at it in the light of new political events, in the light of the evolution of society. At least that's what the Progress Party is doing. So I think it's very funny when the representative Sivertsen is trying to give the impression that there's no connection between immigration rules on the one hand and the number of people coming on the other. After all, his own government has confirmed that it is. It was therefore a reason why the government of Stoltenberg in the last period – the autumn of 2008 – tightened up its asylum policy. There was a reason for that. The reason was simply that asylum figures went up dramatically. Then you had to tighten in. So even his own government is familiar with these contexts. His own government has, in fact, also tightened up when it comes to human considerations. So it's not automatically possible to stay in Norway because if you have a serious illness. His own government tightened in the last period on the granting of residence on a humanitarian basis for those who had HIV. That's just one example. I again demand a real debate and not a skin debate that goes very much in the press.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2869	Yes, it is true that several of the speakers have been involved, among other things. The representative Amundsen, that we have made changes in policy – and with good effect, for the number of unfounded applications has fallen. That was also the purpose. What distinguishes us is that we are concerned with sorting out those who are unwarranted, and we are quite clear that those who come to Norway to seek help and protection are staying here. But what made me take the floor was the interesting plays that I heard the representative Amundsen now come along with. What I hear from Amundsen is that international commitments and conventions, to which we have actually given our agreement, should not stand in the way. Then there is the interesting question: What international commitments and conventions we are dealing with today, does the Progress Party consider that we should resign, go out of it, so that we can accommodate the even more restrictive policy that the Progress Party wants?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2876	I feel I should answer the question to the representative Sivertsen. I believe it is absolutely so that this hall, the Norwegian Grand Prix, unfortunately does not have a sufficient overview of the ties that have been made through international agreements and international conventions. I think it would have been wise to take a new review of it and look at the constraints it imposes on us as a nation. I think we have some challenges with regard to the Constitution in fact – in fact with regard to the Constitution – which are most real, with the fact that we have given too much sovereignty. For my part, at least I'm not in doubt. If international agreements are on a collision course with the Constitution, it is not difficult for me to choose which side I support. Then it's the Constitution. I think it's a real problem. That is why we have to be sober, go through international agreements, assess them in the light of today's real political situation. I think there is a great need for that. But the space for action in today's conventions, in today's agreements, is large enough for us to implement the immigration policy of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2887	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 17.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2901	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2910	The proposal concerns two separate cases — for the first administrative decision against host families who abuse the aupair system, so-called quarantine provisions, and for the second expulsion as a result of criminal offences committed before the granting of the initial authorisation and the implementation of decisions for EEA citizens with the right of residence under Section 111 of the Foreign Affairs Act. With regard to the aupair scheme, we are only reminded that Norway acceded to the Council of Europe's agreement on the recruitment of au pair in 1969 – an agreement on which we are of course bound. This means that au pairs shall have time to attend language courses and work a maximum of five hours a day. The number of persons granted au pair residence permits has increased, and today's au pairs have changed slightly since the 1960s. They now come from developing countries to a greater extent than was usual in the past. The proposal on quarantine schemes aims at strengthening the cultural aspect and preventing au pairs from being used as cheap labour. Under the foreign regulation, a foreigner may receive a residence permit as an au pair in Norway for a total of two years when the contract meets the more detailed requirements of the UDI. In return for the stay in the host family, au pairen performs certain tasks such as facilitating housework, care of children, etc. Au pairen must be between 18 and 30 years of age and must be able to participate in Norwegian training. Today, quarantine is not allowed against host family who violates the conditions of aupair residence. An overall committee indicates that the purpose of the scheme is to allow for international cultural and language exchanges at an interpersonal level, through the presence of young people in a Norwegian family. In return, the au pair contributes with defined benefits, as mentioned above. The Committee agrees that there are conditions under which the relationship is not, or is developing to be, an exploitation of the au pairs as cheap, unskilled labour, and we believe that the proposals will contribute to the protection of the fair use of the auair system by providing for administrative decisions allowing the host family to be quarantined if the conditions for the auair maintenance are violated. We also believe that the proposals for penalties have been made at a reasonable level as long as there is a breach of the specific conditions of the residence permit in connection with the stay. On one point, the Committee has shared its views. The parties to the Government shall form the majority of the Committee. They believe that, in principle, it would be nice to have had a common Nordic regulatory framework in this area, but they do not think it is very practical how the rules are designed in the other Nordic countries today. As you know, Finland and Sweden do not have rules on quarantine, and the Danish rules contain rules that differ slightly from those proposed in the proposal. The members of the Committee from the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party would nevertheless have considered it an advantage if we had been able to approach the Danish rules, which are only marginally different, because it had given the Nordic a greater degree of justice seen from the outside. Then we could work for Finland and Sweden to come after. Some of us have enjoyed participating in the Nordic Council. That's why we don't take more account of each other when we have new legislation in the process, constantly up. This is an example of how you can't seize the possibilities. Then the members of the Committee from the Progress Party raised an interesting issue, and it is whether or not the au pair can be held responsible for the absence of tax deductions from the host family. The Progress Party states that any sanctions must be directed against the employer, not against the employee. It's an interesting issue, but it's on the side of the matter. We're not unwilling to go into that discussion in another context. An overall committee would consider the demarcation made in the personality, which may trigger quarantine sanctions to be appropriate. Finally, the proposed second amendment is two clarifications in the Foreign Affairs Act: that criminal convictions for matters that were not known at the time of granting a permanent residence permit shall be assessed on the basis of the rules applicable to temporary residence permits. This is quite logical, as the path to a permanent residence permit is about a temporary residence permit, and the durability of it would depend on whether complete information has been provided when applying for a temporary residence permit. One should not then be able to rely on the increased connection that a permanent residence permit provides, if it has been obtained on wrong premises and detained data.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2938	I am going to be quick, because the rapporteur has presented the matter in a clear way, and we share the most, most of the views expressed by the rapporteur. I just want to comment on a little bit about a common Nordic legislation in this area. The majority have nothing against a common Nordic legislation, but we believe that the government's proposal in this matter is better than the Danish system, precisely because the government's proposal requires administrative decisions to be taken in all cases concerning the quarantine of host families. This is not the case in Denmark, where, among other things: is given a judgment. The adoption of administrative decisions will, first of all, prevent the granting of residence as an au pair in cases where the host family actually has quarantine, which may happen if the quarantine is automatically imposed in the extension of a judgment in the judiciary. Secondly, the requirement for administrative decisions will provide better information to the host family on the content of the decision. They will also have the right to complain. Thirdly, the requirement for administrative decisions in all cases will make it easier to keep statistics and to follow up on the use of quarantine provisions. As regards the minority proposal from the Progress Party, the majority does not vote for it. I support the reasons given by the rapporteur on that point.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2951	The case rapporteur gave a very good and correct review of the case, and this is a matter for which there is a great deal of agreement – it should just be lacking, I had almost said. This is to protect those who come to Norway under a cultural exchange scheme that helps people from other countries to become acquainted with Norway. So there are changes to the Foreign Affairs Act, and it says in brackets: ‘abuse of the AUPair System’. There is my little disagreement with the rapporteur and with the previous speaker – that this should be a bit on the side of the matter itself. Is it not an abuse of the scheme to engage in tax evasion? Isn't it an abuse of the scheme to pay net wages to the au pair, so to keep this money for yourself and let au pair get the sense that you've gotten money through being a host family? For me, it's an abuse of the system. It's abuse, and you also break the tax code. For me, it would be quite natural that this had consequences for the person involved – not consequences for the au pair. It was legal legislation for women, JURK, who raised this issue in the hearing and said that this was a problem issue that was relevant and that they so much of. Then it should be possible for us at Stortinget, when we deal with such a case, to take this seriously and take these women seriously – that we do something about it and avoid it going on year and day before someone might find out that you need to make a change in the law so that it gets right. But instead, this shows the misfortune this accumulation sometimes has when it comes to proposals from the opposition. You just dismiss it and see how it goes. The consequence is that au pairs that are exposed to this are subject to a tax charge that far exceeds a normal annual salary in the country from which they come. If there's not an abuse of the system, I don't know. With this I address our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2966	The representative of Morten Ørsal Johansen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2969	First of all, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his good work, including the presentation here today. At best, the aupair arrangement is very good. It's a breathing room in the living room of the person who's taking a nap in the air – most often in new surroundings, perhaps impulsive or relaxing in the middle of a course of study or a job, etc. – for up to two years. For the host family, it is a helpful and pleasant addition to the family and to everyday life. At best, this is a win-win situation. At worst, however, the aupair system can be an exploitation of vulnerable labour, preferably from poor countries — people who come to us and work in rich Norwegian families. The new service has been called in the debate we have had recently, and which was the last to start with a program in the NRK Focus. The debate on au pairs appears at regular intervals. I think it's very important just to put the spotlight on the aupair conditions that don't work. Then it is good that we have got this case here today, where we are just trying to do something about it. In this context, it is good to see that civil society is also in place here. What the Norwegian People's Aid and the Trade Union have organized, called the Au Pair Center, is doing a very good job of getting more propriety and cleanliness into the aupair system. In this context, we have also had visits and received recordings from Caritas and JURK, which show that there are more than Norwegian People's Aid and the Trade Union that are doing something here. It is clear that there is something about this system that is initially somewhat asymmetric, marked by different weights, and that can quickly lead to an abuse. It can be done, among other things: the whole stay is due to the functioning of the aupair service. If it doesn't work, you have to go out again. You live with the host family, and the economics are usually completely dependent on the host family being satisfied with what you do, etc. I have to say that some of the host family interviews you've heard in the last few months have scared me a little bit, because there are interviews that are very much influenced by the fact that we've developed a society with a relationship to work and family life that almost assumes that you're reorganizing a service in Norwegian society. If the aupair system is available to fill the need for someone – in the broad sense – to do housework for us, then it is difficult to say that this is primarily cultural exchange. Then there's no cultural exchange. Then it is simply a job that needs to be done, which we can no longer do within the core family. If there is a job in that sense, this should be paid, organised and subject to the legislation to which the rest of the working life must relate. There's nothing in the matter we're dealing with here today, which indicates that there's someone in Stortinget who wants it to evolve in that direction, but we've had recordings, among other things. from Civita, who has been thinking that it could be nice to get some immigrants here to us who go for quite such low wages – that perhaps you should not just have them fixed for the daily operation of the family, but also use them in the care of the elderly. I mean, it's kind of a bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit And if we can also get them at half price – to say it that way – then this is fascinating. Per Arne Olsen, from the Progress Party, discussed the same last year – the very same proposal – that our health and care labour needs could be addressed by developing the aupair systems. I sincerely hope we don't get there. At least then we can no longer say that this is primarily cultural exchange, because then the intention is to bring in the necessary labour force. In that case, it is not an aupair legislation to regulate this, but normal labour law. To finish: This is well - a bit cf. previous debate – in many ways the dreamer of the Progress Party: he or she is temporary, has to go out again and is underpaid.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e2997	The aim of the aupair scheme is to allow for international cultural and language exchanges at an interpersonal level by a youth living with a Norwegian family and in addition receiving language instruction. In return, the au pair contributes with defined services such as easier housework, childcare, etc. for limited time per day. The center party believes this is a good arrangement that we have to fence around. The scheme itself is well incorporated and relatively detailed, at the latest with provisions that entered into force in 2012. It is a good system for language and cultural exchange, and most people respect the legislation so that the scheme provides a win-win situation for the host family and for the au pair. Unfortunately, in some cases this has evolved into a regular exploitation of au pair as cheap, unskilled labour. They are in an extremely vulnerable situation because they both live and live with the employer – if you can call it that. The applicable law does not allow the adoption of administrative decisions against families which violate the conditions of aupair residence. The parties therefore support proposals for amendment to Section 27 of the Foreign Affairs Act. If a host family seriously or repeatedly violates the rules to protect the au pair conditions, a decision may be taken not to grant a residence permit to new au pairs of the family concerned. If the host family infringes the conditions, the Directorate of Foreign Affairs may decide to apply quarantine for one, two or five years. If a person in the host family has been in prison for more than three months for conditions committed against an au pair in that host family, a decision on quarantine may be taken for up to 10 years. Quarantine provisions aimed at host families could be preventive and a contribution to the protection of the fair use of the aupair system. One could prevent the use of illegal labour and prevent these homes from becoming an arena for forced labour and, in the worst cases, trafficking in human beings. As far as trafficking in human beings is concerned, this is, of course, covered by the current provisions of the penal code and will have to be prosecuted in the usual way, regardless of the context in which it has occurred. The Central Party agrees that a common Nordic regulatory framework in this area could in principle be desirable. However, the current situation does not make it appropriate, as neither Sweden nor Finland have provisions on quarantine. We therefore support the government's proposal that the Foreign Affairs Directorate should be able to take decisions on quarantine in order to prevent the granting of au pairs' residence permits in a family that has committed serious violations of the guidelines for host families or where family members have committed criminal offences against former au pairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3012	I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Ministry of Justice and Defence for taking up this matter and making constructive proposals on legislative changes which, hopefully, will provide greater protection for those who come here as au pairs. Unfortunately, there have been examples that au pairs have not been cared for in any way, that they have been exploited in the most serious way, and hopefully a regulation like this will help to improve the situation. I believe, however, that in the future we too must have a very close follow-up to this scheme, because if not even this helps, then I will ask questions about the whole scheme. The aim of the aupair scheme is to provide opportunities for international cultural and language exchanges at an interpersonal level by young people living with a Norwegian family. So in return, the au pair contributes with defined services such as easier housework and childcare for the family. Actually, this sounds very good and gives young people an opportunity to experience something completely new in life. But – as I said – the reason we are dealing with this matter is that the system has evolved in a direction that we do not want and where we have seen examples of people being exploited in the most serious way. We've got this video from organizations that know these people. Caritas, the Catholic Church's aid organization, and JURK have been mentioned, and we have had conversations with them. There is reason to be concerned when a scheme does not work as it should. The chairman of the committee, Aksel Hagen, was about this: that we might now see the drawing of a new service in Norway. I really hope that this is happening now, and what we're doing now is preventing such a development. The Christian People's Party is also involved in a joint comment with the Advance Party and the Right, where we see it as beneficial to strive for a common Nordic practice in this area. I see that the red-green parties – the government parties – actually also consider it appropriate to have a common Nordic legislation, but they therefore consider it not appropriate because neither Finland nor Sweden have provisions on quarantine. But what we really put in this note – at least what the Christian People's Party is putting in it – is that it must be possible to engage in dialogue with our Nordic colleagues and see if it is possible to achieve such a common Nordic legislation. I think it would be a strength for those who come here, and who in a way have the whole Nordic as a impact field. We might be able to agree on this in the long term. In any case, I think that such a dialogue might have led our Nordic friends in Sweden and Finland to see this as useful. At least the starting point is that we're now trying to do something about a scheme that hasn't worked, and then we're going to hope that these are the right steps. If not, we should – in my view – assess the whole system, and we should follow this closely in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3025	I am pleased that the Committee endorses the government's proposal to introduce a quarantine provision for host families who abuse the aupair system. The law on quarantine is one of several measures aimed at tightening up and strengthening the cultural aspect of, the aupair system and preventing au pairs from being exploited as cheap or illegal labour. The dependency ratio between an au pair and its host family allows au pairs to be particularly vulnerable to exploitation. The quarantine system may prevent abuse, prevent social dumping and contribute to preventing future infringements of the terms of the au pair residence permit of both the host family and other host families. And I agree with the representative, Becquerad, that we have to follow developments, and the impact of the changed frameworks of the scheme carefully. The possibility of quarantine could contribute to the protection of the rights of au pairs with regard to duties, living conditions and leisure time. In addition, the proposal could help prevent forced labour, trafficking in human beings and other criminal offences. The law establishing a quarantine system provides that a decision may be taken not to grant an au pair residence permit to a host family which has seriously or repeatedly breached au pair residence permit conditions. The quarantine may be valid for one, two or five years. Decisions may also be taken on the basis of penalties or special reactions imposed in respect of facts committed against an au pair. The quarantine may then be valid for up to 10 years. Host families that have abused the aupair system cannot thus get a new au pair during this period. When the amendment enters into force, it will not be possible to obtain an application for a residence permit to be au pair with a family subject to quarantine on grounds of abuse or punishment. This will make it safer to be au pair in Norway. The minority of the Committee has noted that it considers it beneficial to have equal rules in the Nordic region and that quarantine should automatically occur as a result of the conviction of certain criminal offences against the au pair, as in Denmark. I agree with the majority of the Committee that, in principle, common Nordic legislation is desirable in this area, but that it is not appropriate as it is today in the other Nordic countries. Neither Sweden nor Finland provides for quarantine. In Denmark, quarantine takes place automatically on the basis of a conviction, while in the case of quarantine, the alienation authority takes a decision when specific conditions are met. I think it is most appropriate to have the foreign authorities decide on the quarantine in all cases. Quarantine is an administrative response to which a decision should be attached. The host family then receives information about the decision and the possibility to complain about it if necessary. The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party have proposed that the responsibility of the employer for the payment of taxes be clarified in the legislative text and that this be followed by a response in line with what is otherwise proposed in the new provision on quarantine. This issue was raised in the consultation round. My assessment is that it is not appropriate to include the non-payment of taxes by the quarantine facility.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3045	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 18th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3059	At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no opportunity for a change of line. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3068	The government's proposal for changes to the law on public libraries is widely accepted by the Stortinget. Apart from the fact that the Christian People's Party is moving towards the repeal of Section 6 on cooperation between the public library and the school library, which I expect the Christian People's Party itself to explain, all parties will support the government's proposals. The right view is that the government's proposals are right to give greater flexibility and better adaptability. These changes are made in the extension of the treatment of St.meld. No 23 for 2008-2009, Library Knowledge Seminar, City of Meeting and Cultural Arenas in a digital time, and is in line with the intentions of the Stortinget in dealing with this Communication. The literature field is changing strongly in terms of dissemination, which the libraries will also notice. It is therefore important that the library sector is close to its audience, and is able to capture the changes that develop. The library is an important meeting place, which also needs to find its place and develop its tasks in the coming years. The interest of local politicians in this context will be important, not to say crucial, for the development of Library Norway. Through the proposals for amendments, the government is helping to emphasise this responsibility by giving greater room for local development in this area. With this, I join the government's proposal on behalf of the Committee, with the exception mentioned for the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3081	I would like to join the rapporteur's speech on the whole of what the committee recommends. There is a great deal of consensus, but I just want to briefly comment on one point related to § 6, where the KrF has a different position. Libraries are characterised by the transformation that the entire literature field is undergoing as a result of technological change, new opportunities and new challenges. Good libraries provide better readers, and better readers provide skills in the workplace. Higher participation in the labour market provides a more committed society, a better democracy. School libraries are the first meeting of many with the libraries and the world that can then open up in the field of literature. That's why the Christian People's Party is concerned that we ensure the competence of the school libraries and the opportunities that lie there, and we believe that the cooperation between the public library and the school library is very important in this way. I understand the objections, that it can be seen as detailed governing to impose such cooperation in the law, but I think the reality is that that paragraph has its function for the further development of the library sector, and in particular the school libraries. On this basis, the Christian People's Party chooses to vote to keep the old section 6, as indicated in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3090	Since the Left is not represented in the Committee, I would also like to make some comments. We will also vote in favour of the government's proposal, nor will we support the minority of the Christian People's Party. Libraries have an important function, not only as a cohesion of living conditions, but also as a democracy institution — and as a core element of public debate when it works well. If the Left had been given the opportunity to start over with such a law, we would probably have inserted this into a common cultural law that contained both museum, library and archive, in order to have the opportunity to see the legislation there in the context. It would also give substance to the cultural law implemented by the government, which is not so important in practice, other than as a symbol. But if we had incorporated our cultural laws into one law, one such law would have had more weight. In a digital everyday life, our libraries will now be in a raging development, and none of us know exactly where they will end. Then I think it's important to use the opportunity to maybe tear down some walls – between libraries and other institutions, but also between the different library types. I, who come from Oslo, know that an area lift for an area that needs it, namely the Tøjen. There's a people's library, and then you have a large science library attached to the natural sciences collections that are also on Tøen. My dream is that school library, public library and university library had been one library on Tøen. What a great opportunity you would have to both connect skills and give the kids an offer that maybe no one else has! And that's how I imagine we'll have to be able to tear down these barriers in the future. Similarly, librarians have a unique competence in finding out in the information society. See if we in the Left are very busy that the library should be free of charge, and that all the basic offers should be free of charge, I think we have to bet on such things as connecting the trade library – for example. for different occupational groups — towards libraries, such as: The homeopaths in Oslo can rent a library service from a library to build a trade library and follow up on professional debates. I think that's the kind of thing we need to bet on in the future. These are the development venues we have for the libraries in the future, and it's important to set a framework for that. So we're going to vote for the proposal as it stands from the government. But I think this is a very exciting field to follow on, and I think the point is to tear down shots and give action spaces to development – because none of us fully know what a library looks like in 30-40 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3105	The public libraries have a fundamentally important democratic function, and I am very pleased with the broad connection that the committee gives to the proposals for changes in the law on public libraries. The government's ambitions for the library sector were mentioned in the 2009 library message that was launched by the Stortinget. As a follow-up to the message, the government has come up with a bill to change the law on public libraries, and the goal is to facilitate robust, resilient public libraries so that all citizens in the country can get good library services. Digital developments — the increasing availability of knowledge and literature online — also mean that the role of libraries in society is changing. It is important that libraries fulfil their function both physically and digitally. The public libraries shall fulfil their democratic mandate digitally by making PCs available for free of charge and by using the librarian’s competence to systematise and filter the choice of data and information available digitally. The availability of e-books should be a natural part of the services of public libraries, and today it is a municipal responsibility. In addition, in the case of books from purchasing systems, the Culture Council has launched a pilot project in which different distribution solutions will provide an experience base on which it can be further developed in municipalities. Although books and literature are the core of a library, studies show that there are less than half of the users who borrow books from the library. This clearly shows how the role of libraries in society is changing. In many municipalities, libraries have developed to be meeting places in the community, meeting places that are experienced as both open and relevant to all. This important function suggests to the government that the law on public libraries also be reflected by the fact that the libraries as an independent meeting place and the venue for public conversation and debate are set out in the purpose paragraph. Although the current law only obliges the libraries to make books available free of charge, the public libraries have to a large extent also active dissemination. Now the government suggests that active dissemination is also highlighted in the purpose paragraph as a central task of a people's library. Professionally relevant competence is fundamental to good library services and forward-looking development. The government is proposing that further demands be made for a qualified librarian, and the regulatory work that will follow the legislative changes will require a qualified librarian to be audited. There has been a development in the type of education relevant to a librarian, and the training has changed from a given course of study to a composition of different professional combinations. In order to maintain the autonomy of the municipality, the government suggests that it is still possible to dissociate from the competence requirement if a qualified applicant does not submit. A regulation will lay down the conditions for exemption and the temporary derogation will be removed. It is important that the municipalities are committed to developing the one assigned to the position of librarian, from the outset, which would prevent the temporary exemption from being granted. The county councils are in the middle of a process of change in which municipal tasks are directed towards guidance and coordination. Today the library functions in the counties are organized very differently, and in the bill the government proposes an update of the law to reflect this. It is no longer natural for the county councils to be required to maintain the county library as their own organisation, and we propose to facilitate the development of the county's library tasks towards guidance and coordination. We still believe that it is important that the county council has library professional competence at the leadership level, and we maintain a claim to that effect. The directive on cooperation between public and school libraries will be removed. It is the individual who has responded. But the reason is that it is quite obvious that these two institutions should cooperate, but it is unnecessary to impose an organisational unit in one municipality to cooperate with another organisational unit in the same municipality. That's what I said they'd do. It is also a point that imposed the way it was designed, only applied to the public libraries and not to the school libraries. At the same time, we remove a number of can-destinations, i.e. tasks that the municipality and county councils are still free to do, and that will contribute to better library services, but that there is no requirement for them to do, and therefore it is not as natural for them to be mentioned in the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3131	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 19th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3145	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3154	The size is today invited to adopt changes to the Media Ownership Act. The Committee shall submit a split opinion on the matter. The majority are in favour of implementing the proposed amendments, while a minority consisting of the Right Party and the Progressive Party do not support the proposed amendment. I assume that representatives from these two parties will explain their views on this matter. It matters who owns the media, also in Norway. The Media Ownership Act is based on the fact that large parts of the public conversation and the exchange of views take place in the mass media. Monitoring of the dissemination of news therefore offers great opportunities to influence opinion. The majority emphasise that it is also important, for democratic reasons, that this influence should not be concentrated in one or a few actors. This is what forms the basis of the Media Ownership Act. For the majority, it is essential to stress that a key prerequisite for genuine freedom of expression is the diversity of free and independent mass media. Then we should be clear that the bill, as it is presented, is not based on the documented consequences of ownership concentration in today's media market. The law is primarily an insurance policy – a precautionary law – for a media future we know little about. We do not know what kind of owners of Norwegian media will get in the future, but what we know is that the greater the concentration of ownership we open to in Norway, the greater the consequences of any purchase. The government also believes that such a perspective provides the basis for the continued need for a separate law of media ownership. The majority support such a view. We all see that there is clearly a need to adapt the law to technological and market developments in the media sector. The electronic mass media, including the network and mobile services of newspapers and TV channels, are now central channels for the dissemination of news and societal debate in Norway. A law that does not include electronic channels will therefore be based on an out-of-date media image, and a law that does not equate electronic and traditional media use will give a misleading picture of ownership positions in the sector. The regulation of media ownership is one of several instruments in this area that work together to meet the overall objectives of freedom of expression and media pluralism. Media support is also a good tool to provide a financial basis for the diversity of media businesses in Norway. We record that the minority does not see such a relationship in their budgetary observations. They want to cut or remove the press support, and they will not support this amendment. In my opinion, the minority helps to tear away the foundation of the great media diversity that we are so lucky to have in Norway – but they do. For the majority, it is important to clarify that the Media Ownership Act, together with the Media Editorial Freedom Act, facilitates this diversity of media businesses to also act as truly independent sources of information and public voices. With the support of a majority in this Chamber, this proposal proposes several amendments to the Media Ownership Act. For time's sake, I don't have time to go into the details, except to refer to the committee's recommendation. However, it is worth noting that the changes involve a shift to a more flexible regulatory model by leaving more of the more detailed regulation to regulation. In retrospect, we have recorded a debate on whether it is contrary to Section 100 of the Constitution that the government’s media supervision is proposed to have a combined role – usually both the donor and the supervisory authority. In doing so, the Committee has received an investigation from Schibsted ASA which concludes that the government's proposal is contrary to the Basic Law § 100. This investigation has been under assessment at the Legal Department of the Ministry of Justice, which concludes that the bill does not conflict with Section 100 of the Constitution. The majority also note that according to the Law Department’s assessments, the legislative proposal cannot be criticised as left-hand work – as some have suggested – and therefore supports the government’s legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3186	The government's proposal for a new Media Ownership Act leaves to the Media Authority to establish rules in very key areas. We believe that this is unfortunate, but we believe that it may also be the basis for a breach of the Constitution. Like the rapporteur, we have recorded the interesting debate that has taken place in public space on whether this is contrary to freedom of expression. There have been many legal actors who have expressed their opinion, both in Norway and internationally, and they conclude that there is a breach of Section 100 of the Basic Law, which thus demands that the intervention in freedom of expression be done by law, which limits the delegation's right to vote. I think that's quite interesting, and when the case rapporteur pushes the Department of Justice's law department in front of him as a witness to the truth that it's legal, I think there's reason to reflect a little on what the Department of Justice has done in the past. Previously, the Ministry of Justice and the Law Department said that the Law on the Information Society's Fund was not contrary to the Basic Law § 106. There has been a debate in this Chamber. Many felt that this was contrary to the Constitution, and the Supreme Court also found out in plenary that Stortinget’s decision was contrary to the Constitution. It happened in 2010. I would also like to remind you of the decision on the shipping tax, which was an important political matter for the government, where the majority of the government parties in the head depended on the assessment made by the Ministry of Justice's law department. Also in this case, the Supreme Court found out that the Stortinget had taken a decision that was contrary to the Constitution. Finally, it is only to point out that the decision of the Storting to extend the criminal basis for war crimes with retroactive effect was also found unconstitutional by the Supreme Court. So I think you should be very careful, and maybe also a little humble, when you push the Justice Department and the Law Department in front of you as a witness to the truth that this is fully possible. I think you're going to assume that this has come up with some very sharp objections, and that you're not just assessing whether this is a violation of the Constitution, but that it is. That is also why the Advance Party, together with the Right, is promoting a proposal that the matter be sent back to the government. We are so disappointed that the Christian People's Party did not agree with that proposal and that remark, but let me quote what you can read in today's VG: ‘The KrF’s husband is with the majority, but the party leader Knut Arild Hareide has gone a long way in ensuring that this issue will not stand in the way of bourgeois government cooperation.’ That is what today's VG says about the law we are debating here. It's a nice signal to get from the Christian People's Party, but I also hope that the Christian People's Party in the future can actually say what they mean in this room, and not make any decisions and decisions in the back. At least it is not a strategy we in the Progress Party want to follow in the future. That is the basis for us wanting to send this law back. As far as the law itself is concerned, it is clear that with the technological development you have – you can see the speed of the media world – we, together with many others, have probably concluded that the entire media ownership law is an immature tool and that the Competition Authority can take care of that piece. If you then have to change the law of the Competition Authority, you will have to assess when that time comes. Finally, I take up the two proposals from the Progress Party and the Right that are in the vote. We don't want to be invited to join and break the Constitution, and that's why we want to vote against the law. Subsidiously, we vote in favour of the proposals of the Christian People's Party – if our two proposals against all presumptions were to be defeated.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3213	The representative of Øyvind Korsberg has taken up the suggestions to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3216	It is my weight to come after Korsberg continually. Then the microphone is so high up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3221	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3224	The proposed legislation on changes to the Media Ownership Act delegates considerable power to the Media Regulatory Authority. It is a matter of defining regional markets and it is a matter of allowing the Media Authority, where necessary, to define a separate market for electronic media. It has been claimed from a very competent team – which has also been included in previous articles – that this is contrary to the requirements of Basic Law § 100, which states that an intervention in freedom of expression is to be done by law. This means that it should be highlighted, discussed and dealt with in this room – not in any supervision, including media surveillance, bureaucracies. For me, these are not just legal specialities and a legal-theoretical debate. For me, this is extremely practical and of great importance to my and the Right's position on the framework of freedom of expression and who should be able to introduce legislation to regulate the framework for this. That is why the Right is behind the proposal to send the matter back to the government. We simply believe that this is such a big and fundamental question about the very serious issue of freedom of expression. It requires more thorough treatment than we have experienced in this case. Furthermore, the Right's starting point is that the government in connection with this proposal may not have asked the most important question: do we need this law at all? If we've been in doubt before, we're absolutely certain now: there's obviously time for the scrapping of the Media Ownership Act. The main concerns of the right in the media policy are to contribute to the dissemination of Norwegian publishing traditions. There are publishing traditions, characterised by good journalism, qualitatively good editorials, news production, coverage of political substance and societal debate. If we are to be able to pass on these themes, we need a robust economy in the media companies, which are carriers of these traditions. These are enterprises that are challenged not only by foreign media but perhaps primarily by websites that eat into their income without producing editorial content. The experience with the Media Ownership Act is so far that it has had quite varying success in regulating what it was set up. Apart from a few honourable exceptions, matters have been small and insignificant, while the real large, demanding changes in ownership have actually been quite successful, or have had to be subject to regulations that have neither met industrial needs nor had particular importance for media pluralism. The extensive tasks now delegated to the Media Regulators will unduly require a high level of effort at work. We ask questions about the perspective we have that the law will be appropriate in a digital setting how close all areas become more flexible. The method of media supervision is to measure publications and percentages. It's a little connected to today's challenges. It also gives the proposition the impression in the sense that it is put into a more flexible system. But it's still about counting copies. We want to abolish the ownership law. We believe that the Competition Act will meet the needs we have. Relatively simple devices can help ensure that competition supervision can fulfil the tasks of the Media Regulatory Authority. From this point of view, the proposals on which the Right is based have been addressed. But we also want the proposals of the Christian People's Party to be subsidiary.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3245	Then it's registered. The representative, Olemic Thommess, has addressed the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3248	Today, we are dealing with changes to the Media Ownership Act. It is an important law – a law to ensure that the public access to a real diversity of news, information and opinions – and, on the one hand, to safeguard against ownership positions that can be exploited to promote their own political or economic interests. Clearly, the Right Party and the Advance Party do not agree. They believe that the Media Ownership Act should be repealed. They believe – as we heard – that it is so duplicated by the Competition Act that there is no need for it. We in the Centre Party and the other red-green parties believe, on the contrary, that there is a great need for this law. We believe that in order to achieve the objectives that we have of a diverse press and a great deal of news and information, it is vital that we keep the Media Ownership Act. Schibsted has delivered a hearing opinion where they believe that this bill is contrary to the Basic Law § 100, which we heard. This question has been carefully assessed by the Ministry of Culture. In addition, they have obtained an assessment from the Legal Department of the Ministry of Justice and Defence, which has some of the country’s best competence in the field. It is gratifying that the Law Department concludes that the proposal does not conflict with the Basic Law § 100. We see no need to go further with the question that the Progress Party and the Right demand in one of the proposals they put forward. I have to say that it is a little strange that the Progress Party and the Right still suspect that this is contrary to the Constitution, even though the representative of Korsberg could refer to the fact that a few questions had been made in the past. It could have been tempting to ask if the two parties believe they have better lawyers than the Department of Justice. Several hearing bodies have been sceptical about regulating ownership of electronic media in the law and of the Ministry’s proposal on the delimitation of the scope of electronic media. The centre party is pleased that both our Red-Green and Christian People's Party agree that ownership in electronic media should be regulated. But it's true that it's only those of these media that today have the same purpose and function as the traditional mass media, which are to be regulated by the law in this round. Then we see that a lot is happening within the media world with new electronic media and ways of communicating with readers, listeners or viewers. We also see that a large part of the younger garden reads paper newspapers to a small extent, if they do not find it at home with a’mother or n’father, or it is at work or at school. On the other hand, they consume news through electronic media. Some of the electronic media are covered by this law — others are not. But here there's a rapid development that we can't see the contours of 10-20 years ahead in time. Therefore, it is likely that legislation will have to be amended in the years to come, and we are pleased that the law will open it up. The central party believes that national ownership should be restricted to the new law, as proposed by the government. It shall ensure a minimum of three independent national actors of importance in each of the different media markets. It is also important for us that the national ownership limit in terms of monomedia ownership cannot be changed by the Media Regulatory Authority in regulation, but requires a new treatment. In our view, regional ownership cannot be secured by more actors through a national border of ownership. The centre party believes it would be totally unsustainable if an actor, for example. is going to own all the locals in Trøndelag. Such a situation is a local democratic problem and does not ensure the diversity of different information and opinions that we want to be communicated through the press. We therefore fully agree that ownership should also be regulated at regional level. As the Center Party sees it today, there is no need to regulate media other than the daily press at regional level, but we see that there may be a need to extend it in the long term, and are happy that it opens up to it. The Central Party believes that the new Media Ownership Act will ensure a diverse and good press at both national and regional level. However, we see that the media and the media are changing rapidly, and it will be necessary to keep an eye on developments in the years to come in order to adjust the regulations or to go in and change the law if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3280	The Media Ownership Act shall ensure the diversity of public opinions and information. It shall also safeguard against ownership positions that can be exploited to promote the political or economic agendas of its own. There is a rapid technological development in the industry through an increasing – let's call it globalisation – that changes the conditions for Norwegian media houses. I would therefore like to say that the Christian People's Party has used this opportunity as the proposition, to make a thorough assessment and review of the status of the Media Ownership Act and the need for such a law. It seems clear to the Christian People's Party that, despite the developments we all see, there is no doubt that in Norway today the established media houses still play a very central role, both in the field of news communication and in setting the agenda for the public conversation. By doing so, the media houses are doing an important job. Nevertheless, focusing on the risk of power concentration in the media industry is important. The Christian People's Party has therefore come to the conclusion that it is still right to have a media ownership law, and we support the proposal to maintain the 33rd pst limit as a starting point at national level in each of the national markets. It is also central to achieving the objective of minimum three independent actors of importance in the various media markets. The majority of the Committee has emphasised that this implies that regulation is managed in a way that ensures real independence between the various actors. I would like to join with the representative Thommessen's reflections on how the media policy as a whole supports the objectives of diversity, even if we disagree with the conclusion on the law. It is important to stress that it is the whole of the media policy instruments that together must provide the basis for continued diversity in Norwegian media. It is about how we manage and regulate the media support system. This is not least the great need to introduce a platform-neutral low value added tax, which can ensure further innovation and development in a digital reality. Several have discussed the relationship between the government’s bill and the Constitutional Act § 100. The Christian People's Party relies on the judgments of the Department of Justice. We consider it reasonable to assume that the proposals do not conflict with the Constitution. That's the legal part of the discussion. Nevertheless, we should ask: What is appropriate in the relationship between regulation in law and delegation to the Media Authority? What is appropriate to ensure predictability of actors? What is appropriate in order to ensure the necessary foreseeable framework conditions for the operators to operate in those establishments? The proposition illustrates that the new reality makes it more complicated to regulate the ownership of media markets. The proposition illustrates very clearly that once you start regulating regional markets, this becomes even more complicated. I am addressing the proposals of the Christian People's Party, and through our proposal we will remove the regional limits of ownership. We will eliminate a significant part of the challenges identified by delegating to the Media Regulatory Board in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3294	The representative of Øyvind Hope has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3297	In my memory, I think it's been seven years since I told Minister Trond Giske at the time that he had to start working with a new media ownership law, because the structure of new digital media gave us completely new challenges in regulating the market. There are two things I'm actually a little disappointed in. One is that it's taken so long. Once it has taken so long, I think you may not have used the time so well. I don't think you've taken over all the changes we've seen in media policy. This area is one of the major areas where we've spent a lot of time in the program process in the left. We have looked at the means to ensure the breadth and freedom of expression in a new media everyday. We have fallen on the proposal that the Right and the Advance Party have presented here today – that the best way to regulate it in a new media everyday is to use the Competition Act. But then it is probably necessary to adapt the Competition Act to that task. So I am very pleased with the wise wording contained in proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox The left will support it. You have to use the law actively in order to have such supervision. Then the Left will also support proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox Our reason for this is that no matter how you turn around and turn around on the letters and investigations you have received, this is perceived as very unexplained jus. I have more questions than answers after reading what is ahead of us. We cannot go into an area as important as our freedom of speech paragraphs. That is why we will also vote in favour of proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox I think it's scary that you delegate so much competence down the system. I don't know if 'fight' is a parliamentary expression, but I can say that I don't think it's very brave of a government to find out that the best way to manage this is to delegate it to some far below sea level, so you don't have to be held responsible for it. We will also take the opportunity – if possible in the voting order – to vote subsidiaryly for the proposal of the Christian People's Party. There will be major changes in this area in the future. This whole policy area is going to change, and we are going to give good framework conditions for development and expression. I think it is desirable to have large Norwegian owners on the owner's page within the media. That's what I think is a point in itself, so I don't fully agree with the representative Thommes' statements in the newspaper today. I think we need a diversity of ownership, and diversity should primarily facilitate debate, expression and quality. I believe that this can be done within the framework of competition law. You have waited so long for a law – you have waited so long that it is not really up to date anymore.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3310	Mass media are the most important arenas we have for wide news coverage and political debate. It was thoroughly documented in the latest power formation. It also means that control of the media gives potentially great power, a power that can become a democratic problem, if it is abused. The Media Ownership Act is therefore an important democratic security mechanism. At the same time, it is necessary to ensure that the law adapts to changes in the media landscape. The government has therefore proposed to extend the law to include rules on ownership in electronic media. Otherwise, the most important change is a conversion to a more flexible control model, by leaving the closer regulation to regulations. The idea is that this will give a more accurate regulation, and therefore that any intervention is better grounded and better cared for the purpose of the law. The law is controversial – something else may not be waiting. He puts serious obstacles in the way of the potential of the major media players to expand through acquisitions and mergers. It is obvious that the law is a tower aside for part of the players in the industry. As legislators, it is important that one is aware that the Media Ownership Act does not exist for the sake of the industry – the law should ensure media failure and freedom of expression for citizens, including through times of major structural changes for the media sector. It is also important to remember that those for whom the law is applicable do not have the same voice and resources as the major industry players have. In this context, it is natural to comment on the debate during the last weeks on the relationship with Section 100 of the Constitution. Schibsted has been produced with a report that concludes that the proposal is contrary to the Constitution, primarily because the Constitution sets strict limits on the relationship to the delegation of legislative authority in the areas of freedom of expression. With all due respect for the prominent lawyers behind the report, I think it's a derailment of the debate. The relationship with the Basic Law § 100 has been assessed on several occasions, both by the department itself and by the expert group who has taken out the basis for the government's proposal for changes in the law. However, on the basis of a request from the Committee on the subject, it seemed reasonable to ask the Ministry of Justice's Legal Affairs Department for an additional assessment of this issue. The Legal Department clearly concludes that the proposal for changes to the Media Ownership Act does not conflict with the Constitution. It's not surprising. I think that there should clear up all doubts in the matter, and that there should now be no obstacle to the adoption of the government's proposal for changes to the law. The Right Party and the Progress Party wish to leave the ownership of the media area to universal competition law, with some additions to the Competition Act as appropriate. I think this is going to be wrong, for a simple reason: mass media publishing is something far more than just business. In addition, the mass media has an important democratic role in society by being a central public arena for news communication and political societal debate. In contrast to the Competition Act, which aims to ensure efficient use of resources, the Media Ownership Act shall ensure media failure and freedom of expression. There is a wide range of considerations, and the results of these assessments may also be different. This is something that many countries in Europe have realised, and there are also very many who have rules on media ownership in one form or another. What all of these have in common is that they have concluded that competition law alone is not sufficient in the media field, whether it be the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Spain, Belgium or Austria. That's why we're not alone. So I want to comment on a couple of points in the present bill that have been particularly controversial. It applies for the first time to define its scope of action in relation to electronic media, and for the second, to the need for regulation of ownership at regional level. When it comes to electronic media, some professionals have taken the word for either – or – approximation. So either network and mobile media should not be covered by the law at all, or all such media should include, i.e. also social media and search engines, including actors such as Facebook, Google and Twitter. Either way, the result would be the same thing. One would ensure that the Media Ownership Act would not have any practical significance in this area. I think that if you have ambitions to adapt the law to today's media reality, we must at least make sure that he will apply to the most important dissemination platforms. When it comes to ownership regulation at regional level, the question arises: is it possible to ensure the necessary ownership failure with national borders alone? I think the answer is no. One example that we use in the proposition is that an actor – in theory – will be able to own all the localities in all of North Norway, Trondelag and Westland north of Stavanger without crossing the border on one third of any national market.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3341	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3344	The Council of State showed, of course, in their contribution to the Ministry of Justice, the Department of Law, and the job they have done. But at the same time, the Council of State has probably recorded that there is a different view of whether this is a breach of the Constitution. Several independent environments have pointed out that this is contrary to the Constitution. Then I am a little impressed that the Council of State may be so sloppy in its argumentation, especially given that the work in the Law Department has led to the Stortinget's three adoptions of constitutional changes. On that basis, how can the Council of State be so sure of its argument, since the Law Department has bombed a number of times earlier – and has not argued against the last recital that has come from Schibsted, which stood in Today's Business on 12 June this year?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3349	It is correct that I referred to the Law Department's assessment of this. In addition, I showed that the department itself has made the same assessment. It also has the expert group which has worked out the basis for the government's proposal in the area of media ownership. I note that all three of these statements and approaches to this issue also conclude. That gives a very clear indication that that conclusion is correct. I also register that the Ministry of Justice's law department writes in their opinion that they believe it is clear that this has not been too bad done, as some have claimed. The sum of this means that at least I feel relatively confident that it is right to present this media ownership law.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3356	I wonder if the Council of State agrees with me that the key prerequisite for continuing Norwegian publishing traditions – with all the positive things that I think we agree with – is to ensure that Norwegian media companies have a good future in Norway, and that they carry on these traditions into a digital age. Then we see that the law we are now discussing includes, first and foremost, them – and limits these businesses. At the same time, we see that the income base that is most important to them, and the most demanding for them, namely the revenue on a digital platform, is very much challenged by websites or sites that do not have editorial content. Is it a problem that worries the Council of State? What does she think about this by getting a one-sided constraint in the media companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3361	Actually, the answer is yes and no. The answer is no in the sense that I mean that the pages to which the representative Thommessen refers, pages with non- editorial content – I guess he refers, for example. to social media and search engines – different from the editorial media at the central level, namely that they do not have an editorial office, and that they do not in the same way as the editor-directed media, which have an editorial office, are a center of news production or news dissemination. It's one of our assessments when we've defined the media ownership law as we've done. They're so different from each other that it's natural to draw this limit rise. However, when I say yes, to a certain extent, it's about when it applies, for example. Note, it is clear that a competitor is competing with the social media. When it comes to ads, one competes to some extent with the social media. But here we have also taken it up by signaling in the proposition that on regional media markets there will be some liberalisation. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3368	I'm going to give the council the opportunity to continue, because I'm going to follow up the question. I'm thinking, for example. on FINN.no, I think about yr.no, I think about different types of places that in themselves do not produce - in this context - editorially relevant content, i.e., politics and opinion development, but that eat quite a lot of revenue, and that represents a significant challenge for the media houses, in a period when they themselves strive to get revenue in place. Until today, you have made money on the paper paper, and then you really haven't made a lot of money on the netpaper. Now you start paying for the online newspaper, but it's hard to get started. There has been no special contribution from the government, e.g. by limiting the radius of the NRK. The law that we're talking about now will be one-sided for those who produce editorials. All the others, including the big ones that roll into this area, are dropping away.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3375	The Media Ownership Act is not designed to give the most players the most possible nutritional possibilities, to put it that way. The Media Ownership Act is fundamentally about ensuring media pluralism and preventing potential abuse of power. What I want to say is that, for example. FINN.no is bad enough to use it as a platform to communicate something politically or ideologically. The same applies to a number of others, whether they're search engines or social media. This means that the need to regulate them in a media ownership law is – to put it mildly – very limited. This principle difference is the reason why we do this constraint, as we do.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3383	So the chord change is over. The speakers who have the floor hereafter shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3388	Many hearing bodies believe that it is time to abolish the Media Ownership Act and to keep only the Competition Act. These points of view have also been adopted by the dark blue comrades Right and Advance Party. The two-part-sessions in today's committee posts once again make clear what we have in store for a change of government, including in the media field: cut off the press support, a NRK wing clip and free front for foreign owners, to mention some – as the representative Thommessen put it today. The representatives of the dark blues confirm once again their belief that if market forces are allowed to play, it will not go beyond neither the media offer nor the media diversity in this country. I don't share such faith in market forces. In my view, they choose to challenge freedom of expression and media pluralism when they openly put the store ahead of politics. Of course, their message to Medie-Norway is out in the districts and no. The 2 newspapers in the big cities. Another example, which was also addressed by the Council of State, is the challenge of both media ownership and speech diversity when one does not want regional regulation. For my part of the country, for example. one owner may be able to own all major newspapers outside the central districts. I don't think it's a safe media future when we can risk something like that. They think it's completely unproblematic, but fortunately, the majority in this room don't share such a point of view. Unlike the dark blues, the majority is clear that we are behind the purpose of the Media Ownership Act to promote freedom of expression and to provide real opportunities for expression and a comprehensive media offer. The Media Ownership Act protects important democratic values that are difficult to define by purely economic concepts, as stated by the Competition Act. It is worth noting these differences between a minority who want market forces to govern policies and a majority who believe that policies can influence market forces, in order to ensure, inter alia, that they do. media-diversity. This case is a good example of just that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3399	Only a few comments on the statements made by both the Council of State and the representative of Simensen: It works on Simensen as if he thinks the Right kind of just wants to let it all go. It's not like that. We think this should be regulated by the Competition Act. Competition supervision is absolutely something to push on if you are afraid that the regulations will not be tough enough. And then it's not like that, as the Council of State was about, that most people out there in the world have found out that it's wise to stick to a media ownership law. Most countries do not have a media ownership law; they are based on competition law in their countries, for example. Our neighbouring countries Sweden and Denmark, and in and on their own the Netherlands, do so. I don't think those countries have any big problems, at least it hasn't moved me that these have a problem that's bigger than ours, at least in terms of ownership. In fact, despite the fact that we have had ownership laws that have been quite strict, this has not prevented us from establishing quite large ownership. It is not that this law has worked in a way that has made us have – let's say – the great flora of actors. One important aspect of it is that it is uncertain how to make money in the future. When Schibsted was ordered to sell his shares in Polaris, it turned out that it was not so easy to get rid of them – no buyer was ready. It is simply linked to the fact that the profitability of many of the major media companies is uncertain. The crucial thing now – that’s what I tried to get into the line change with the Council of State – is to help us get a profit from the media companies that ensures the robust economy that is going to do to pay large, competent editorials. There is considerable expenditure, and it becomes too easy when the Council of State says that FINN.no should not be regulated, but it is necessary to regulate those who produce editorial content. That's just the point. I don't mean to regulate FINN.no – no one had thought – but I think it's important to make sure that those who produce editorial content don't get a disadvantage compared to those they compete with in terms of income. And there we have to bear in mind that robust economy is linked to good industrial development, and in turn it is very much about good ownership and moving in ownership between the different owners. It is the Competition Authority that is best placed to assess.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3410	FINN.no was an example that the representative himself used, and then it was natural for me also to pick it up. When it comes to Thommes' reasoning that not all countries have these kinds of regulations, of course, he is quite right in it. Not all countries have this kind of regulation, but there are many that have it, among others. United Kingdom, France, Germany, Spain, Belgium and Austria. I can also note that the Council of Europe's Ministerial Committee, in a 2007 declaration, concluded that a regulation that only promotes competitiveness and market efficiency can lead to a lack of sufficient independent channels and public voting. Recently, the Leveson report in the United Kingdom also concluded that there is a need for other and stricter media ownership rules than those resulting from general competition law. In other words, it's not something that we in Norway are all about to mean. The representative Thommessen also refers to our neighbouring country Sweden and Denmark. It is quite correct that they do not have a media ownership law, but they stress the importance of ownership failure, for example. the award of broadcasting concessions, and it shows that in Sweden and Denmark, too, ownership defaults are an important value, which cannot be fully secured by competition law.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3419	The representative Kåre Simensen is the rapporteur on the matter and thus still has 3 minutes of speaking time. The president assumes that it's scarce to remember that we have a long night ahead of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3424	I'll promise to be very short. I have a small comment to make to the representative Thommess, who referred to what other countries in Europe are doing, and that they are dealing with a competition law. Unfortunately, Thommes forgot to mention perhaps the most important thing: these countries have also not been able to maintain the media diversity that we in Norway have done through our media policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3431	The President thought it was exemplary – it was shorter than what had been allocated. The representative Olemic Thommess has had the word twice and thus gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3436	It is not that we think that if the Media Ownership Act is removed, no action should be taken on competition law or competition authorities. We believe that competition authorities in any case look for media pluralism, i.e. a lack of opinion, when they do their work related to competition law. We think that it can be strengthened with simple grips, and that the Competition Authority can also be strengthened with regard to that issue, to look after it. Thus, we believe that this will be taken care of in a more flexible way, and I think quite certainly cheaper, way, compared to what the media surveillance will eventually cost, if it is really going to carry out the tasks it is now assigned to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3441	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 20. At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 21 and 22 are treated together. – It is deemed to have been adopted
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3465	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3472	In the Document 8 proposal from the Progress Party on a modernised book market, the government is asked to terminate the book agreement scheme. When we have proposals for book law at the same time, the system is replaced by a book or industry agreement, but the exemption from the competition law for book business is continued. The Progress Party does not want this, while the Right and Christian People's Party wants to continue today's system with an industry agreement. I guess the minorities explain their views in their own articles. Government parties now welcome book law in Norway. This is a day of joy. It's been a long time since the work on book law started, and finally we're in port. Norwegian literature policy has been a success, where the industry agreement has been essential. Now replacing it with a mandatory law will create predictability in the industry. It will ensure a long-term work on breadth, quality, diversity and accessibility in Norwegian literature – precisely what is the main objective of literature policy – as well as on the preservation and further development of Norwegian languages, to the delight of readers and authors. The proposal for book law is based on a balance between competition considerations and cultural policy considerations. Literature is simply too important to be left to the market alone. One important element of the book law is fixed prices – i.e. obligations for suppliers to set a binding price on new books. This does not mean that the price has to be set high, as some opponents of fixed prices like to claim, but one does not have the opportunity to dump the prices of a small sample of best sellers. The literature in Norway should be a much more diverse literature than it will be if only the market regulates the situation. Today, publishers can bet on narrower literature because these publications are funded by the sale of the literature. If it's only profitable to produce books one knows will sell well, it'll be as good as impossible for the new voices, debutants and the new writing modes. If we want new writers, someone has to dare bet on the unknown. Today's best-selling writers have also been insecure short once. To put it that way, the words of Tom Egeland: «Norwegian literature policy has helped to grow them up to popular-loved authors». This was a reference to e.g. Petterson, Saabye Christensen and Wassmo. Both for readers and authors, the fixed-price system is therefore important – for the income of authors and the ability to reach readers. The proposal also lays down provisions allowing suppliers, authors and translators to cooperate on normal contracts. Without these, each writer and translator is left to himself in the negotiations with the publishers, which naturally will be difficult for new authors and writers of narrow books. Literature is not a common commodity. We want a variety of books from a variety of writers in different songs. We want a book business that can afford to take chances, bet on something new and unknown, and experimental literature. This will hardly survive on the free market. The Progress Party is largely opposed to literature policy instruments and has a fierce belief in the excellence of the market, and competition will ensure diversity also in the book industry. If we take a quick comparison between countries, we see that Norway publishes more titles and sells more books than in our neighbouring countries, and we see that a trend with decreasing numbers of bookstores is more evident in free-price countries than in bookstore countries. If we are to ensure good quality books, at the same price throughout the country, we must have good literature policy tools. The right and Christian People's Party supports the instruments, but wants to continue with a voluntary trade agreement instead of introducing a book law. In no way has it been possible for one to get into port with a possible new agreement – and since 2005, we have seen a flourishing of publishers outside the industry agreement and who are not bound by the fixed-price scheme either. The inclusion of cultural policy instruments should not be voluntary. In the form of law it is the legislator who has the control of the instruments, not the industry itself. I am pleased that the book is covered by the Book Act. It ensures a breadth and diversity in both large and small subjects, which is essential for developing Norwegian as an academic language. There have been major changes in the book industry in recent years, and developments are continuing. Therefore, an evaluation of the e-book market is provided after three years. Similarly, an evaluation of the impact of the margin regulation between suppliers and dealers will also be carried out in the light of the input we have received in consultations. I think this is a good piece of legislation we have to deal with. Through this and other literature policy instruments, such as: purchasing system, production support and grant and remuneration schemes for authors – we ensure that the population across the country has access to a wide range of quality literature from a variety of authors, themes and genres.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3498	The red-green cultural vows had the ambition to make Norway a major European cultural nation. This was strongly inspired, among other things. by French cultural policy, and not least by the French Socialist Minister for Culture, Jack Lang, who built a strong cultural policy in France in the 1980s. One of the most important grips of Jack Lang was that in 1982 he introduced a book law in France. This was to feed the French language, and ensure a great diversity in the publishing of French books. By deciding on book laws this evening, we are doing, like the major cultural nations in Europe – as Germany, France, Italy and Spain have done before us – to give literature their own law. They did it not least to ensure their own language. A small nation with a small language like the Norwegian language should at least do so. In 2008, Minister of Culture Trond Giske presented the first language message of over 30 years: St.meld. No 35 for 2007-2008, Objective and meaning. In that communication, he aimed to ensure the status of the Norwegian language, and that it would be used in all areas of society. Not least, it was emphasised that the importance of the technical language for Norwegian had to continue, and developed as a social and full language. The notification at the time considered the fixed price scheme to be very important to ensure the Norwegian technical language, and one of the key elements of the Book Act is that the professional language is included. In its press release of 26 April, the Norwegian language is highlighted. That was the day the government presented proposals for book law. The author's association determines the importance of book law and fixed prices to ensure the Norwegian language. I quote: ‘Today, the Government of the Council of State has taken steps to promote a proposal for a Norwegian book law for the Stortinget. A book law does not cover all aspects of Norwegian society as a constitution does, yet it takes into account one of the most important prerequisites for our democracy, namely the language. It sets out the framework for how to develop the language and create the literature in the future. The bill is inspired by book laws in other European countries. It has many common features with these, but it is not a blueprint, it is adapted to Norwegian circumstances.’ The alternative to today's book law and fixed price is free price. The working party and the red-greens are not against cheap books – nine out of ten books in the bookstore are actually free-of-charge – but what we are even more for is width and not just best sellers. Good literature policy is not identical with large piles of the same book. Good literature policy is also not identical to the fact that the bookstores look like a Lidl store. Good literature policy is characterised by the publication of many authorships — both unknown authors, young people, new and best sellers. The fact that we have the opportunity to publish both Crimea, Poet Collection, Prosecution and Sense Literature is proof of whether we have a good literature policy. Why, then, are we sure that the free price will weaken diversity and distribution to the readers? Yes, we have experience in free pristine countries like Sweden and Denmark. In Sweden, half of the titles are published in relation to the population as many as in Norway, and in recent years, the number of titles has decreased. Denmark received a free price in 2011. With that is the number of releases, among others. at the Publications Office of the European Communities, reduced by one-third. The situation is the opposite in Norway, where we have a fixed price system — in sharp contrast to our neighbouring countries. People in Norway read and buy more books than ever. The number of titles issued has increased in recent years — between 2005 and 2010 by 14 pst. The only guarantee that the Norwegian boxing success can continue is that we still get a red-green government. The Progress Party is against a book law, against author grants, against purchasing schemes. What the other parts are for, we're a little bit uncertain about. Whether they're for fixed-price systems or not, we're not sure. But at least what we're sure of is that the only guarantee that we get a good literature policy in the years to come is that we keep a red-green government after the harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3518	Today, the Norwegian book market is regulated by a book agreement. Now it's going to be replaced by a law. The book market is large and is the country's largest cultural market. Here it has to be governed, and here we have to have political objectives. It shall be governed by new legislative paragraphs and by solutions that are complex and challenging. We have no faith in such a solution. Now those who sell cheap books become criminals. Sweden received a free price in 1970. They removed the fixed price. Who did it? Yes, Olof Palme did. He was predictable. As I see it, Sweden is not a poor country of culture, on the contrary. They also have a lot of good writers. The Competition Authority has been skeptical of the new law. They have consumers in mind. There are several cultural policy desires sought through the new Book Act. Among these wishes are, among other things, the following: a regional policy consideration relating to a decentralised bookstore network. What tools do you have to get a bookstore in each municipality? The bookstore is also dependent on making money. You cannot sit in Stortinget and decide to have a bookstore in every municipality. This desire is not defined as regards the size of user groups or the demand for literature in each municipality. Municipalities cannot be sure about all municipalities getting a bookstore – I am absolutely sure of that. No one here in Stortinget can guarantee it. Over the years, the book industry has become increasingly concentrated on a few actors. However, no actor has been given exclusive dominance, but the concentration must be an increasing problem, as it is the publishers who manage the pricing of books to the end-user. At the same time as there has been a concentration on fewer operators on the publishing side, publishers have also started to buy up large in the bookstore industry. Thus, they negotiate with themselves in practice, and the trends in concentration on the owner’s side of the book industry correspond to developments in other media. Owner concentration may threaten diversity and independence, partly by direct influence. I believe that competition guarantees consumers diversity and the ability to choose for themselves, as it is in all other sectors. As I see it, it would be mammoth prices all year round – not only when the book industry itself believes it should sell cheaply. The principle of competition ensures the interest of both narrow and broad groups. The new law is intended to provide framework conditions that ensure high quality and rich diversity in Norwegian literature. How can you sit here in Stortinget and guarantee high quality books that are published? How can you sit here in the Storting and guarantee that there will be a diversity by introducing a law? You can't. The book industry here in the country fears that literature will suffer from liberalisation. Who doesn't want competition? Everyone who runs the business, and everyone who runs the business in the book industry, doesn't want competition, I understand. Through market analyses from the Danish bookstores’ association, one cannot see that liberalisation has led to poorer literature or a narrowing of diversity. Cheap sales of bestsellers in Denmark have led to more readers reading books – more people can afford to read books. It must also be important. Another challenge facing the book market today is the potential of technological development. If you have the Norwegian language in mind, which I understand the representative from the red-greens has: it is not a charge on e-books, VAT, when you download foreign books – books in English – a lot. Nevertheless, we must maintain VAT and not have competition in e-books. Then it won't be credible when you talk about having the Norwegian language in mind. The new law gives you a universal obligation. Then it turns out that Apple and Amazon are getting stronger. What do you do with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3544	The President shall assume that the representative shall make proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3547	The President is absolutely right about that. I refer to the proposal that the Progress Party has on its own, and to the proposals that the Progress Party has with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3554	The representative Ib Thomsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3557	In the transition to digital communication, the book industry faces significant changes. New reading habits are being established, new concepts are being developed, new forms of distribution are on the way in. In short, there are major changes facing the industry. In this picture, we believe it is important to maintain a certain dynamism and a great willingness and ability to change and to find new solutions – not to protect the industry in a way that relieves it of these challenges. Questions were raised about what the Right stands for in literature policy. You can read that from today's appointment. I would like to remind you that the agreement that works today and the instrument that otherwise complements this agreement were approved by way of derogation from the provisions of the Competition Authority by the Right-State Council Morten Meyer. The current Norwegian policy menu of instruments has not changed significantly after eight years of red-green government. The main concern for the Right is a clear objective that we will continue to have good conditions for the development of Norwegian authorship in the future, and that the reader should have good access to literature in Norwegian at competitive prices. A wide range of instruments is then required, in addition to the fixed price element, which we want to continue in the form of a book agreement. Then, of course, comes the question of value added tax. The right wants an equal value added tax, regardless of the platform, and of course also the grant schemes and purchase schemes – an important whole that together creates a good basis for Norwegian book production. We believe that this whole thing is the central answer to why we have done well in Norway. Reference is made to other countries, for example: to book countries such as France and Germany, in which the representative Gjul was resident. I would like to remind you that a reason why there are many bookmaking countries in Europe is that having an industry agreement is problematic given the competition rules in the EU. In this way, the industry agreement approach has not been the same. In addition, many of these countries do not have the menu of instruments that we have. The fixed price is, in a way, one major instrument — of course, slightly different from country to country. In Norway, we have a broader composition, and I think it has given good results. I think we can see that the Norwegian book industry has lived well with today's system, and that it will now be important to renegotiate it and bring in the themes that have also been central to the design of today's proposal for book law. I am talking about the issue of price development, the rate of innovation for e-books and the availability of small publishers without own bookstores. All of these issues have also been important issues in the design of the book law and have been answered in many ways in the present draft, although I am a little uncertain about the extent to which one will succeed in actually following it up within the regulations, as it is suggested. With regard to the difference between the branch agreement and the book law, it is that with an industry agreement today is 15-20 pst. in the case of turnover outside the law, it is therefore located in a room which is not covered by the fixed price. This room is also a room for developing both concepts and ways of trading, which I think the industry has a good deal to do with. It has not been as easy to be a newcomer in the Norwegian book industry, although many concepts are now approved by the large publishers. Otherwise, the Right attaches considerable importance to the linguistic theme, which is particularly related to teaching material production, to which I will come back. I also address the proposal from the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3576	The representative, Olemic Thommess, has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3579	It is a pleasure today, as the rapporteur said. It is both for the Centre Party and our red-green colleagues when we now deal with the book law. Not least, it is a joyous day for the industry, who has requested a law to take over after today's trade agreement. The centre party believes that it is important to put in place literature policy instruments that stand up in the years to come. Both quality, breadth and selection are important to us, and it is important that people across the country – regardless of where they live – have access to a wide range of literature, with equal prices. It also means a great deal for the preservation and development of Norwegian languages, and not least for the development of both target forms. The central part of the law is the fixed price. It shall cover all Norwegian publishers and dealers of books in the Norwegian book market, including e-books. We are pleased that the vast majority of the hearing bodies are also positive about the introduction of book law. It is important to allow publishers through the fixed price scheme to subsidise publications that do not have the same performance capacity as the best sellers. We want to stimulate the width of publications. It is well known that here in the country we have better literature policy goals than our neighbouring countries Sweden and Denmark, which several have mentioned earlier in the debate. We publish more titles, and we sell more books than neighboring countries. We need the fixed price in order for us to remain on top of titles and sales of books in the future, but we also need other instruments, such as VAT exemptions and purchasing systems. The Centre Party also considers it appropriate to allow suppliers, authors and translators to cooperate on normal contracts, which will help to facilitate the conclusion of agreements by new authors. The centre party is subject to as much equal competitive conditions as possible in the market, in which case supply and universal service obligations, common freight and delivery rules and non-discrimination principles are measures that will contribute. It is also important for us that the subject books are covered by the law, so that we ensure the breadth and diversity of literature for both large and small subjects. Opinions were widely shared in the round of consultations on margin regulation between the supplier and the negotiator. Even if we fell down on the idea that there should be a provision on this, we in the Center Party are still uncertain about how it will turn out. Our concern is at the smallest and most vulnerable bookstores and whether they will be able to be left with some surplus when a decision is made. In our neighbouring country, there is hardly a bookstore left in cities of the size of Kongswinger and Hamar. It's very worrying. That's why we're so busy ensuring that it's possible to get a profit on selling books here in Norway. We are so lucky that in this country we still have a lot of district bookstores, but many of them already see themselves having to deal with other trades alongside selling books. We are concerned that they should make as much money as possible to be book dealers – if book sales are just a little bit of a bee, it will eventually disappear. It became avant-out, and it ended up at 50 pst. It is important for the Centre Party that the scheme be evaluated after three years in order to address its impact. That means that the scheme needs to be reviewed, and I can reassure all the parties involved that if this ceiling turns out to have negative effects, we will do what we can to get it removed. It is also very important for us that the fixing of discounts between dealer and supplier is based on free negotiations. The examples mentioned in the legislative proposal, which may be the basis for a high discount, are not intended to lead the negotiations. The obligation to provide services is also important. In order to ensure that all titles are reached, it must continue as current incorporated practice requires, where the supplier pays the cargo. It sounds to the opposition as if a book law would be unfortunate for innovations in the industry, as opposed to the industry agreement in which it is evident. In this context, it is important to remember that 87 pst. in fact, the total market for books is free of charge. This is therefore not the major intervention in the market that may sound like when the opposition speaks. I also do not believe that the Book Act can guarantee a bookstore in each municipality, but it may help. There is no realism in that representative Thomsen talks about, with mammoth prices all year round, but the book law will be important to ensure the breadth of Norwegian literature – I have to repeat that. It is important to ensure narrower publications, to ensure authors and publishers of good terms and to ensure that there are bookstores who can live by their profession throughout Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3608	The placing on the market of books is a market, but the regulation of this market is more than an industrial policy. It's literature policy, it's cultural policy, it's Norwegian language management, and it's Norwegian identity management. The Christian People's Party believes that the fixed price promotes literary breadth, and that the fixed price scheme is an important cultural policy instrument for the development of Norwegian culture and the strengthening of Norwegian languages in a situation of global diversity. The Christian People's Party's conclusion is therefore very clear. We are in favour of a fixed price policy as a key element of Norwegian literature policy. The question then is how we most appropriately safeguard the fixed price policy and regulate it in the future. The inclusion of cultural policy instruments should not be voluntary, said the representative, Kvifte Andresen. The question is whether it should be voluntary to move in the direction that consumers – readers – want and adapt to technological developments. The answer may well be yes – it should be voluntary. At least we as authorities shouldn't make regulations that make you get away with it. The book industry – the entire literature field – is in a comprehensive transformation. The Christian People's Party is enough of the belief that an industry agreement provides a greater opportunity to ensure a dynamic that enables us to stimulate the transition in line with the challenges of time. That is why the Christian People's Party has also chosen – instead of supporting the proposed book law – to go in to continue the scheme of an industry agreement even after 2014. We believe that in the context of such a renegotiation, attention should be paid to the development of good Norwegian concepts for the digital circulation of books with a view to reaching a broad audience and to making it available in a consumer-friendly way. We are concerned that the ownership of the industry should not appear to be exclusive to the opportunities of the small publishers in the future. On this basis, we can draw two important conclusions: the main decision is that we are on the fixed price system as a key element of literature policy, and in the case of the Christian People's Party, we believe that it is best ensured through a continued agreement rather than a book law.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3621	I don't want mammoth prices all year. I would like to have a literature policy that allows good writers to become millionaires in a week, and that makes publishers make so much money that they can give me books that almost only I think it's nice to read. I want a literature policy that is active and that makes sure that as a little language we can contribute good literature to the world. It was a thought for me to hear that a very difficult language that mandarin, run by old communists with great regulators, does not regulate its book market, and therefore does not have a single author in full time. It's a great pleasure for Norway with a small language to be able to have writers who become multimillionaires in a week. I think it helps Norway develop as a nation in a completely different way. What I think is nice about this debate is that we are getting huge credit for that system – for that book agreement – we made almost ten years ago. It's working really well. And then we're like betrayers of these principles when we're faced with the same principles we've stood for for ten years – having that book agreement and having a fixed price. The main argument of the left to go against a book law is that this is completely wrong time to freeze our system. Because the book industry is changing enormously. There are many uncertainties because we're going into a more digital everyday life. Freezing the situation in a law means I am wrong. The system we create must be created in dialogue with all those who work in the industry. The strength of the book agreement has just been the solidarity between bookstores, publishers, authors and politicians, where they sit down together and create an agreement to help everyone get a piece of cake, but also everyone's goals of having the small decentralised bookstores, and that new publishers can grow up. We've never seen so many publishers grow up under this book agreement, as the Bondevik II government made. It really gave a flourishing of publishers – including the strange little publishers, for example. for us who like history books. The solidarity developed in the book agreement, I will not destroy by making a book deal with political overrides. But I would like to stress that I think the fixed price is important. It is important to have a system that takes care of all the parts, but all the vertical integration on the owner’s side and all the digitisation and everything that happens requires dialogue to be strengthened and not weakened, as it will do when introducing a book law. That's why we're going to vote against a book law today, but we're still keeping the book agreement that worked so well. When it is to be changed, it shall be changed in dialogue with those who are actors in the important world of literature we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3634	Today, Norway is taking the same steps as other great cultural nations have taken before us. For almost 50 years, literature has been regulated by an exception to competition law. Now is the time to raise the literature up and into a law of your own. Literature contributes to the preservation and development of values on which our entire democracy is based, namely freedom of expression, the transfiguration of words, the lack of meaning and the possibility of deepening us in our own value or in an entirely different value. Producing a book isn't like producing a bike, jogging shoes or donger ribukse. Books build democracy, they strengthen the transfiguration of words – behind each book there is a unique creative work. The law we are dealing with today is for the authors and for the readers. The law hangs on four pillars. The law makes it mandatory to have a fixed price for new releases until 1 May of the following year. And the Progress Party says that it means that one doesn't want to have competition. Well, one wants to have competition, but one wants new books to compete on quality and content rather than on price. We suggest a margin adjustment between publishers and bookstores with a discount of 50 pst, so that it's not just the market power that's available. In addition to fiction and sacprosa, the law covers both trade books and e-books. The fourth pillar is a series of decisions about more equal conditions of competition, so that smaller publishers or bookshops are not pushed by players with a stronger market position than they have. I have noticed that an almost collective committee supports the government's literature policy objectives on disability, quality and accessibility, but that there are shared views on how to achieve these objectives. A lot of the debate on the book law has been about how to meet new digital challenges. The criticism of the law includes: that a book law will prevent innovation and development – not least for e-books, and that it will freeze the situation as it is today. We don't think that's going to be the case. New technologies and digital platforms will provide great opportunities for the dissemination of literature as well. There is also something that the law provides. Today, you can read an interview in the Evening Post with one of the people behind it called eReadz, which can become a Norwegian book stream service. He says there: ‘The law is written with a view to letting actors to whom I have access.’ He has been tired so far that several publishers have not wanted to make an agreement with him. The proposal for book law requires all publishers to also deliver books to new independent operators. This means that universal service guarantees that operators like e.g. eReadz, who wants to launch a new power service – actors who want to implement new technologies and be innovative – should be able to do so effectively and be able to compete effectively. The book law also offers new possibilities for creating modern price models as streaming and subscription services for books on the Internet become common. It wasn't as easy to do before. The fixed price scheme also provides economic space for one to invest in technology and innovation. This means, in sum, that the Book Act provides the best framework conditions to ensure the development of a Norwegian e-book market. There is also an independent responsibility on the literature market actors to make use of these possibilities. I will follow e-book developments closely, and within three years I will also carry out an evaluation. I'm very proud that we in Norway now take this important historical step. We assure the authors of their terms and conditions; we provide readers with information on the width, quality and availability of literature. We legislate literature for its democratic function. So we give the culture and the literature a boost.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3670	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3673	The last Nordic winner of the Nobel Peace Prize came from a free-priced country. The Council of State said that the land must be built and democracy built with a fixed price. Does this mean that those countries that do not have a fixed price, but a free price, do not have democracy? 70 pst. of translated books into Norwegian, which the publishers translate, come from free-priced countries. Does this mean that they lack diversity and breadth? How will the Council of State be able to guarantee that we get book dealers in all municipalities and throughout the country with new legal clauses? How will the Council of State guarantee the quality of its publications, the width of its publications and the narrowness of its publications? How can a law guarantee all of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3684	I assume that the representative Thomsen is aiming for the Nobel Prize for Literature – not the Peace Prize. Having said that, I might be a little surprised that the representative asks most questions, the fixed price is its effect. For the fixed price's effect is some of the things that are well documented over many decades, because he has worked for many decades in Norway. For example, the fact that he contributes. to cross-subsidies by developing authorship over time, and that one may dare to bet on new authorships that otherwise could not have been expressed in the same way, is something one has seen and documented in Norway over a long period of time has that effect. What the law does is to legislate this principle, as well as to establish by law some conditions that make the conditions of competition more similar to those of all actors in this field. And then I don't need to criticize other countries' cultural policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3691	I did not come quite ashore with my post, and since we now also have the Minister of Education in the Chamber, although I am not going to address any questions to her, I would nevertheless like to raise a question of literature and language policy that the government can take further. These are textbooks and textbooks. Universities have a strategy – better or less well anchored – to find textbooks up to the bachelor level. It's a problem to get to. Under this government, the subsidy scheme for such books has been cut quite sharply – I think, in fact, halved. So now I see that the book law includes textbooks, and my question to the Council of Cultural States is: does she think that this is enough to ensure future textbook production, which will ensure all Norwegian language domains, or does she think it might have to do more?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3700	When it comes to the grant scheme, there's a kind of thing in the budget – not in lawwork – so it'll get us into that context. Otherwise, the market mechanisms are the same for textbooks as for textbooks and other literature. There is also some reason why we in the Book Act have chosen to equate this and ensure that the book law lasts for all types of books.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3707	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3710	I had actually decided that I should not take the floor in this matter, but it is a topic that interests me very much. I've been working in the book industry almost all my life, so that's how I'm sitting on the outside looking into an industry that's obviously changed a lot. Let's agree on that! This is a business that loves to say that it's at the intersection of the stock exchange and the cathedral. It's a cultural industry, but it's also an industry with a market and an economy and also some good economists. And thank you for that. Then we've seen a huge change in the external environment compared to new bearers of information, and at the same time we've seen an industry that has been very much integrated. A few years ago, there was a clear principle of power sharing where the bookstores on the one hand and the publishers on the other. Then the industry was discussed and adjusted in line with how it was perceived that the market wanted this industry to function in total. Today we have a different situation. We have an integration where the largest publishers have largely full control of the distribution – the bookstore stage and, in particular, the physical distribution of the book as a commodity. We also see that the ambition is similar in terms of networked distribution. I notice that someone claims that this is a happy day for the industry, and that might be the case. It might be a happy day at least for parts of the industry, but not necessarily the whole industry. But the big question is to what extent this is a joyous day for the book, for the culture and for the reader. Then I think you should be a little bit more careful, at least when we look at the alternative book law up against a more dynamic industry agreement. There's nothing absolute here -- that one is definitely better than the other. My comments go in the direction that I am afraid – even if the book law is to be evaluated after three years – that the industry overall loses some of its ownership of its own dynamics. An industry agreement, in a way, links the industry and makes it constantly responsible for market adaptations. It is at least on the basis that the Right and several other civil parties claim that we should rather continue an industry agreement that obliges the industry to take cultural responsibility seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3726	I'm going to be so rude to say that I know that there are a lot of people on the right-hand side of this room who could actually have thought of a book law, but unfortunately there is a strong internal conflict in many parties just about the question of book law. It was not least made clear at the country meeting to the left, but I would also believe that the same is the situation in the right. That's why you try to make it like a book deal is going to be so much more dynamic than a book law. Not a single example has been given in this debate so far that a book agreement is much more dynamic than a book law. When e-books become part of the book law, it's precisely because it makes sense for the author whether he writes for the paperbook or for the digital version. It's the copyright that's important anyway. Whether the author is given the opportunity to publish his work depends on the economy of the publishers and the economy of the market. That's what's important in terms of the book law versus a book deal. I want to be so disrespectful and say that the most dynamic thing about a book agreement is that it can be a gradual winding-up of the entire agreement, and that we will ultimately be left with nothing. It's the most dynamic, and I think that's why the whole industry, with a few players as an exception, very strongly wants a book law, because they see that the book agreement we've had up to today has been good. It's got great results. If we compare ourselves with countries like Sweden and Denmark when it comes to publishing books, we see that it is very good results to show both in terms of how many books the Norwegian people buy, in terms of the number of publications and in terms of width. But what matters to the industry is predictability in the future, and the fact that a book law removes the uncertainty of the authors, bookstores and publishers about what the framework conditions will be like in the years to come. A book law has ensured the framework conditions for literature policy in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3735	The progress is crystal clear that you don't want a book law, and I think that's an honest thing. Right has stated that they believe that an industry agreement is enough – it is also an honest matter. But what we should notice, on the other hand, is that the Right is also clear that they think that today's trade agreement gives too many advantages. This is what cultural policy spokesperson Olemic Thommessen says on April 27th. I'm counting on him to still mean it. He doesn't say much about what specific distribution he's particularly critical of. The same representative said to Minervanett.no quite recently that he is not sure how long the Right will continue to have the Industry Agreement. It's interesting to note that Right both criticises the industry agreement and says that they probably don't want him in the long term. The representative Thommessen has previously said that it is not that industry actors will experience a crash landing if it was a Right-dominated government, but all the signals he sends at the same time – if not otherwise – at least a gradual winding-up. In addition to this basic security that the Right provides to all those who adhere to this Book Act, they also show that they lack a consistent analysis of the book market. On page 11 of the section, they wrote that the proposal for book law submitted would: «reregulate the industry and force all sales of books into the same structure». So they call it "performing the industry," and they also say they're against it. On page 12 of the same setting, they propose that the government should: «review the literature instrument with a view to ensuring a level playing field for all industry actors in digital production and distribution». In other words, they say that they still want strong regulation, because they want a level playing field for digital production and distribution, while rejecting what is the instrument to ensure that it is, that is, the book law. I thought Right only had low ambitions, but then it turns out they're inconsistent as well. The Progress Party has said from this speaker that universality will strengthen Amazon and Apple’s seats in Norway. It is therefore important for me to be clarified from the same speaker that a person does not get the rights from the book law if one does not also take the obligations that the book law imposes. This means that as it is now – that these actors sell from abroad – they are not covered by universal service obligations. They must establish themselves in accordance with Section 2 of the Book Act, namely that it applies to the translation of books issued by the Norwegian supplier for sale through the Norwegian negotiator. It is the provision for one to enjoy both the rights and the obligations provided by the Book Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3760	Four out of five Nordic countries have not introduced book laws or plans to do so. On the contrary, they have introduced what we fear most of all, namely the free price of books. In Sweden, in 1970, they were given a free price when the country was led by the well-known liberalist Olof Palme. So these are countries that we have close historical and cultural ties to, that are socially similar to us in a number of ways. And this is what the majority in the Chamber believes is disastrous. It was also said by the representative from the red-green that the e-book is part of the agreement. Yeah, it was just supposed to be missing. I also understand that Amazon and Apple are rubbing their hands and seeing that the major publishers now have a universal obligation that they can now get on the track. But we still have a problem, and that is VAT. The books and e-books are getting different, and the e-books are getting more expensive. I said in the reply that the last Nordic winners of the Nobel Prize in literature came from free-priced countries. There's something to notice when you want to introduce a new law that thinks that this destroys the width. It's a funny thing when the big publishers, the big houses, go out and find new books from abroad to translate into Norwegian, they come pretty much – at least 70 pst. - from a free-priced country. It's also a cross of thought that you actually find books that are worth translating out there, which we fear so much. I asked the Council of State a few questions: how can a new law, new paragraphs, guarantee a width of the bookshop network? I did not get an answer to that. How to ensure quality with new legislative paragraphs in the publications? I did not get an answer to that. How can you ensure broad and narrow releases? I did not get an answer to that either. The publishers sit every day and refuse when it comes in to the author's sprout. We can't sit here and pass laws when there can be many out there who get a discount from the big publishers, but who still have the right to life. I don't think that can be regulated by law or new paragraphs. What the Council of State can guarantee is that the big publishers still rub their hands.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3773	The council invited some comments. I am pleased that she reads interviews and my comments around with such interest. I have to admit that my memory for the individual quotes is difficult for me to take back. I do not go around and remember exactly what I have said or have not said. I think through the practice or the actual policy we've been pursuing for many years, we have to be able to say that we are citizens of consistency in our literature policy. I find it hard to understand that through the position we now have, we are giving signals towards something that should give the industry reason to stay awake at night, and that there should be great uncertainty. It is clear that today's trade agreement must be renegotiated, in the sense that times have changed. I guess maybe some of the quotes that the Council of State picked up are just about price developments, about the pace of innovation, about availability for small publishers without a bookstore. These are all issues which have been quite central to the development of the current draft book law, and which will, of course, also be the subject of a renegotiation of an industrial agreement. On the issue of lack of consistency — equal treatment — the main issue is the equal treatment of platforms. What is now the pressing political need is a review of the whole instrument so that the instrument does not operate discriminatoryly with regard to the platform. This means, for example: that VAT – similar to VAT on e-book and paperbook – is a key issue in which we believe that the government does not make a significant contribution, and an important step in the whole dynamics of the transition to new platforms. I give with it. But I cannot, as I said, understand that there is some contradiction between, on the one hand, continuing the desire for a voluntary approach to the industrial agreement, which, when it comes to the matter, will not be so voluntary in any way, and, on the other hand, wanting a platform-independent review of the instrument.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3786	To sum up, I would like to point out that when the representative Ib Thomsen refers to the situation in the Scandinavian countries, he makes it sound like there's a static situation. But then he could not have followed the debate in Denmark. In that case, he would know that there has been a lot of debate in Denmark about the literature policy tools they have there that are adequate to cope with just lack, breadth, quality and availability, and that there have been many promoters, especially the authors, who have noted that they want to go back to the fixed price scheme. They have justly failed to get this far, but it shows that the debate in our neighbouring countries is not written in stone either. So ask the same representative from the Progress Party: how can you guarantee availability, and how can you guarantee a secure width, etc.? Actually, I think there are some strange questions, because it is clear that the book law governs the framework conditions, the regulations for this, and our reasoning is that we believe that literature is too important for us to leave it to the market alone. It's an honest thing to be ideological about market regulation, but I think that literature is too important for one to leave it to the market alone, it would also mean that it is necessary to use this type of tool to strengthen the framework conditions, so that it should not least be as careful as the authors need, and that one can secure the conditions for achieving the literature policy objectives. Then, the same representative from the Progress Party says that the major players are in the hands of the book law. I ask the representative to note that the authors have been the most important drivers of the law. That's what the law is for, along with the readers. Then I register that the representative from the Right says that they want an industry agreement, but that he is not clear about what the agreement will consist of. It might turn out to be random, but you can read something out of their ideological basics. They're also sceptical about regulation, and they want the least of it. I couldn't right the representative Thommess demented the quote from minervanett.no that he wasn't sure how long they would keep up with such an industry agreement. This means that, at least, nothing remains to be done for the stakeholders in the literature market.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3797	Quite briefly, the timing of an industry agreement is that the parties to the industry are negotiating an agreement, well aware of some expectations from the government about what such an agreement should contain in order to obtain an exemption. But it is the parties themselves who are primarily required to present the substance and balance of such an agreement. There is also an important point because such a process contributes to the industry taking responsibility for its own dynamics, as was said here in a previous article. It contributes to the loyalty of literature policy considerations, which I believe are very important throughout the literature policy. It may be a weakness, both by the free-of-charge system and by the legal system, that the industry is relieved of such responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3804	I would like to thank you for giving me the opportunity to work out a business agreement. I note that the representative from the Right is busy that the parties themselves take responsibility for their own dynamics – and that is where we differ. We think that this question is so big that one didn't just leave it to an industry agreement. I am glad that the industry agreement has worked so well for so many years. He has also inspired the book law in many ways. But now at least I think the time has come for a promise of what has been an exception to competition law – that a promise is in the form of law. It does so by means of the Book Act. This will also ensure a good framework for the authors, for the readers and so on for the literature. I mean, I'm more responsible than what I feel the representative Thommes is expressing. Once again, I record that he would not answer how long he would keep to an industry agreement. In other words, he does not do anything to ensure that the participants in the literature field are taken care of at all over time. That's what they asked for. That's why the authors have been the drivers for a book law – that it can be careless – that they don't have to wonder how it should be done every time the industry agreement is negotiated.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3813	I will not withdraw the debate any longer, but when there are major questions about the predictability of the option of an industry agreement, which we have today, I would just like to remind you of what is said by the government parties about the evaluation of the instrument we are adopting today, namely a book law. It shall be involved in discussing the predictability of the different options.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3820	An evaluation aims to ensure that the proposed instruments are as accurate as possible as they are intended to have the desired effect. Now I feel confident that we have produced a book law that has the most important pillars, which is important for ensuring the literature policy objectives. But at the same time, I'm concerned that you should always be critical of what you're presenting, so I've also invited you to an evaluation of some of these tools over the next three years. There is a great difference between producing a book law, and thus signaling that a desire to be careful over a long period of time, while at the same time wanting to ensure the framework conditions needed to achieve the literature policy objectives, and, on the other hand, saying that one wants an industry agreement that is somewhat similar to one today, but one does not know how much he likes, while saying that one cannot guarantee that he will last longer. Then it's not presumptuous.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3829	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 22nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3843	Sense if there is a unanimous vote, I would like to add some comments to the matter, because such conflicts that lead to such strong work disputes, it is important to discuss in this Chamber. The Norwegian model is based on a balance of power between employers and employees, in the same way that it is based on a balance of power between fishermen and the purchaser of fish, between a farmer and the processor of raw materials, i.e. the food industry, or in trade. What has made Norway have a decent working life is that we have very much national agreements where rights are granted, but where responsibility is also given. Not least in the case of the conclusion of an agreement, a liability is given. Co-responsibility is given to trade unions, whether they represent sea-going traders or employees, in relation to the contract they enter into. It has been up through our history to have national agreements, because it is through the national agreements that we ensure those who are the weakest in professional and business life. What is the matter in this setting is that Atea is the company that bought up Umoe ICT in 2010, and as they saw it, an agreement was reached – also with the blessing of the EL & IT Association – that Umoe employees would not require a collective agreement, when they had a local agreement from 2011. This relationship is something that the EL & IT Association contests and for which they were given the right to work, and a unanimous judgment stated that the link could strike if necessary in order to reach a collective agreement. The mediation between the parties did not take place. The company Atea has ICT agreements with NTNU and many municipalities. So it's a central, important and powerful enterprise. What is the matter is the question of the extent to which one should contribute to central agreements, and the company Atea is not particularly pleased that one has collective agreements. That's why this conflict happened. As a result, the government had to intervene with compulsory pay, and that is what we have to decide. There is a unanimous committee in favour. But I just want to say that when the EL & IT Association had struck for 18 days, sympathies were announced in a large monn. There are many trade union leaders who will point out that in the history of labour law, there is a well-known way to ensure that the government intervenes – and that labour law decides the case – that an extension to a sympathetic striker. In this case, we are hoped that the national payroll department that is now set to decide on the case will deal with it so that one places emphasis on having a working life that ensures that there are rights and obligations, and that there are country-wide agreements, which ensure more comprehensive assessments than what local agreements provide.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3856	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 23rd Last@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3870	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to four lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3879	As rapporteur of the case, I point out that the amendments to this bill essentially relate to the follow-up to matters previously dealt with in Stortinget, and/or clarifications of the applicable law. The first four proposals concern: the obligation to assess the benefits of training before deciding on special education replaces the half-yearly report on special education with one annual report obligation for schools to cooperate in the preparation and follow-up of measures and objectives at individual level of use of school staff who are not employed in the teaching position and who are to assist in the training. All of this is a follow-up to the Report. St. 18 for 2010–2011, Learning and community, which is about early work and good learning environments for children, young people and adults with special needs. The background to the next two proposals – the provision of compensation with a shared burden of proof for psychosocial issues and the extension of the limitation period in criminal proceedings on psychosocial environments – is a 2011 study on legal instruments to combat bullying carried out at the University of Oslo on behalf of the Ministry of Knowledge. The psychosocial environment was also widely discussed in the report. St. 20 for 2012–2013, which Stortinget debated last Friday, 14 June. The other proposals — permission to adopt a regulation on the common school system, permission to adopt a regulation on a ratio between the number of pupils and the number of teachers, clarification of the concept of ‘recognised educational orientation’ in the provisions of the Private School Act on the recognition of schools and technical change in the second paragraph of Section 13-10 of the Training Act — are individual proposals with different backgrounds. As rapporteur of the case, I am pleased that the Committee endorses the proposals for changes to the training law that were just mentioned. I also refer to a proposal for a change to Section 2-1 of the Private School Act, which means that the approval of offering secondary education on the basis of Montessori pedagogics is cancelled. The proposal is mentioned in Chapter 11 of the Proposition. The Committee has not been able to give sound consideration to Chapter 11 of the proposal before the Great Britain splits up before the summer. Therefore, the Committee has not dealt with the proposal of the proposal for amending the private school law under this chapter in substance. The Committee therefore agrees that the draft legislative amendment on this point is not addressed to voting in the Stortinget. Thus, the proposal for amending the private school law § 2-1, second paragraph, point (b) is not included in the draft decision of the suspension. Similarly, the proposal for entry into force in the second paragraph of III is not included in the draft decision of the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3909	As the rapporteur has explained, many of these legislative proposals have been discussed in detail in previous debates in the Stortinget. So I'm going to try to be brief. There is agreement on a lot, among other things. to strengthen the legal home of the fight against bullying school students. Going from six-monthly report to one annual report in the PP service, we agree. This allows those working on this to spend more time on children and less time on paper – that's good. Then I can draw the attention of both listeners and readers to the budget debate for the current year, when we discussed the red-green proposals for a legal standard of teacher density. At the time, we agreed that there was a gap in knowledge on this issue. We also all know that there is a great shortage of teachers out there, and that a standard of teaching density is not likely to lead to more teachers in school, but to more unskilled students in school. The area where we don't have a lot of knowledge is the quality of the teacher's staff – the importance it has for students' learning outcomes. That is why the Progress Party today is not willing to vote for what is as § 8-3, because we know too little to say that it will improve the quality of the school. Unfortunately, we believe that filling the school with more unskilled people is not the way to go to enhance the quality of Norwegian school. The Progress Party supports the other proposals, but I would advise my party colleagues to vote against § 8-3 today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3920	Several of the legislative proposals are follow-up to year-on-year decisions. Let me comment on some of the suggestions. It is high time for measures to free up time for teachers and specialised educators away from paperwork and over time with the student. The proposal to remove these half-yearly reports is welcome and is a contribution to alleviating school frustration over a bureaucracy that steals time from what the teacher prefers to concentrate on; teaching and meeting with the student. In the right, there is reason to note the reaction of the Norwegian Association for Developmentally Impaired People. Students with developmental disabilities are often exempt from grades; they do not participate in national tests and other tests, which may make it difficult to measure professional progress and determine whether there is a need for additional assistance. To this end, the right is concerned with the need for the Ministry to assess alternative ways of half-yearly reporting in order to ensure good communication between school and home so that parents with children with disabilities are provided with the necessary information on the student’s progress and learning outcomes. The government’s fight against bullying was seriously put on the agenda with the first national bullying party under the Bondevik II Government. Ten years later, it is discouraging when the 2012 Student Survey shows that more than 40,000 students are regularly bullied in Norwegian school. The organisation Stop Mobbingen has carried out a survey showing that more than 100 students have been bullied out of high school. That should never have happened. The fight against bullying must therefore continue with unreduced strength, local and national. Behind the bullying payments are the saddest childhood and youth ships, mental disorders and total or partial loss of schooling. It is the shared responsibility and duty of society and school to help these students. We can never accept "little" bullying. Only zero tolerance is acceptable. The fight against bullying is long-term work. High bullying tells us that the effort against bullying still has to be given the highest priority. Therefore, the right considers that there is a milestone in the fight against bullying when provisions are now included in the Training Act to share the burden of proof. Responsibility for ensuring a good psychosocial learning environment lies with school owners. Today's situation where the entire burden of proof falls on the weak party, the bullying victim, is unreasonable. Today’s legal change will hopefully result in more bullying victims and their parents’ orcs and will take the burden of bringing the case into the justice system – in order to try out the wrong victim and to assess claims for loss of education when it is the last resort. The last topic I should like to comment on is the proposal for a new section 8-3 on statutory health care for a teacher standard that the Right will vote against. The right has noted KS’s strong objections to such a teacher’s norm. And this amendment of the law becomes extra incomprehensible when the department itself writes in its hearing notes that there is no evidence that a change in the law of such a ratio is a good tool in relation to the learning of students. Norway is facing a significant shortage of teachers. A norm for increasing teacher density will therefore mean that the proportion of unskilled in Norwegian school will increase. It's not a development. Right wants to contribute. All students in the Norwegian school are entitled to meet qualified teachers. This proposal for a standard of teachers comes at a time that can only be understood as a choice for the harvest. For the government, it has clearly changed: in the 2013 budget, the government introduced a four-year grant scheme as an attempt to increase the teaching density of youth in order to gain experience and knowledge about the impact of increased teaching resources. But now, that is, before the grant scheme has entered into force in school and despite the fact that the Ministry repeats in the bill that the knowledge base is uncertain, the Department asks for the KS to refer to it as a blank authority to be able to introduce a teaching norm. KS also indicates that such a standard can have a significant impact on the ability of municipalities to organise the school in a pedagogical and resource-reasonable way. Right thinks it's on the limit of being unprofessional when the government changes the law before you know if the law change will actually have any effect at all. We have also noted with interest that there is an overall KS national government, including the red-green representatives, which indicates that this government in its own big business message about State and Municipality – governance and interaction among others. states that no manning standards should be introduced. A clearer example of a government that meets itself in the doorway, one should look for a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3954	As many representatives and the rapporteur have made clear before me, many of the proposals we are dealing with now follow-up to previous messages. I think we can refer a little bit to what we have said in connection with the different messages. But I need to comment on two things, also because this is the last debate we have in the field of school in this committee. We've made a lot of moves, there's been a lot of changes, and we've got a high school report that's helped improve high school. But in two areas, I would say that the statistics do not point in the best direction, and we have not managed to do the right handles. One applies to the drop-out in secondary school. We haven't been able to bring down the percentage that this is out of school in our day, and then it's the other thing about what we're dealing with today, namely bullying. It's sad to see the good progress we had both under Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik and after King Harald in his time focused on bullying in school and we got the numbers down, dramatically down, that the numbers have now risen again. It is important to do what we can to ensure that the legislation is in order, so that those who experience bullying are taken seriously. It's also important to do some other things that the Christian People's Party has suggested over several rounds to see if we can manage to bring down these numbers. So Christian People's Party supports the new section 8-3 to be able to give a regulation on the ratios of teachers and the number of students, i.e. a so-called teacher standard. But I want to give some words along the way. This is a policy that the Christian People's Party has held at several national meetings. But the earmarked grants to teachers that the government contributed to the budget, and the way in which they were allocated, the Christian People's Party did not think it was good enough because it overthrew the local owners by the fact that it was the department that would choose which schools had the greatest need. When there is now such authority on the table and the Christian People's Party supports it, we believe there are some important prerequisites that must be in place. One is that the school owner is involved in the discussion, and that this is not done at all by those who own the schools. The second premise that is important is that we also work with the teachers we already have to provide them with both continuing and continuing training, and provide the new teachers with a mandatory mentoring system that makes them good teachers. I think it's right, as many people say, that it's not just about the number of teachers, but it's about having good and qualified teachers. So we're going to support §8-3.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3967	When the representative Eriksen said that this was the last debate, I became a little melancholy, so I had to draw, but it was also to give an explanation of vote in terms of teacher's density. I think the representative of the Christian People's Party had a very good post. I've used an example to explain why we disagree with the way to explain this. Then I think I have to use the representative Harberg's municipality of residence. In the representative of Harberg's municipality of residence, the Left voted with a great desire to increase the teacher's density. It was at the top of the agenda for the politicians. They ran a tough campaign to get more teachers into school, because they thought the teacher's density was too low. The vant choice. The left was given to the rapporteur, and they have put in more teachers every year. Now they've managed to get up to a useful level, but they're still going to be a lot higher. In the neighbouring municipality, politicians did not give priority to teachers. And because Grimstad right now has managed to get across the magical boundaries, they don't get teachers of Kristin Halvorsen, but the neighbouring municipality, where politicians haven't run election campaigns on it, where it wasn't prioritised by the citizens in elections, and where they didn't vote Left, there were no more teachers. It shows that this can give a lot of strange results, and it puts a premium on those politicians who don't give priority to teachers. Then we'll undermine the whole system. We in the left are very ready to go for a norm when we can have enough teachers inside the job. Is that what I've been trying to do in these four years of the Education Committee, is to talk about all the measures that are needed to get more teachers, all the measures that are needed for us to have more competent teachers, and all the measures that are needed to make all those who are unskilled teachers skilled, good educators with a good professional basis for what they do. We're going to keep doing that, and it's going to be at the top of our agenda. But putting on norms and hours of non-existent teachers in the election campaign – those politicians don't think I should be appreciated when votes are to be distributed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3978	There is unanimity in the Committee on the vast majority of proposals in this case, and most of them have also been discussed in other contexts, but are now concerned with legislative changes that are needed to resolve matters that we have discussed in the past. So let me just associate some remarks with that. Firstly, we propose to remove the obligation of half-yearly reports related to special education. This means that there are more than 50,000 half-yearly reports that the school is now not filling in. But I would like to stress that the rights of students in special education and follow-up are not undermined, and those students have the same demands for feedback as all other students have. I understand that you can be concerned if students' rights are weakened, but I will strongly reject that they do. I would also like to stress that when it comes to the question of students who are entitled to special education, to receive grades or not, there is nothing that the school can decide. It's the parents who have the right to decide, and it's important. Secondly, today’s Storting adopts two very important changes in the legal certainty of students exposed to bullying. That's because we're impatient to get the bullies down further. It is true that when a national action was taken to bring down the bullying payments – and former Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik was to have great credit for it – a reduction was initially achieved. But now it's flattened over the years, despite very great efforts in this area. We've been overseeing the learning environment for several years now, and there's a lot more systematic working around in schools with just this, but we're not satisfied with the results we have. That's why we have, among other things, These two amendments to the laws. One relates to the burden of proof shared in actions for damages. It is not because we want more students to go to a claim for compensation against a municipality, but because we hope that we will be able to stress the responsibility of the municipalities to carry out preventive work. Then there are changes in the framework of the criminal law and extension of the limitation period. Both parts are part of a larger plan that we have for further, we hope, to focus attention on bullying, and to have full ‘driving’ in that work all the time. So some comments about what there's disagreement about, and I hope that the world around us and everyone who works at school and is busy with this, really notice how the parties are now arguing in this area. In the context of the budget, we have put in place a probationary system that lasts for four years, with 600 state-designed teaching positions for secondary schools with many pupils per teacher, more than 20 pupils per teacher, and that has below the average in primary school credits. It's to gain experience with such a system of teacher density, and because we listen to teachers, parents, students and everyone else who has their everyday life in school, and who says that this is an incredibly important experience to get involved in strengthening the work that we have a strong focus on, that is to get adapted to training and succeed in getting down the number of people who are asking for special education, because we need to have a more inclusive school where the students are being followed up better. I've talked to so many teachers and so many teachers' organizations, and the reason many teachers give to get away from school is very often the feeling of inadequacy and just not being able to follow up on each student. Now we have experience with such a system. I also believe that many of those who are now approaching retirement age can imagine continuing a little further if they see that increasing teacher density is on the way into Norwegian school, that many of those who may have applied for leave of school, see that this is a job that they can enjoy, and that they feel more satisfied with the way they can get their job done. It will be exciting to gain the experience that this test scheme gives us. A change in the law that allows you to come back with a provision on teacher density, a standard of teacher density, I really think is giving all the good teachers who would like to work at school, an extra argument to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3991	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3994	This is already a significant teaching shortage in Norway today. How is the Council of State to avoid the new standard of teaching becoming a mere piece of paper, when we do not see the outlines of a training capacity or other measures that would help to get the number of new teachers involved in making such a norm a reality?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e3999	There are today more than 35,000 teachers who have chosen occupations other than the teaching profession, and many of them give reasons for leaving school the inadequacy they have very often felt, namely that they have not had time to follow up each student. Therefore, I hope that the test system we are now conducting can make the school a more attractive job for all the teachers who have now chosen other occupations. Point 2: There are also many people who say that if they have more time to follow up each individual student, they might think of postponing the plans they have to retire. I believe that if the school in general is a more attractive job, we can attract more good forces. So this isn't the way to put an equal sign between the teacher's lack and the trial project and the desire to increase the teacher's density. My wish and my goal is that it should be the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4007	I insist that a teaching norm becomes a paper rule as long as you don't manage to come up with a credible description of how to get all the teachers needed. The Ministry itself writes in its consultation notes that there is no evidence that legal regulation of such a ratio is a good tool for students’ learning. That's what the department itself writes. And then a four-year pilot scheme is launched, which is likely to come into force from the next harvest, and before that scheme comes into force, it is decided to introduce what you really should experience and look at the effects of during the four years of the scheme. What kind of approach is that?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4012	This was announced when we proposed this in the budget, so it could not have come as a surprise to the committee. On the contrary, this was part of a plan to change the law, so that you have a basis for getting back with a specific standard of teacher's density. So this has been in the cards all the way. If I could be allowed to give the Right a little bit of advice, it is to let the enthusiasm you have for teachers, also lead to listening to teachers. There is nothing I experience that teachers bring up with me more often than the desire to do a good job in such a way that you can follow up each student better. This is a response to these experts, to whom I also listen, namely those who wear their shoes, and who make the job every day, who have a very strong conviction that this will make the teaching profession more attractive and make the teaching job more interesting and affordable. There is nothing I experience that teachers bring up with me more often than the desire to do a good job in such a way that you can follow up each student better. This is a response to these experts, to whom I also listen, namely those who wear their shoes, and who make the job every day, who have a very strong conviction that this will make the teaching profession more attractive and make the teaching job more interesting and affordable.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4021	If this is the most important government council do, and this is what the school called for to happen, why does she do it when she's going to leave? Why does she do that after eight years?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4031	I'm just waiting one day to see Trine Skei Grande sitting on the stairs in the Department of Knowledge and checking the coffee maker – I've said that before. She's very eager to take over my job, and I understand that, because it's the most important and most challenging and fun and in every way the most interesting job you can have. In addition, you have an extra bonus, and it's hitting so many nice and engaged people every single day. I've been very concerned that we should make a provision to increase the teacher's density. Now we have a trial plan that will give us better experience on just this. It'll be very exciting to see how schools use the opportunity they now have. They're going to have a little bit of different devices. Some of what we know from the research is that if you just lubricate it thinly and keep working just like now, it's hard to measure any major effect of it. But if you work differently and make sure you use the extra resources that the extra teachers provide, we can, for example, use them. hope to bring down the significant increase we have had in special education in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4038	I can make the councils quite calm. I think maybe the most important thing about being a Minister of Education is not the coffee maker. I think there are a lot of other problems that are much more important. I repeat my question: if this is the most important thing you do, why haven't you done it in eight years?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4045	This is one of many proposals and reforms that we have introduced in Norwegian school. Step Skei Grande is very familiar with it, for example. that we stopped the extensive privatisation that left with the Right and the Advance Party, for example. that we canceled the war with School-Norway to get to a completely different kind of way the national tests were going to work, for example. that we have put in place a system of continuing training for teachers, which many more municipalities should use, for example: that we have become much better in relation to early work, which is essential for small learning difficulties not to grow into major learning difficulties, for example: that we're much better at assessing learning now than we were before. Increased teacher density is one of many important proposals that we are now implementing. Step Skei Grande is going to have very big problems in being able to keep it together with the Right Party and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4052	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4057	It was the Council's response to me on the first line that made me draw again. The council almost insinuated that the right did not have dialogue with the teachers and did not know what Norwegian teachers were concerned about. We have very good dialogue with Norwegian teachers. We are very aware that what Norwegian teachers want are several qualified colleagues, several educated colleagues, several teachers who have competence at the level of the subjects in which they actually teach. It is one of the areas of this government's large criminal record that there has not been enough dimensioning of continuing education for the 9,000 teachers who do not have the qualifications they need in school today. Nor has it come up with a credible system that today's teachers who are in school will actually have the opportunity of professionally perfecting themselves in their working hours. Another question to which the Council of State does not have a good answer – there is a lot of talk about it, the Council of State says that there is a dialogue with the parties about it – and for which she has not made any concrete proposals is how new career paths in school should look. There could have been an instrument to get some of these 35,000 that the Council of State is talking about, and that is this so-called teacher's reserve. I don't think 600 jobs in high school will allow you to recruit back the many thousands we need to get back out of the 35,000, if we're going to have a profitable hope of closing that gap and the lack of qualified teachers that we see opening up now towards 2020. There is no doubt that much more could have been done here. Governments and governments have prioritised completely different things rather than really putting in the impact. If you were serious about recruiting so many of this so-called reserve, you had to put a completely different impact on a completely different size at a long earlier date. Now there's a new government that gets this ball trapped, and that's facing the big challenges of getting Norwegian students the qualified teachers that every student in Norwegian school should have access to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4068	Now perhaps representatives from the Right should win the election before setting up new governments. It's just a little bit of advice, too. This is a matter on which many in School-Norway will place the decisive emphasis when deciding which of the government options has the best policy. When we have over 35,000 teachers who have opted out of school and opted for other professions, we have to ask ourselves the question, how are we going to make sure to lure them back and persuade them to come back? Then I would recommend that you start by listening to what they have to say. What a lot of them say is, I liked as a teacher, I thought it was amazing the times I got to make a real difference. When I saw that there was a light up for a student who had been struggling with something up and down for a long time, then it was really so that I knew it was the world's best job. And then they say, if I just got a little bit more time to follow up every single student, so that I could experience it a little bit more often in the job, I'd think about coming back to school. Well, let's try that out. The reason why there is not only a probationary system in four years with which we are now going to gain experience is that we are also making this amendment of the law today. I am absolutely sure that School-Norway will notice who is voting for, and who is voting against. Then they will notice that the Right and Advance Party and the Left are voting against the change in the Training Act that allows you to come back with a provision that ensures teacher density. That's very interesting. There are a lot of people going to be concerned about when they're going to find out if you actually listen to teachers, have a strategy for recruiting more people back to school, have a strategy for testing different systems to prevent a continued increase in special education, have a strategy for working more varied and motivating at school.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4077	On the way down from the pulpit, the council said this would take some time. Yes, that's just the point: It's taken eight years. It's said that you've listened to the teachers, and that this is the most important thing teachers want to do, but you really don't know how to do it, and you haven't been able to lay the groundwork for doing it. The basis for implementing it is not just a promise in the future. It's all about what you do in the teaching profession. When I was the case rapporteur for the follow-up to the Time Management Committee's report, the Council of State promised to remove one – I repeat: to remove one – form. It took a year and a half from Stortinget's decision to remove one form, until today we remove one form. It's one of the things the teachers have asked for. We've said we have to cut by 25 pst. – it's raw and hard, but we have to do that. In order for teachers to be teachers, they must be teachers. That means we have to get the number of health sisters in school. We need to get other occupational groups in. We have to get in all of the people who can relieve the teachers in their everyday lives. The left has proposed 1 000 new health sisters in all state budgets over the last eight years. There were 200 in public health when you had to go to the elections for the second time. If you really want teachers to have time to be teachers, you have to make sure that all the tools around teaching get better. You have to make sure you create an academic race that means we bring the status back to the profession. We have to re-establish respect for the teaching profession by allowing you to be teachers and to spend time with the students. But you don't do that by adopting a norm, which will only lead to even more unskilled people. This is done with a large action plan at all levels, which is about how to get the time to be a teacher, how to red tape Norwegian school, how to bring the status back to the profession and how to make proper careers. That's what I want to do. It would have been an exciting task to tackle. But someone else has unfortunately been sitting there and having that job for eight years and finding out that the day you're going to go to the elections, you're going to start listening to the teachers. Some have listened to them very much and suggested this huge quantity. I don't think the teachers are fooled by a norm without content. I think they see that action is about lifting the entire profession and returning respect for it. You don't do that by adopting a number code in law. This is done by systematically lifting the profession. It's possible if you want to, but it's nice to have a campaign on teachers and teacher density.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4091	The representative Aspaker has spoken twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4094	I've learned that in politics too, honesty is the longest, and I'm proud to represent a party that has solutions other than standing here promising teachers we don't have. No matter how the council turns around and turns it around, it's adopting a teaching norm now, a blow in the air, because it's promising away the teachers you don't have. The right, on the other hand, has been very clear on what our priorities are: new teacher training, new career paths, the state will take the bill for the extra salary to which these new career positions are to qualify, and we will put a massive effort on the continuing training of the teachers who are out there and who, on a daily basis, acknowledge and see that they need more competence to do their job. I am betting that Norwegian voters actually notice that we are engaged in real policy, while the Council of State is engaged in symbol policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4103	The next speaker is Sverre Serigstad Valen.... No, I'm sorry, Snorre Serigstad Valen. I'm so sorry!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4108	Thank you, President – and we who gave each other a hug at the end of Stortingen Saturday! We've got to squeeze more! I am sitting here listening to Elisabeth Aspaker, and the representative Lien is not pleased that I am extending this debate, but I am doing it anyway, because the thought strikes me: it must be awful for in Norwegian school. Elisabeth Aspaker swings high and comes with a description of reality that I do not recognize from my many visits to schools around the country and especially in my own home country and in my home municipality. We're doing better on the international tests, which the Right was so very concerned about when they were in government. We're doing much, much better. The rise continues for every year Kristin Halvorsen is Minister of Knowledge. We're not in an eternal state of conflict with the student organisations and teacher organisations. We do not introduce privatisation reforms, which create two competing sectors, paid by the public, which are depleting the supply of vocational training and the ability to have a good district school offer. Teachers don't demand Elisabeth Aspaker's policy. They don't want grades in high school. They don't want a narrow, instrumentalistic vision of learning, no matter how strict and refreshing it sounds. They do not want privatisation experiments and the uncertainty brought by the local economy of the Right. When you run politics in the way of the representative Elisabeth Aspaker, you end up having no other visions than to find new ways to formulate how bad things are when the others rule. Then you end up blaming the Minister of Knowledge for what you think is going to be bad for School-Norway in the morning, and then trying to take credit for the progress it turns out to be, when the results are presented in the afternoon, after eight years of government SV. Finally, it's worth noting to Trine Skei Grande, since she's so concerned about what's been done in the last eight years, and that some of it's taken time: we can ask the teacher's organizations about who they like best – the knowledge minister Kristin Halvorsen or the government that the parties to Elisabeth Aspaker and Trine Skei Grande were part of for four years before we took over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4127	No one else has asked for the floor on case No. 24th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4130	At the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy, the President will propose that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy. 25 and 26 are treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4155	Int. Case No 490 S. 25 recommends the majority of the Committee that that part of Prop. 136 S, which is processed in the setting, is returned to the government. It is therefore desirable that this be clarified before we possibly start the reality debate on both settings. The President will propose that a short debate be held on the repatriation to the government before the Stortinget vote on the Committee's recommendation. It is opened to allow each batch group to have an entry of up to 3 minutes. The same applies to the Council of States, if she wishes to speak. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4166	It is not often this happens, but in this case it is necessary. The majority of the Committee, the Party of Advances, the Right and the Christian People's Party, requests that Chapter 4 of the Proposition be returned to the Government. The background for this is that the case proposal is very thin. This in-depth reorganization of Norwegian special forces is dedicated to just a few sentences in the proposition. In such an important case, the size must be presented with a decision-making basis in which the consequences, cost and assumptions are made visible and verifiable. In the very brief dossier, there is a lack of background, premise and cost and impact assessments. Unfortunately, there are several cases in which the Ministry of Defence delivers cases to the Stortinget which impair the Storting's ability to make good decisions and which impair the legitimacy of defence policy. It's very unfortunate, critical and not an acceptable way to present matters. The size depends on a sound decision-making basis when deciding on acquisitions in the billion class or making decisions with major operational and organisational implications. We experienced the same thing in connection with Prop. 110 S for 2010–2011, where Stortinget was asked to decide on the purchase of four training aeroplanes of type F-35. It was also the largest acquisition of Norway's history that we started at that time, and it was treated over two columns in the proposition. When we discussed the long-term defence plan last spring, we experienced the same thing. The Committee asked 291 written questions to clarify the matter. In both cases, we also called the Minister of Defence and the Chief of Defence to the hearing. Such a practice with a lack of decision-making basis for the Storting is only possible because the government can push matters through, with the majority of the government parties in the hall. This time, too, the Committee has tried to remedy the lack of information by asking questions and organising consultations, but the majority therefore consider that the matter is not well explained. The unrest and controversy which, in addition, seemed to characterise the internal process leading up to the government's proposal is an additional element which is not suitable for providing confidence that all the premises and consequences of the case have been highlighted. Against this background, the majority believe that the government needs to come back to the Storting with a new case relating to the issue of the organisation of the special forces, based on measures that actually increase operational capacity, and where the premises, costs and consequences have been explained in a sufficiently good and verifiable way. I would also like to add that, on the right, we support the Government's proposal No. 3 in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4189	The chairperson of the Committee has given an excellent account of some of the background to the Committee's position on this matter. I would like to add some comments to this. This is a very important matter relating to one of the most important operational units we have in the Norwegian defence. In making such an important decision, Stortinget needs a better decision base. Choosing to deal with an organisational change of this nature in an investment proposition appears to be extremely amazing. As regards the file that was presented to the Committee, if such a case had been submitted in my own municipality, it had been sent back immediately. I cannot, with my best will, understand that a total accumulation will deal with what the government here wants to deal with. As everyone in the United Kingdom is aware, there have been serious concerns that have been widely discussed in the media over the past few weeks. Only a total increase should be made to lift the flag and recognise that there are many factors that should be verified more closely before a decision on organisational changes is taken. Our country depends on a special force that has the best operational level. When trustees in the Special Forces Environment give clear feedback that the consequences of what is proposed can be mitigated by our operational capability, it would be thought that a responsible collapse understands that this case requires a broader treatment. That is why, in the majority, we have requested that this part of the proposition be promoted in a new case, in which the premises, costs and consequences have been adequately and adequately explained. I cannot, with my best will, understand that the red-green parties in this Chamber, which are well aware of the issues raised by the elected representatives of trust, do not take that into account. A total of this stuff had been dealing with Prop. 136 S as the proposition actually is, an investment proposition, and not an organisational change. We owe that to the soldiers who are part of the special forces, we owe it to those elected by trust who have been very clear in their feedback, and we owe that to the Norwegian people – because we depend on a special force environment that is functionally healthy and in the best possible operational condition to solve the difficult tasks that we impose on them.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4202	The proposal for joint management for our two Special Forces departments has aroused a very high level of commitment. How the internal processes of the Defence have been answered by others. But if there is anything in the claims that has been made, that there has been pressure and unfine methods in the process, it is of course very serious. That someone should have been threatened with telephone interception if they don't do as general says, sounds completely beyond. These are very serious claims that the Defence must of course take seriously. And if that's not true, it's also serious – by those who made the claims. I will not go into it any further, because the matter today is not about this. I also want to keep what the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs is doing, outside today's debate. As I said, the very serious matter must be dealt with – in appropriate and appropriate bodies. It was a little bit about the defence process. I think I can say that from this matter came to political treatment, it has been a very thorough treatment – an almost unusually thorough treatment, I would say. The Minister of Defence has carried out a number of trips and visits — to the Marine Hunter Command and to the Special Command of the Defence Force/The Army's Hunter Command, and to Haakonsvern, Ramsund and Rena. She and the Department have had a number of meetings with the Departments of Defence, with elected trustees and with individuals. Since the case was brought before the Stortinget, the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee has conducted open consultations with the Minister of Defence and the Head of Defence. The Committee has been on a visit to the Marine Hunter Command and to the Defence Special Command/Hearer Hunter Command, and the Committee has asked, and received answers to, well over 50 questions, partly very comprehensive questions and answers. This matter is therefore very well informed. The size should have no reason to send the matter back to the government. I really wonder if the opposition parties have thought carefully about what could happen if the return proposal had been adopted. Remember, as a result of the reorganisation, the Marines will now be put on counter-terrorism preparedness, which they are not today. If the matter had been sent back to the government, and therefore had not been dealt with in Stortinget until far out in the autumn, this could be delayed. The Stortinget should not do that. It is the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party that are behind the vote, as these parties have a majority in the Foreign and Defence Committee. I recommend that the representatives of the government parties vote against the vote and the proposal to send the matter back to the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4221	Let me first say that I of course share the committee leader's view that matters to be dealt with here in Stortinget should be well-lit and thoroughly addressed. However, this does not mean that SV considers that there is reason to postpone the treatment of Chapter 4. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence has had a thorough discussion of this matter. I believe that everyone – everyone’s opinions – has come up well, both in the public vocabulary, on television, on radio, in the country’s newspapers, in open consultation, in meetings and in the input of the members of the committee. In addition to the fact that a hearing has been held, the Committee has visited both the Marine Hunter Command and the Defence Special Command. There has been a thorough and fair political examination of the matter in the Committee. Therefore, unlike some others who have spoken, I am not going into the reality of the matter when we are now discussing this return proposal, but I am sorry to say that I note that there was no proposal for a postponement from the opposition before the moment of delivery, and after there had been a lot of attention on other aspects of this matter in the media, which is not what we are actually dealing with in the Chamber today. The charges of threats and abuse are very serious, and they are heard, as the representative Myrli said, quite beyond. There's something the defense and the department must get to the bottom of. But it is not on the basis of the case that the opposition requires a postponement, it is because one says that the decision-making basis is too thin. In that case, I wish that the opposition had given much clearer expression to much earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4232	The political mission of the head of defence following the terrorist attack on 22 July 2011 included a comprehensive review of the organisation of the special forces. This reorganisation has normally been investigated by the fourth department of the Ministry of Defence under the role of the long-term planning department of the Defence. The process has been inclusive. The process itself has been discussed with the employee organisations, and they have been involved in the whole process. All decision-making points in this investigation are covered by the Defence Executive Board. This is the best professional recommendation that can be made to develop the special forces to tomorrow's requirements. However, there are some in the Marine Hunters' Command who have been, and are, dissenting – this in the same way as at the closure of HV-016 in Oslo, where there was disagreement. In the media – according to the view of the Centre Party – the Chief of Defence has received unjustified criticism in order to solve a political mission in a good professional-military way. The Chief of Defence, as several have said, has visited the departments, got involved and made an overall assessment according to the mission given to the Chief of Defence. The fact is that the special forces are still to be recruited from the entire Defence Force. Initial training, training of officers and officers shall continue in the fields of defence, and defence shall be maintained, respectively the Marine Hunters' Command in the Maritime Defense and the Army's Hunter Command in the Army. The Government's proposal is to establish its own field of activity for the Special Forces of Defence with joint management and its own budget chapter – in the opinion of the Centre Party, a good solution that looks at a necessary whole in order to ensure a secure future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4243	The Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence has chosen to split the treatment of Prop. 136 S for 2012–2013 in two settings. One concerns seven investment projects, which are agreed to be dealt with today. The disagreement concerns the procedure for the second suspension, which concerns proposals for the reorganisation of the special forces. I'm not going to go into any assessment of what kind of organization we prefer, but be careful to show that the Christian People's Party does not want the matter to be dealt with today. The reasons for this are set out in more detail in the Committee's position, where the majority of the Committee - the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party - refer to weaknesses in the decision-making basis. When a profound reorganization of the special forces is proposed, i.e.: The Special Command of the Defense, the Army's Hunter Command and the Marine Hunter Command, we need to be safe on the basis of our decision-making. In the decision-making framework, the impact, cost and premise of the reorganisation must be made visible and verifiable. The majority of the Committee considers that these conditions are not met and considers it critical that the government presents such a lack of decision-making basis for the Storting. The fact that the case is referred to in less than one and a half columns of a proposition that is primarily about new investment projects is an additional indication of this. We therefore believe that the best solution is for the government to come back to Stortinget with a new case, where the decision-making basis is more robust, and where it has been demonstrated that the measures will increase the operational capacity of our special forces. The Christian People's Party therefore supports the postponement proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4264	Churchill once said that the point of democracy is not that the majority has power, but that the minority has something to say. It is not often that the opposition has a position that they have in this matter. In fact, I don't remember an overall opposition thinking that there's been too much ground to make a decision. It's with amazement I see that the government doesn't take it any further and sees the seriousness of it. Snorre Serigstad Valen said that it was not when they dealt with the matter, but when in retrospect it began to be notified of warnings, that the matter was lifted. I don't think I'm that nice. We are representatives, and our job in this room is to represent those who have chosen us. That means we're not just dealing with information given by a government council. We also relate to the information we receive as agents from those who have chosen us. That information is also relevant. That's why we talk to citizens, travel to schools, travel to businesses – talk to those who are involved. It's not just true what a state council has signed on to. There are often other truths, and when those truths are put before us, we should take them over. I react a little when Myrli says it is serious if someone has not spoken the truth in their notice. I don't think you should talk about alerts like that. To me it almost sounded like a threat. I believe that we should take a completely different view of the warning message than has been shown by the Council of State by the way it is replied to – what is in the control committee – and also by the magnificence representatives here. It is clear that the process around HV-016 has not increased the trust in this room for such processes. Conversion of HV-016 was not just a small internal disagreement. In fact, there was a big debate here in the Chamber – also within the government parties – and after the Ombudsman for the defence's opinions in the last few days, it cannot be dismissed as a slight disagreement within the defence. There are a lot of questions you can ask about this process. We're also going to vote for a postponement. I am sorry that the government does not understand that this is not something we do often. But we do it when we really feel like we have to do it. The representative Myrli said that one had to think about what would happen if the government's decision were not to go through – by the majority – now. I believe that this is not the position to be taken to deal with Parliament's proposals. In fact, this is where these proposals are adopted, and that is what you should respect.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4281	Before the Storting goes to the substance of the case No. 25 and 26, the Stortinget must decide on the return proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4287	The Stortinget is then ready to go to the vote on the motion for a resolution on case No. 25-digit number The Committee had set up:
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4297	The party of progress, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party are behind the vote, and the Left has announced that they support it. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre have announced that they will vote against the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4310	Then we go to the substance of case No. 25 and 26. At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 30 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party, Center Party, Christian People's Party and Left 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that the opportunity be given for a replacement of lines limited to four lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4323	First of all, let me draw attention to the fact that in both positions - 490 S and 489 S - the record of the Committee's open consultation with the Minister of Defence and the head of defence is attached. In the event of a mistake, this was not the case, but there are now enriched versions of both settings where the record is attached. So I'll be careful to promote the three government parties' proposals in case no. 25-digit number Let me first say a little about the consensus in the committee – several important investment projects. It is about: new helicopter hangars, offices and stand-up areas related to the existing helicopter base on Bardufoss renewal and capacity increase of infrastructure in Rusta clay at Bardufoss establishment of helicopter exposure at Haakonsverm with new hangars, office and helicopter site new administrative building and two new multi-purpose halls for the Marine Hunter Command at Haakonsvermn new administrative building of the Defence Logistics Organisation (FLO) – also at Haakonsvermner new construction for drop and parachute material at Rena airport repair of the main runway at Bodø main air station with new cover. Let me say a little bit about the acquisition of new fighter planes. The Government is currently authorised to order six F-35 fighter aircraft – with additional equipment and services required – with expected delivery in 2017. The cost of that part of the acquisition is SEK 12.9 billion. kr, of which SEK 4.5 billion. kr constitute the six aeroplanes, while the rest of the costs are distributed between the necessary integration work, the acquisition of a simulator, ICT and logistics and education activities. The costs of the Norwegian fighter aircraft acquisition lie within the estimates set out in the State budget. The expected total cost of acquiring 52 aeroplanes with ancillary equipment is 62,6 billion. 2013-kronor. Others from the Workers' Party will take into account the very important industrial programme in the acquisition of fighter aircraft – which is also widely agreed in the Stortinget. So over to today's battle theme: the organisation of our special forces. In Norway, we have two Special Force Divisions: the Special Command of the Defence Army – located at Rena in Østerdalen and Vealös at Horten – and the Marine Hunter Command – located at Haakonsvern at Bergen and Ramsund in Ofoten. This is the best thing we have of defense departments in Norway, and the soldiers there do a very good and important job of which there is great respect. But we have to be honest and say that the departments are of limited size. That is why we want two relatively small departments to work together to a greater extent – and to pull alternates. For this reason, joint management of the two departments is now being established – directly under the direction of the head of defence. So there will be a status increase of the special forces both organisationally and in fact. I'm saying it even more precisely: with what we're doing now, we're strengthening the special forces. This really shouldn't be to misunderstand. It shall consist of: The Marine Hunter Command shall be put on national alert to assist the police in the resolution of counter-terrorism tasks – as is the Special Command of the Defence/Shunter Command of the Army. A joint strategic management is established to ensure better interaction between the two Special Forces departments. And – as mentioned earlier: New building mass shall be built for the special forces at both Haakonsvermn and Rena. There have been some media speculations about the future organisation of the special forces. I would like to stress once again that the two Special Forces departments are still to be located as today, at Rena and Vealos and Haakonsvern and Ramsund respectively. In addition, the departments shall maintain their close links with their respective defence branches – the Army and the Maritime Defence. At the same time, the proposal requires the selection, basic training and basic training of officers and officers to continue to take place in the two Special Forces departments – as at present. The establishment of a joint management of the special forces facilitates the joint development of the special forces and better interaction between the tactical units – in areas such as preparedness, training and exercises. In addition, a joint special strength management will also enhance the capacity for overall priority and resource use. These are measures to improve the visibility of the importance of and increase the status of our special forces. Let me say that again: we are increasing the status of the special forces and raising them up in the organization – right under the top management. That someone can claim that this is a weakening is quite incomprehensible to me. Yes, someone has even said that it is a rage. That's the opposite that's the case. Fortunately, the opposition's proposal to send the matter back to the government was just rejected. In my view, a delay in dealing with this matter could create challenges for the desire to quickly put the Marine Hunters' Command on national counter-terrorism preparedness. Once that proposal has fallen, it will be interesting to see whether the opposition parties are really voting against the proposal. This is too important a matter for political games to be played out. Let me then comment on some of the things that have been said in the debate. There seems to be a pattern on the part of the opposition in dealing with some defence issues, that a number of questions are asked to the ministry. It's all right, it's part of Storting's work. Then one is not satisfied with the answers that come, and then a government accuses it – one does not like the answers, and then asks a new question. It's a way of working on politics that's not very dressy. Of course, one may disagree politically, one may promote other proposals, but to accuse the ministry of not answering the questions well when asked – a number of 50 questions in this case and several hundred questions when dealing with the long-term plan last year. That doesn't match reality. So to the representative Staahle, who criticizes the government for presenting the matter in the investment proposition. I almost have to ask the question: Where else would the matter have been submitted? It is to the government's credit that one presents the matter in a proposition for treatment in Stortinget. Of course, one could have waited until the government budget in the fall, but it would delay the process for half a year. That is of course possible, but the time aspect must at least be one argument in the case. This is about us wanting to quickly put the Marine Hunters' Command on national counter-terrorism preparedness. Remember the whole background of the matter: soon two years ago this country experienced events that we could not possibly have happened. In retrospect, everyone agreed that one should look at the organisation of the public, because in many areas things went wrong. In that process, it emerged that there is a desire to use the Marine Hunter Command better than what we are doing today, because there is a very good department in Defense. The whole background of this process is increasing the status of the marines, pulling them out and lifting them up. Then the whole debate has been followed up and become a debate where the opposite picture has drawn. Finally, I'd like to say to Trine Skei Grande that I should have come up with threats: now I think we'll all have a little calm down. It must be possible to hold political debates without all being a threat. This case we should also calm down a little bit now, and then the internal processes in the defense get going their way. But I have to say that if the trustees in the Defence Department claim that they have been threatened with telephone interception, and that is not the case, I think it says quite a lot about the climate within those departments. It really must be serious. Fortunately, I'm not in such a position that I can come up with threats, and I wouldn't have thought to do it if I had been in such a position either. Fortunately, the role of the Storting is not that of the Defence Departments. This matter is about to be completed. We want better special forces in Norway. That's why we're doing this now.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4409	The representative Sverre Myrli has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4412	Let me start about where the previous speaker ended. He started by asking us to calm down. The self-intelligence of this pulpit is sometimes absent, so I'm playing the ball back to the case rapporteur who's invited to dance, and then the dance is supposed to go political tonight. If that's how the representative Myrli now explains that everything is unproblematic, does he really think that this is just a political game from everyone in the opposition? I perceive that's what's the signal from the representative Myrli, and I kind of think that's saying that the rest of the Storting, with the exception of those in position, has one overly negative approach. The representative Myrli also says that this is important in order to get the Marines ready. Does the representative Myrli think that if you don't put these two units together, the Marines can't get ready? In that case, I assume that the representative of Myrli documents his claim, because I think it does not hold water at all. So to the proposal that exists today. I find it interesting to see this in the light of the discussion we had on Friday. On Friday, Stortinget discussed the notification of competence. In the case we are dealing with today, we have a change in the assumption of the exposure to Haakonsvern, which has an increase of approx. 30 pst. – up to 435 million. NOK, if I do not remember correctly. Friday we discussed competence. One of the things I stressed then was that sometimes I am concerned about the competence of the defense. It may be my fault, but I still see that there are corrections of quite a substantial nature that go beyond other operations. Another important moment — at least for those of us who live near the northern regions — is the runway in Bodø. I now see that you need to grab hold of it to repair it. I think that's positive, but I think the trick you're doing right now is essentially just putting patches on a wound. You don't solve the problems that lie there. So to new fighter planes: it's not often I hope I'm wrong about this pulpit. But right now I hope that I'm wrong, and I will, on behalf of the Progress Party, express concern about the technology described for the planes we've decided to buy, will be completely what it was when we made that choice. The second concern is: will you be able to deliver the aeroplanes according to the timetable proposed, or can you end up in a situation where there are delays? Our third concern is about the economy. But after listening to the position and the representative Myrlis affirming that it is the position that has knowledge and understanding, and the others are engaged in political circuses, there is no danger. But on a beautiful day, the Riksrevision may find it too good to say that here the Storting may have taken a little too light on reality. I don't know that today, and I'm also going to leave it to the conclusion. But if you look at some of our larger investments historically, it's not always a good hit. We can discuss the delivery of the 91 helicopters. There's also a lot of other things we could have looked at, but we're struggling to get things according to the plan we want, and we also have challenges when it comes to deliveries. Let me also get into another moment. The Ministry of Defence's capacity for information has been discussed here. After eight years in the Committee on Justice, with then Minister of Justice Odd Einar Dørum and here, former Minister of Justice Knut Storberget, I have learned one thing – that the Ministry of Justice was at least very careful and good at its information to the Stortinget. Changing the committee and working on defence issues was a little shock. It may be that the members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence are expected to be far more intelligent than those of other committees. I don't know, and at least I'm not able to measure it. But when you look at the information provided by the Ministry of Defence compared to the information from the Ministry of Justice: it is not possible to compare it. I was the case rapporteur for a satellite purchase case of NOK 1,073 000, if I do not remember completely wrong. There was one page of text – and then the same billion disappeared because you didn't need the satellite anymore. If that's the way you want to inform the Storting, you can of course do it. But there's not much respect for it – from my point of view. In fact, I believe that the Ministry of Justice has a lot to teach the Ministry of Defence – if that's not the way to place the smartest people in the defense committee. It's possible. I don't know. All in all, I think – as the representative Myrli said – that this matter is basically too important to make political atrocities. I think it's a total big deal that wants a stronger and better preparedness. I think it's a total expansion that basically wants to take care of the quality that both the Marines and the FSK and other special units have. But the process is also important. I have seen that the Council of State has stood here and said that the most important thing we do is to take care of our crews, because the crews are the most important thing. Therefore, at our discretion, this has been a process during a couple.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4444	I will without a doubt join in what the rapporteur says about the importance of the points on which the Committee agrees, and that is by far the majority in the case. I therefore see no reason to go into it more closely, all the time the rapporteur explained quite carefully about the investments to be made. The case rapporteur concluded his speech by saying that this was a matter that was too important to make a political game of. Political games have the government ready to make on its own. It is the right and duty of an opposition to ensure that when matters are to be dealt with in the Storting, they should be so well informed that the Storting can make the decision on a sound basis. The Stortinget has tried to do in this case as in other cases, and this time the opposition found it absolutely necessary to ask for a return to the government. So the rapporteur claims that it's about asking a lot of questions, and when you get answers you don't like, you say new ones. Let me give you some examples. In the context of the long-term plan, the Committee asked a question as to what the estimated commuting costs would be with the measures and decisions proposed. We got a response that there will always be commuting costs in the defense. That's also what the opposition understands. We asked how big they would be, so we had to ask the question again. In this case, we have asked questions about the costs of the measures. No one can answer. It's kind of funny, all the time you're going to put the Marines on standby from August 1st, i.e. this fiscal year, not to have a budget cover to do that, nor to have asked for, in the proposition or by any other means, extra funds to put the Marines on hold. We've asked a lot of questions, and it's not that difficult that we don't accept the answers, but it's simply because we don't always get answers to what we're asking about; answers we think are crucial to inform the matter well enough, so that the Storing can make a decision that will last for many years, that costs billions, or that has major operational consequences. This is a matter that has been going on for more than two years. There have been investigations and proposals on the special forces in 2002 and 2010. That's exactly why it's very strange that the government doesn't consider it necessary to devote more than a few sentences to this in the proposition. I would also like to correct the rapporteur on one point. It is completely unnecessary to reorganise the special forces to put the Marines on standby. This can be done entirely by the government without using the special force issue that is now being dealt with in Stortinget. If the government so wishes, the government can at any time put the Marine Hunters' Command on national alert, and it is – as the case-rapporteur will have seen when he read the vote – a proposal that the whole Storting is behind. Everyone supports the proposal that marine hunters should be able to be put on national alert, and there is no disagreement about that. If the matter had been returned to the government – as we proposed – the government could still have put the marines on national alert. There is a lot to say about many of the issues that exist, but let me make a few comments about two things in particular. One is the question of QRA and forward base. There it is now built up to quite a lot of uncertainty about what actually applies. On questions from the Committee, question No. 45 in Innst. 489 S for 2012–2013 – ask the opposition parties about the timetable for the transfer of QRA to Evenes. It is stated that the transfer ‘of the QRA mission with F-16 and support for the implementation of the Evenes strength production and exercise activity’ shall take place ‘by the end of 2016.’. We know that there's been a lot of discussion about this actually going to happen, all the time that it's still not expanding work on Evens. We also know that the Air Force Inspector-General has stated that it would be best to keep the F-16 and QRA contribution in Bodø out of F-16's lifetime. When I asked the head of defense about this at the hearing – that the inspector-general recommended the continuation of QRA in Bodø in addition to 2016 – I also asked how the chief of defence judged this professionally, and then the chief of defence replied: ‘It reduces the uncertainty we experience in the loss of competence on the maintenance side.’ So this is completely in agreement with the right hand side, and that's why we're also talking about it in the setting. That would be a very reasonable solution. But in the last few days, the representative Myrli has spoken to several newspapers in North Norway about whether it will be based on Evenes from 2016 or not, and it seems that it has still not been concluded by the government, and there are many different answers to the questions asked. The Ministry of Defence then also told the NRK Nordland on 6 June this year that the Ministry of Defence has not taken a decision in the matter. One can also notice – with a sloping glance – that the representative Myrli believes this matter is unnecessary to discuss in the Stortinget, but so important that it needs to be discussed in the government fraction. There's something you can notice – a little with a sloping can. The second theme is the question of the fighter aircraft purchase. It's an air purchase that the whole Storting is behind, and we're going to start with the main acquisition. But Norway, as the only partner country, has pushed forward the acquisition. It is of great interest for Stortinget to know how the Minister of Defence assesses the negotiating positions it now gives Norway — all the time we have to sign parts of the acquisition before deciding on the main areas of industrial agreements such as: JSM – what positions it gives us, and what that will mean for further progress. There is no doubt that industrial contracts have been signed for relatively small sums so far. There is a clear expectation that there will be more industrial contracts. There is also a clear expectation that their value over time — i.e. the lifetime of the aircraft — will be approximately equivalent to the cost of the purchase. As I said, it's not often the Big One and the majority of the Big One do what we've done now, and ask for what we've now asked for. It is not right – as the representative Snorre Serigstad Valen said in his statement – that the opposition parties were waiting and waiting, just to be able to deal with any issues before we asked for a return. The reason we wanted to wait was because we wanted to give the department the opportunity to answer the questions we asked. That is what we think is fair in a process and a procedure in the committee. Of course, we should also give that this time. But when we did not get adequate answers, we thought we answered the big questions that have to be asked in connection with such a big reorganization, we thought it was necessary to do what we were doing now and ask for a return to the government. We have been quite clear that the warning case and the issues that have arisen in the cooling water are not the cause of the suspension and the return proposal. Of course, there are issues that, in sum, help to put a shadow on the whole process, but that is not why the opposition in the Stortinget now asked for a return. As the majority also writes in their comments, there is a need for better coordination, better cooperation and, if necessary, greater integration of specialist departments than what we have today. This is about making the right changes at the right pace and in the right way. If the government had presented the Stortinget for a decision-making basis where consequences had been made visible, analyses made visible, costs made visible – this would have been a much, much simpler matter. But at the present time, there is no right to be able to support the government's proposal for a reorganization that exists, and we therefore want a further investigation of the matter, in which we get answers to the questions we ask about everything from operational consequences to costs. As long as the government hasn't been able to answer it, after repeated questions and hearings, we don't think it's right to vote for it, at this point in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4479	First to the committee chairman: it is not that I said in my previous post that the opposition was just waiting to pick up issues, but I wish that the committee chairman was also open to her, as the rest of the committee members, having access to the background material for the decision we are taking today. And the representative Skei Grande from the Left said explicitly in his previous post that it is the ombudsman's role related to the alert case that forms the background for the Left to support the proposal for return at least. So to what I should say, it is not to avoid that defence policy often becomes district policy, that the debate often goes high, that there are many strong opinions. And that's good. However, it is also important to emphasise the following two points: Norway does not spend large sums on defence to keep industry alive, and Norway does not spend large sums on defence to employ. The money we spend on the defense is to be spent on the defense of the country. The defence is, as we all talked about on Friday when we adopted gender-neutral protection obligations, the sharpest instrument our democracy has. It is particularly important that democracy adopts both the framework and the organisation of our defence. It is from decisions taken in this Chamber and from the duty of protection that the defence is given its legitimacy. I'm going to admit one thing, and that's that I'm on my neck is a Nordic. There can't be any surprise at anyone in this room, I'm an SV and a supporter of strong Nordic defence cooperation and a break with NATO's out of area policy. I represent the only party on the Stortinget that stands for this policy, despite the fact that we agree with our business partners on the basis on which we are now governed. And I think that's okay. Therefore, it is probably no surprise that, in the last period when I did not sit on the Stortinget, I would rather have seen that it was Swedish aircraft we bought to meet our need for an air defence. SV is a follower of a good Norwegian fighter aircraft, and I believe that our safety and our interests could well have been taken care of by Swedish aircraft, with the cooperation with Sweden such a purchase would also be given. So the government lands on F-35. And then it has been important for SV to ensure that the acquisition of combat aircraft does not come out of control, either cost or time. Too many share Ellingen's concerns. That is why both we and the other red-green parties have been concerned that the defence had to take a greater share of the acquisition costs than it was originally foreseen, that a clear cost framework has been set for the purchase of combat aircraft, and that the Storting should deal with each order made, so that there is real parliamentary control. I'm very happy that we've had a majority on it. I am glad that the Minister of Defence was so clear on this at the hearing. SV believes it is a right decision to strengthen counter-terrorism capabilities by putting the Marine Hunter Command on standby for enforcement assistance to the police. A lot of people might think this is high time. The very idea of enforcement assistance challenges our traditional and very important distinction between the responsibilities of the police and the defence, but at the same time it is important to use the resources we have in Norway well, and for my own part I must add: to avoid unnecessary militarisation and arming of the police. The defence is based on — no matter what is done in the police — competences and capacities that the police, for natural reasons, may not have to the same extent. I would like to refer to exciting contributions from both Stein Ørnhøi and Kåre Willoch during the last year of the social debate that deserves debate – also here in the Stortinget. We will also come back to that later when the government submits its informed consultation proposals for legislation that regulates this. But back to the case: I think it's a good solution that FSK and MJK continue as two departments, and retain their different selections and educations, while establishing a joint management of the special forces. It's not a combination – I just have to stress it, because it was said earlier. Norway is a small country, and the availability of equipment and aircraft, vehicles and good practice partners is limited, and there will be a great advantage in seeing the two forces in context and making overall priorities. In my view, this also means a status increase for the special forces with which both MJK and FSK/HJK should be satisfied.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4496	The investment proposition Prop. 136 S is part of the implementation of the defence long-term plan, part of developing the military forces for our demanding future. It is a major issue today, much greater than what the debate and attention should call for, when the Storting will today approve the purchase of the first six fighter aircraft and a significant investment as a result, related to integration work, simulators, ICT, education and logistical activities, as well as an uncertainty provision for the programme. In the case of large acquisitions, the Ministry of Defence budget for 2013 is increasing from 3.5 billion. kr to 16.4 br. Fighting light investments are of enormous dimensions and require special vigilance from the Storting. The matter has been dealt with in many places in the past, including the Monitoring Committee, and the Council of State has given strong assurances that the budget will be kept. As the Committee states in detail in its position, the industrial contracts for Norwegian industry are not in close proximity. On the part of the Centre Party, I underline the importance of significant progress in this area. And this is far more than ammunition. Military technology development has a very high value in developing technologies for civil society. Not least the developments in Kongsberg, through the long military tradition, have shown how we are today reaping results from past technological leaps as a result of military contracts. That is essential: the results of what is now being researched and developed, we may not see until 15-20 years. In the investment proposition, there are also seven construction projects, and the Centre Party will strongly point to the exposure we have had to Bardufoss as the main base for the quadron. Therefore, I would like to pay extra attention to the importance of promoting an investment project on Bardufoss that exceeds half a billion in the cost framework, and this underpins Bardufoss’ role as the main helicopter base. Following the terrorist attacks on 22 July 2011, Rygge has been given new tasks in the field of preparedness and has been significantly strengthened. And it makes it necessary to stress the need for the organization to now ensure that the main base of Bardufoss becomes the real management of all the quadrons. And I would like to underline that: the base of Bardufoss is not least important in the national focus, in ensuring territorial monitoring and effort – at sea and on land. Territorial must never be underestimated by military defence. That's what defence is. In this case, however, the focus is on the creation of a common area of activity of the Special Forces of Defence. The centre party expects that there are clean conditions in reorganisation processes so that decisions cannot be called into question. As I said earlier, we in the Center Party believe that the Chief of Defence has received unjustified media criticism from strong environments with good political contacts. I explained in my previous article the professional basis for the decision. Since the Ombudsman for Defence was involved in the debate, with the Ombudsman’s description of the process behind the closure of HV-016, I feel the need to address it: I am quite surprised when the Ombudsman’s statement on page 11 says ‘HV-016 was closed on page 11. 1 January 2011 by order of the Defence Manager’ – as if it were under the order of the Defence Manager that HV-016 be closed. Of course, if the Storting had disagreed, it would not have happened. It is also said here that when deciding to close down, personnel feel that their efforts are not being properly valued. I think it's strong to write such things. The Ombudsman also states that: ‘In the Ombudsman’s view, this case has not been handled in any good way by the defence and the personnel should at least be able to expect the defence to treat them properly and with due respect’. I think it's strong that one can say such things. It is further said that ‘the complaint concerns, on the one hand, the legality of the closure’ and, on the other, the decision to be taken by the Ombudsman in 2013. Yes, it should be a simple decision, because the decision to close the HV-016 has the support of the Storting, and if it has the support of the Storting, it is legal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4523	In my previous article, I have explained why the Christian People's Party believes that the decision-making basis is too poor for the Stortinget to make a decision today on how to reorganize the special forces. Let me still express our starting point. The Christian People's Party believes that there is good reason for better coordination, cooperation and possibly greater integration of the special departments. The objective must be real operational gains. The planning process must ensure and demonstrate that this is indeed the case. Instead, there are obvious shortcomings in the decision-making basis. In addition, there is uncertainty about the quality of the internal process, which is a cause of concern for defence. In addition, over the past few weeks, the Ministry of Defence has failed to log enquiries into six e-mails relating to an alert case related to the process of reorganising the special forces. This lack of record-keeping is a new indication that there is an improvement in the procedural potential of the ministry. The entire opposition has concluded that the basis for decision is too poor. We need a better process and a better decision-making basis. When, despite this, the government forces a vote on the reorganisation today, we in the Christian People's Party will vote against the proposal. The Christian People's Party supports the seven new investment projects that are normally promoted in this annual investment proposition, but we are concerned about some delays and overruns. This applies, inter alia, to: a cost exceeding 50 pst. for the helicopter exposure of Haakonsverm, and for the delay and cost increase information for the logistic project of the LOS programme. The largest single project concerns the ordering of six F-35 fighter aircraft for delivery in 2017. The price tag for the planes is $4.5 billion. kr, and with optional equipment and services, the bill amounts to close to 13 billion. kr. The fighting project has a historically high cost framework. We assume that the government has coverage for its assurances that costs, timing and technology solutions are consistent with the assumptions. However, we need to point out several risk elements: there is a significant difference between the picture presented by the government and the information provided through official documents of other countries, in national audit reports, in technical assessments and in the trade press. There is still uncertainty as to the operational capacity of the aeroplane, in particular as regards the development of the software and the high-tech helmet of the pilots. There is also uncertainty about the progress of the programme and the final price per fighter aircraft, in particular because other partner countries in the F-35 programme are discussing whether to order fewer aircraft. Most seriously, the main customer, the United States, makes decisions that reduce or delay the programme. To date, the Norwegian industry has only been able to compete for contracts worth around 2.2 billion. kr related to the fighter aircraft project. From the ‘repurchase target’ the whole of the Storting assumes that the industrial value creation in Norway must be of the same order of magnitude as the purchase costs. We're not quite on track. Misrelation is growing. It requires political vigilance. We support all seven investment projects. The helicopter base and a better infrastructure at Rusta clay at Bardufoss are required. The improvement of the runway at Bodø Main Aviation Station is essential. Investments in new constructions for the Marines at Haakonsvern and for the Special Forces at Rena also have our support, of course. The same applies to the FLO administrative building at Haakonsvern. However, we find reason to stress the government's responsibility for keeping cost frameworks and other assumptions. The size must be informed of any deviations.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4546	The representative of Myrli believes that you should calm down a little. You have to do that, but I react very much to the fact that you are pre-prosecuting a warning case. For the Left, alert cases are very serious, and what we have seen of alert cases, both in the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Justice and with others with whom we have worked, has not raised much confidence – nor this time. So maybe you have to “rest down” to pre-prosecut them, and rather let them be properly treated. The fact that there is so much conflict around reorganization, said the representative Myrli is about culture. Yeah, it's about culture. How to ‘set’ a culture? Well, a culture is set as a leader. That's why you're the head of a department, that's why you're the head of such a unit, and that's the way you actually put a culture. That's what some of us started focusing on in the 22nd of July hearing, saying that there's actually a difference between determining and leading. The decision is made when a decision is taken. Lede is when you set a culture. And maybe we're here at some of the core of the problem. Snorre Serigstad Valen claimed that there was a lot of access to information here, and that the main reason was the alert matter. No, the main reason was that we feel that this is not illuminated enough. The left is not even in the committee. We are allowed to ask two questions per representative per week, and in these two weeks we have 200 cases. We are two people, and in two weeks we are allowed to ask four questions to the government to inform the 200 matters that are being dealt with these two weeks. That means we're pretty dependent on asking a lot of questions from others. It was done here, but we do not feel that it is illuminated. I must say that I fully agree with the remarks made by the Defence Ombudsman, even though Lundtigen was tumbling over them. Lundtigen should remember how the treatment was in this room, where there were even central Workers' Party people who were in charge of the process and said it was too bad, that it was not bound by a decision in the hall. And the criticism that the Defence Ombudsman is now just putting up with is actually a function of the debate that was in Stortinget. I would otherwise like to hear the opinion of the committee chairman on this – and there have now been many problems in the defence, both of culture, of reorganization and of the mandate given from this Chamber. Then I will use the last part of my speaking time to say something about flight selection. Unlike SV's representative, we agree with the flight selection that has been made, but we are very critical of the process. When we made the purchase of training planes, the Left chose to vote against – mainly because we did not think this was well informed enough, but also because this was a blank authorisation for a bill that we did not know would be large or on which process had been put. We're today going to accept the purchase of the six planes in 2017, but we're very critical of the total of the 52 planes, and we're going to make sure that we can be more critical of the aircraft purchases that are coming. These are huge investments, and all the big business representatives should feel confident that these purchases have been made properly. Then I would like to mention that we also support proposal No. 3 which has been promoted in the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4563	The modernisation of defence is one of the most comprehensive and successful changes that the public sector has undergone in Norway. We're going to continue this process right now. The government has through Prop. 136 S submitted proposals for the approval of seven new projects in the field of property, construction and construction and proposals to extend the order authorisation for the fighter aircraft programme to acquire six F-35 fighter aircraft. Furthermore, the proposal contains priority actions for the further development of the Special Forces of Defence. We are now tabling proposals on the approval of investments in properties, construction and installations for a total of SEK 1.6 billion. kr. At the same time, we propose to extend the order authorisation for the fighter aircraft programme to a total of 12.9 billion. kr. Of course, these are good reasons. These investments will significantly increase our ability to control our own air, land and sea territory. Investments also contribute to the realisation of the defence structure adopted by the Stortinge in examining the current long-term defence plan. I am pleased that the Committee joins in the proposals for new construction projects and at the same time gives its approval to the commissioning authority for the fighter aircraft programme. So to the investments involved: the government will facilitate a compact collection of defence activities at Bardufoss in Rusta camp. In addition, the government is proposing to provide the defense's main helicopter base at Bardufos' future-oriented facilities to solve their mission. At Haakonsvern, the government will ensure good framework conditions for cooperation between the Maritime Defence frigates and the NH90 helicopters and will therefore start the construction of helicopter exposure. The Marine Hunter Command shall have appropriate facilities to maintain and further develop the high quality of Norwegian Special Forces. The Rena construction project will provide special forces with facilities to prepare the loads that can be dropped from aircraft and ensure the proper management of the material. In Bodø, damage and defects are recorded on the main roller coaster. In order to ensure both military and civil aviation activity, the government has found it necessary to carry out a runway upgrade. The take-up of the main acquisition of fighter aeroplanes constitutes, for cost-effective purposes, the majority of the actions promoted in the proposition. It is also one of the most important investments in the defence of Norway in the foreseeable future. F-35 will replace our old F-16 and form the backbone of Air Force and Defense for the next 40 years. It has been asked by the representative Eriksen Soreide about the position an acceleration of the order gives us. It gives us a better position for industrial agreements and to be part of the programme as an active and credible partner. We have recently received feedback on this through the meeting of the fighter aircraft program last week in the United States. It is also the case that the acceleration of investment will make it easier to phase out F-16 and phase in F-35, and we will have better control over both the training of personnel and the demanding operation that must then take place. The size is well known that F-35 is a fifth-generation combat aircraft with unique capabilities, and that F-35 will be a hub in future network-based operations. The first six aircraft in the main acquisition will be scheduled for Norway in 2017. Total costs lie within the cost picture previously reported in the Stortinget and represent 62 billion. 2013-kronor. The supply plan also indicates that the initial operational capability of the new fighter aeroplanes will be in 2019. This is important in order to maintain a satisfactory operational level during the transition phase between F-16 and F-35 and to facilitate proper operational operations. Today, 65 aircraft have been delivered to the partner nations, and the signals I receive about the development of F-35 through the international programme assure me that the new planes will come to Norway in 2017, and that they have sufficient maturity. In the case of industrial agreements, from the day one, the government started working on this – and that was about when we became a government in 2005 – worked for industrial agreements. The development of 25 mm of APEX ammunition at Nammo AS and Joint Strike Missile, JSM, at Kongsberg Group are good examples of Norwegian industry being far ahead in the development of modern technology. These are also important parts of the Norwegian industrial programme. Subject to successful development and integration, both APEX and JSM will be key capacities on Norwegian flights. The development and planned integration of APEX ammunition is on track, and we are experiencing great interest among other nations. Step 2 of JSM development is planned to be completed during the summer. The Ministry of Defence plans to return to Stortinget during the autumn of 2013 with proposals for decisions to implement the next stage of development. Since 22 July 2011, it has been important for the government to further develop the ability of the defence sector to assist civil society in crisis situations. Special forces are here a strategic resource. Over time, the defence has developed very high-quality specialised forces — many of whom have been involved — with very relevant and requested capacities. What we are proposing in this proposition is that the Marine Hunters' Command should be put on the alert to assist the police in resolving counter-terrorism tasks and that a common area of activity should be established to ensure better coordination between the two Special Forces Departments of Defence. The emergency mission is based on the maritime special competence and capacity of the Marine Hunter Command and will also cover enforcement assistance to the police in rural areas. This preparedness shall be maintained from Bergen. In addition to this, the preparedness of the Special Command of the Defence Force/the Army's hunter command comes from Rena. I have to say that I am a little surprised when so much more documentation is requested regarding this. It's a little bit unclear what's going on. In the investment proposition, we have explained large investment costs, in particular Haakonsvern and Rena for the special forces, and we have also answered questions where we say that this year an additional supplement in the readiness for the Marine Hunter Command will amount to 3.4 million. kr. We also say in the investment proposition that we could possibly come back to this in the Maritime Defense budget, and we'll come back to it in the budgetary process. The common area of activity is important, and I would like to stress that this does not involve the merging of the tactical departments, which I have actually heard a representative say here today. It's not a merger, it's a joint management. It is very important that these two departments should be able to operate both their own selection and training of their own personnel and develop their own nature, but joint management is important for coordination and – as the representative Myrli said – as a direct priority of the special forces and as an increase in their level. So for an information issue: The size has been previously informed about a total planning framework of 129 million. kr to meet the total need for security measures at the Armed Forces Operational Headquarters. After the completion of tendering procedures, the overall planning framework for the project is likely to have to be adjusted. In order to ensure the fastest possible start-up and progress, the Ministry of Defence intends to approve the increased cost framework for the action. Detailed quality assurance of other planned measures is necessary and the Government will return to the Storting in an appropriate manner in relation to this case. In conclusion, I would like to say that I am pleased to be able to record that there is a broad majority in the Committee and in the Stortinget for the implementation of both EBA projects and the order authorisation of the new fighter aircraft. This will provide the Defense with a significantly enhanced capability. Further development of the Special Forces of Defence will both enhance operational capability and strengthen preparedness.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4614	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4618	Does the Council of State think that the media headlines of the last weeks about the special forces help to strengthen the faith of the Norwegian people and Norwegian soldiers in how the defense is led by you as the Council of State, and by the head of defence?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4623	There's never any luck with negative press releases or negative issues. We're always trying to avoid that. At the same time, I would like to say that this matter – the common area of activity of the special forces – is an important measure. It is an important measure for us to know that we have the resources we need in order to develop the special forces in the future and to be able to have good preparedness across the country. And that's actually what this case is about.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4630	The strange thing is that none of the figures currently presented by the Council of State are presented in the proposition. You might wonder why it has not been possible for the government to present these numbers in the proposition. That's the information the Storting should have, and that's the information we've been given after repeatedly asking. That's exactly why we've had to ask. We have experienced with this government that moving projects, reorganisations and other major changes in defence are not cost-effective, or that it is impossible to get answers when you ask questions. I have a simple question: what are the costs and consequences of taking this whole reorganisation – that is, the overall picture of the reorganisation – within the current resource base?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4639	In the case of investment costs, they are well explained. It's about both Haacon Protection and Rena. It's almost 300 million. SEK in Haakonsvern and SEK 108 million. Dr. Rena. When it comes to putting the Marine Commander on national alert from 1 August, we have also described that we can get back to it in the budgetary process, but the figure is 3.4 million for the current year. kr. With regard to the central management, there is a great deal of a change in the management of the business that is there today. It won't be the same people necessarily -- it could be part of them, but not necessarily, because it could be some other tasks. We've also said that if it's going to do more, it has to be possible to take it off resources elsewhere in the defense. It should really be happy that we can do it. This is about being able to run the defense effectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4646	The council said she was busy preventing negative media reviews, and that this was something you worked for the whole time. I'm not going to touch alerts, but creating a good culture – which I talked about in my post – is also about leadership. It's not just making a simple decision. Does the Council agree that it is also her responsibility that processes go so that people feel included, that you have openness in processes, and that you might tolerate a few negative headlines in the media, just people feel that they have been taken seriously?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4651	I agree with the representative, Skei Grande, that culture is very important, and that there is something you have to show in all terms. I take very seriously the signals that came that someone was not satisfied with the process. Others were very satisfied, but some were not satisfied. That is why I have tried to be inclusive after the department got this case from the head of defence. I've traveled to the different departments, talked to trustees and talked to leaders. The proposal we have now put forward is correct about a new business management, but it is not a dramatic reorganization. The two departments will remain the same as before. That is exactly why I have tried to make a proposal that also reflects the views that have been expressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4658	A point has been made through speeches by the Chair that the Marine Hunters’ Command should be on national alert and that it is one of the arguments for this change to take place. Then my question is: does the Council of State believe that it is not possible to put MJK on a national alert without the proposed change of organisation?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4663	It's not that it's a condition to do a reorganization. But when we propose this reorganization into one area of activity, it is more predictable to make it easier to use the common resources in a good way, to adjust, to know what resources you have, to know what level of skills you have, to know who can stand by at any time, and who, for example, can. shall be assigned to other tasks. So it's not just national preparedness for these special forces. They also have primary defence tasks, but the special forces are very important when something special happens, where they are a strategic resource for a management. Therefore, it is important both to be able to develop them in the right direction and to have good management of resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4668	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4671	When the Stortinget today gives the government permission to order six fighter planes, it is very important for the upgrading of the Norwegian fighter aircraft. F-35 will gradually replace F-16 from 2017, and Norway will then receive one of the most modern fighter aircraft in the world. In line with the good defence and industrial tradition of the current government, there is a great deal of emphasis on the acquisition of defence by the industry at home. Norway's predictability in the combat aircraft process and the fighter aircraft program makes us a credible partner for the US authorities. It is also important for industrial cooperation. Not long ago, the committee met with the head of the fighter aircraft program, Lieutenant General Bogdan. He stressed that after the programme was reviewed in 2010, it was more efficient and that the timetable set remains. This was also confirmed by the Department of Defence this weekend through a look-up in the Financial Times, where they confirmed that the aircraft will be ready for use in conflict by the end of 2015, and that the costs are now falling. During the meeting with the Committee, Lieutenant General Bogdan also gave very positive signals that his recommendation to the US authorities is to integrate JSM on the fighter plane. The rest of the partner countries have, as you know, accepted it, but the formal approval remains. It is planned to take place at a meeting in Turkey for the autumn. The acquisition of the defence shall be entrusted to the Norwegian industry. The defence industry is strategically important for Norway and contributes to significant technological breakthroughs that also have civil uses. There are many examples. The defence market is closed. All 99 pst. of all Americans consume defence equipment, purchased internally in the United States. The job that the government has done in facilitating and working with the defence and industry in Team Norway has meant that Norwegian industry is both considered for contracts and given assignments. So far, it has a value of 2.2 billion. kr. That's a good start. Then we all agree that there is still a lot to be done. Our clear ambition is that the objective of industrial cooperation is to ensure a national value creation over time of the same magnitude as the purchase price of the aeroplanes. That is approx. 62 B.C.E. kr. The downgrading underlines that industrial contracts are to be signed before the purchase contract of aircraft is concluded. There are three main areas that are important for Norway — firstly, the APEX ammunition, secondly, the integration and sale of JSM, and thirdly, the development of a European maintenance solution. Such a solution is important both operationally and industrially. Norwegian industry can also obtain significant contracts in this market. I've had fun picking up a quote from former Minister of Defense Kristin Krohn Devold. Before the 2005 elections, we heard her say that she feared a fury from the defence industry if the red-greens came to power. At the same time, the NHO wrote a letter to the Ministry of Defence in the autumn of 2004. It said: ‘We now experience that FD generally refuses to enter into close and committed cooperation with the defence industry. [[Ministry of Defence]] [[...]] The role of the FD in authority is provided for, is missing, thereby making the defence industry harm.» So that's what the NHO said under the Right regime. It must be painful for today's opposition that Krohn Devold was so thoroughly wrong. Red-green active authority role is in stark contrast to the nutritional neutrality of the right-hand side. In combination with a wish from the Right and the Advance Party to sell down, among others. in the Kongsberg Group we understand that there is a great difference between the Labour Party's position on the defence industry and the Right – when they were in government. It is good that the Right now, after eight years of opposition, is in a position to confirm at their national meeting that they are for repurchase. It's the first time they've got it in their big-time election program. However, I am more concerned about evaluating parties according to what they do, and not what they say.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4700	At first, I would like to pay tribute to the representative Skei Grande, who made a very good contribution on management and management culture. As for what she said, there are some things in this room that should be remembered – if there may be a call. Attack is the best defense. It is clearly the strategy that Sverre Myrli is pursuing in this matter. I can understand that to some extent. But it doesn't do what he argues with, so much better for that reason. To claim that the feedback and answers to the Committee’s questions — and the Committee asked many, thorough and detailed questions — were adequate is a rather thin claim. An attempt has been made here to draw a glossy image. I think what the gloss picture is going to fade. We are concerned with predictability, the Council of State said in its answer to my question. There is just predictability The size is also concerned — predictability and quality of the decisions taken in this room. The quality is non-existent as regards the argumentation for the organisation of the special forces to which it is added here. There are no cost analyses or quality analyses here. Then the predictability we depend on in order to make the right decisions here in the hall is not present. We want to be sure that the decisions we make are the right ones. We want the soldiers who are out of service every day to feel that security is continuous – from this room out into the operational service they are going to do every day. We received confirmation from the Council of State that MJK can be put on counter-terrorism preparedness, without having to do this organisational change. It was also an argument on which the rapporteur put great emphasis in his speech. One would be very disadvantaged if this were to destroy MJK’s ability to contribute to the preparedness – if you were to base that argument. I want to talk a little bit about repurchase agreements. It is interesting that you try to get high and dark and will send a greeting home about these repurchase agreements. Yes, it is as a premise, but the result so far is not to shout for and hit the bell with. But we can hope that in a few years' time the result will be far better than what we see today. It is also important for us in the Progress Party to say that the government has always been clear that, in relation to the amount of investment for the F35 programme, the estimates are kept. We know that there is a great deal of uncertainty about that programme – this will last for many years. Being as sure as that government expresses here, it's going to be an interesting exercise to follow in the years that come. We remind ourselves that it is given a very clear confirmation from the government that that will be the case. But, as I said, the pheasant we can't put two lines under yet. Finally, I would like to say that, as our first proposal fell, we will support proposal No. 3 of case No. 25-digit number
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4720	I also want to recommend Trine Skei Grande's posts, and so does the representative Staahle's posts. It's because the defense is an important part of the public sector. By nature, military power is completely different from other organizations in the country. This is precisely why high demands must be made for both civil and military leadership in the defence. A few years ago, today's government sent out a press release on alerts. The title was «Strengthened protection for alerts». The government decided that the warning “is both lawful and desirable”. I think we can say a lot about today's Minister of Defence's involvement in the matter we have to deal with today, but a lot indicates that the alerts have not got any particular hint of protection. This is very unfortunate. We know that many of these issues have been revealed, in favour of Norwegian democracy, transparency and the strength this should have when alerting people about critical circumstances. Then the opposition is accused of asking questions. In connection with the world’s thinnest propositions, with organisational changes that should have been dealt with a year ago, when the Stortinge had been dealing with the long-term defence plan, and in particular with a look back at the history – the closure of HV16, July 22, etc. – the opposition is accused of asking questions. I record that the position in Stortinget, despite the world's thinnest proposition, has not found it appropriate to ask one single question. On the other hand, alerts are being attacked. The representative of Lundtigen today finds it convenient to go to the front-line attack on the Ombudsman for Defence. This shows that when the position blames the opposition for games, and this is a pattern, you move on a very syllable ice. If there is some department, some institution that needs critical review after October 2013, I should at least remember that these are a few of the fields where a new government has to endure strong and thorough transparency. It doesn't last – when we're facing an investment that's huge, a flight purchase that's going to have life costs of 235 billion. 2013-kr – that we have a government fraction that does not find any reason to ask one single question about how to manage the operation of the Defense. One starts a repair of something that works best in the Norwegian defence saying that this is required and necessary. I think it's a little strange that in a matter like this, you don't find any reason to listen to trustees in the Defense – all the protests that come, the views of moving management out of a branch, a department. We have a strength that needs to be managed ‘hands on’ in the sharpest situations. We have a proposition for treatment today where we have a miscellaneous item that represents 25 pst. on the basis of today's decision-making framework. Of 12.9 billion kr you operate with a miscellaneous item of 3 billion. kr. You have calmed down all the time that all the questions will be answered safely. One has had a — until the negrustic — admiration of the management of Lockheed Martin. The opposition has had no other means of service than the information provided by the Ministry in these cases. I register that the Lockheed Martin management was fired – was phased out – not very long ago, and a new spokesman named Bogdan has been appointed. If you're going to criticise someone for the fact that the post regarding industrial agreements and repurchases has come no further than today, you have to go further into the closet than looking for the then Minister of Defense Kristin Krohn Devold. Then you have to go in your own wardrobe and ask yourself the question: why haven't you achieved more than what you can do today?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4735	What is initially described in this setting is an authorisation for the purchase of fighter aircraft and associated equipment, as well as proposals for some concrete investments in property, construction and construction, and also a proposal to strengthen our special forces. I would also like to take the opportunity to highlight that both government and magnification must follow up our agreed long-term defence plan with the necessary investments – we are now doing so in a exemplary way. This means that we are developing one of Europe’s most modern and organised response defenses, with the main objective of meeting new challenges both nationally and internationally. We now have a balanced response, with a high operational capability and with improvements in operationality and activity year after year, we have now seen. This is precisely because we have made good, organized and proper choices. I have to say that with the crude ointment that the representative Ivar Kristiansen came along now, one would think it was just darkness and misery around us. But these are facts, as well as European and international researchers and others say clearly that Norway is an exemplary example of how we get to the conversion of defence. Unfortunately, following plans adopted with the necessary funds and investments has not always been done by the former governments. There has been some focus on the future organisation of our special forces over a period of time. I believe and believe that we have come up with a sensible solution to the government's proposals. From our point of view, it is clear that the two tactical Special Forces departments should remain the same today, and for the future they will be located on Rena/Vealös and Haakonsvern/Ramsund respectively. The special forces shall continue to maintain their close links with the respective defence sectors. At the same time, it implies that selection, basic training and basic training of officers and officers are to continue to take place in the two departments, as at present. With regard to the establishment of a joint management of the special forces, I would like to point out that this facilitates improvements and coordination in areas such as preparedness, training and exercises. In addition, it will enhance the ability of an overall priority and resource use. Finally, I would like to conclude that we are in the current budget proposal for the Defence Agency, Prop. 1 S for 2012–2013, referred to defence unit helicopters in a chapter. Reference is made to a study on a possible national helicopter competence centre. In my opinion, this could be a very central theme of the time to come. Here it is said that one will emphasize training of military and civil pilots and crews. The proposition points to a potential for the future, a centre with both military and civil simulator capabilities is precisely what could satisfy the military and civil need for training for helicopter operators both nationally and internationally. Here we see the possibility of a win-win situation for all parties. The Sola/Stavanger helicopter environment thus points out to such a national centre of competence. This environment has a strong position both nationally and internationally. I am therefore looking forward to a follow-up to this matter in the time that is coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4752	After so much discussion around the process, I will allow myself to use my contribution only on what is the reality of the matter relating to the reorganisation of the special forces, and also the investments related to this, for the simple reason that I am quite so convinced that the decisions of the Stortinget today are being invited to make are quite correct. It is particularly important that the Marine Hunters’ Command is now put on national alert to assist the police in resolving counter-terrorism tasks. That's right. It is also correct and necessary to establish a joint strategic management that will contribute to good synergies between the two Special Forces Departments of the Defence – the Special Command/The Army's Hunter Command and the Marine Hunter Command. This is also how the government, in my opinion, follows good advice from both professionals and NATO, which, in its 2008 study – NATO Special Operations Forces Study – points out the crucial importance of a clear and clear management anchored at the strategic level. There are recommendations we have seen in several areas regarding this type of activity. The recommendation that NATO also makes about overall governance and that the management element has direct access to military and political management is, in my opinion, very well followed up with the grips the government and the defence minister are now doing. The necessary cross-priority required in the management of such capacities, which must be said to be absolutely limited, is absolutely necessary and well justified by what is now proposed. Then I'd also like to add: the special forces' capacity has impressed me. During several visits, including: on Rena, in cooperation with the police emergency team and during training, there is reason to give credit to all those who make up this capacity today. They are highly competent and, not least, they are considered highly competent to adapt their use of power to the situations that may arise. Their activities are marked by realism and reason, and a great understanding of the delineation of their use of power – which I experience as perhaps one of the most important things to have an understanding of. The change in organisation now proposed will, in my view, give a deserved boost to the authority, importance and importance of these forces. It provides a better basis for optimal coordination and resource use, which we absolutely need. The maintenance of the location, with joint management, facilitates the joint development of the forces and synergies between the forces in terms of training, exercises and preparedness. This is done at the same time as the forces can maintain their close links with their respective sectors of defence, and the selection, basic training and basic training of officers and officers will continue to take place in the departments, as at present. Nevertheless, joint management will – more than today – set common professional standards and develop common techniques and procedures. This will also ensure, as the Ministry says in its response to the Committee, ‘greater flexibility in the use of forces’. Such flexibility is necessary with such a limited resource as the special forces are in fact, and will give us greater operational capability. After all, it's the most important thing. Moreover, it is gratifying that today we will also adopt a strengthening of the location and storage capacity of the special forces, among other things. Located on the river Rena in the Østerdalen. To put the special forces located in Rena in good condition for airborne deployment, it is good that the economy is now ensured in order to build a traditional industrial building for drop and parachute equipment related to the airport at Rena – a good and proper investment. There will be room for rigging, packing and drying cargo, as well as storage capacity for droplets and parachutes. These are also measures that help to strengthen the capacity we are talking about. The investment in Haakonsvern has the same argument — once again a good example of the fact that it is essential for the government parties to constantly increase and strengthen the capacity and capacity of the forces. All in all, this is therefore a day when the special forces come out strengthened, and we welcome this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4773	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4776	The runway in Bodø is in poor condition. It became very clear when the then head of Bodø Main Aviation Station in June 2012 came to a meeting about future opportunities in the city. With him he had a concrete lump of approx. 40 cm times 20 cm times 15 cm, which he put on the table. He said, "This is part of the runway in Bodø, which we picked up this morning." It is therefore imperative to correct the flight strip in such a way that safety and operational regulation can be maintained. Bodø Main Aviation Station is not only a military aerodrome, it is also the sixth largest airport in the country, measured in terms of passengers. Let me stress that the proposed solution in Bodø is necessary to remedy the acute situation. The staging has decided that Bodø Main Aviation Station shall be shut down. In this context, it is essential to be able to ensure an appropriate transition from military operations and ownership to an ordinary civil airport. The solution being sanctioned here today ensures that one has some time to find the long-term solutions for the further development of the airport at Bodø. I noticed that the government in Meldning. St. 26 for 2012–2013, National Transport Plan 2014–2023, will initiate a process to put in place a long-term solution for civil aviation in Bodø, and therefore responsibility for making a seamless transition between military and civil authorities. In this transition, I am sure that the defense will also help Bodø Municipality to dispose of the available land quickly, so that the closure of the air station does not impose unnecessary restrictions on the further development of the city. Preparedness and counter-terrorism have been high on the political agenda since 22 July 2011. The county has 25 pst. of the shoreline of the country and sea areas with high value creation, and also high potential for further value creation. It is therefore natural that the marine hunters are also stationed in Ramsund, northern state. By putting the Marine Hunters' Command on standby to assist the police, North Norway will also have a strengthened capacity. The Marines in Ramsund together with the helicopter capacity in Bardufoss will contribute to increased safety and security in the north. It is an objective to develop the ability of defence to assist civil society in crisis situations. The government will, among other things, establish a common area of activity of the special forces in order to ensure coordination between them. I assume that the selection, basic training and the production of strength will take place in the two special departments, as today. The Marines, who have a maritime special competence, depend on close and close cooperation with the rest of the Maritime Defense. It will be essential that this cooperation can also be carried out in a future organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4792	I have to reply briefly to the representative, Trine Skei Grande, who claimed that I had proceduralised the above-mentioned alert case. I do not know how many times I said that the claims that have been made should be taken seriously. I actually spent quite a while on it in my post, and then I had one sentence where I said something like that, and it's also serious if the claims are not correct. Now I have gone through my manuscript one more time and do not find that I have said something that can be interpreted as the representative Trine Skei Grande said. But if I did, I'm sorry about this, right now, because it wasn't my idea that I was going to charge the alerts. I repeat: the alert case is serious, and the case and the alerts are to be treated seriously. The representative of the Ellingen called for more detailed dossiers. At the same time, he talks about bringing together the two Special Force Divisions. There must be reason to ask what the representative Ellingen should do with thicker propositions, when he obviously does not even read the three-quarters since he referred to today. There is no aggregation of the two departments. There shall be two departments, but they shall have joint management. I have never claimed, even if someone has said so, that it is not possible to put the Marine Hunter Command on standby without there being a common direction for the two departments. But I argued in my post that a postponement could create challenges, and I think we're on a safer footing if we do the reorganisation. I'm absolutely sure it's easier to get the Marines ready if we now make the organizational changes that are proposed. One has to remember that these two departments have to work together – that's one of the ways of thinking. Both departments depend on what we call collaborative resources, which are currently scarce: helicopter support, transport aircraft, etc. Of course, it'll be easier to do this if the two departments can train and practice together and we are given an overall priority and an overall use of the resources. That must be the point: two units that can work together — better use of resources. I am convinced that this is the best way to raise the status of the Marines, as well as to put them on standby as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4801	It was the representative of Skei Grande that made me take a new post. She said that the central workers' party people disagreed with the closure of HV-016 and that there was criticism of the closure of HV-016. Yes, it was, it was criticism from central workers, it was disunity, but it was decided. Decisions were taken that would not have been taken if the government had disagreed with the Council of State. The representative Skei Grande said that the Ombudsman’s presentation of the defence in document 5 was only a function of the debate in the main hall. My assessment is that there is something far more. In document 5, the Ombudsman, as head of the Ombudsman’s defence department, has gone far beyond his role when deciding during 2013 on the legality of the decision to close the HV-016. Little about the terms «Ombudsman» and «Ombudsman’s Name of Defence»: the Ombudsman of the Defence is a man, Kjell Arne Bratli, but he is also the head of the Ombudsman’s name, with a total of seven members, including three former payroll representatives of the Workers’ Party, one former payroll representative of the Right and three alternates, one for the Workers’ Party, one for the Progress Party and one for the Right – an ombudsman who should know the rules of the game. Right Ivar Kristiansen makes strong claims. There are great demands for military leadership – yes, seafaringly. A desire to strengthen the protection of the warnings – yes, seafaringly. From my side there is no attack on the alerts. The representative, Kristiansen, says that the leadership of the defense has not listened to those elected to trust. It is according to my assessment error. The Ombudsman’s report on the activities from 1 January 2012 to 31 December 2012 has been transmitted to the Stortinget. My question is, have seven former staging representatives really approved the text of Document 5 that has been sent to Stortinget? I am waiting for a further explanation on that matter. With regard to the organisation of the special forces, there is also a case in the control committee. There are nine e-mails to the Council of State that have not been posted before in retrospect. The state councils have regretted this. I thought it was sufficient, but new questions have been sent, and a new answer has also been sent from the Council of State. Whether the opposition really believes that this is a further matter, I expect the opposition to ask for consultation before the summer holiday, so that the matter can be clarified further.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4812	The discussion about the organisation of our special forces caused concern both in the Defense and in Bergen, how much fear that the Marine Hunters' Command would be moved from Haakonsvern. But the result of the processes is today given consent by Stortinget. Strengthening national preparedness. The Marine Hunter Command shall be put on national alert. A common strategic direction will strengthen our special forces. New building mass will provide better training conditions for the strengths. I take the alarm messages from trustees in the Marine Hunter Command and other parts of the Marine Defense in the greatest seriousness. I would therefore like to commend the Council of State for having also done so in this case, and for having held a number of meetings and conversations with those who have expressed themselves critically about reorganization. But being heard and listening doesn't mean you get everything you want. The result of the process is that the location is to be like today and that selection, basic training and basic training of officers and officers are to continue in the departments as at present. Both the building investment and the special force organisation involve the continuation of the government's heavy investment in the Marine. This is primarily good for the country, our defence capabilities and our preparedness. I fully agree with the representative, Mr Valen, who points out that the first and foremost objective of defence is that we must have both defence and preparedness, but these kinds of ringing effects are also important and good for Bergen, the host municipality of the marine base. In this area, too, government policy is a policy that is both good for the country and that provides growth and development for our part of the country in the west.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4819	I redrawed because I couldn't let go when the representative Ivar Kristiansen asked me to go further into the closet if I wasn't satisfied with this government's efforts in fighting aircraft industry contracts. First of all, I can assure the representative Kristiansen that I have not thought into any wardrobe – either because I need to bathe or to steal someone's clothes – but I would be happy to give Kristiansen even newer examples than when Kristin Krohn Devold was Minister of Defence. I can go to the whole story, St.meld. No 38 for 2006–2007, which was the background to the current government document, and which is based on strategic cooperation between defence and industry. Then the setting of St.meld No. 38 for 2006-2007 was being debated in Stortinget, said Højres Jan Petersen, who was then the head of the Defence Committee: ‘One is that, as stated in the suspension, I am enough of those who are more sceptical about the repurchase institution than there are very many others.’ In the setting, the & RMB; & RMB; & RMB; & RMB; & RMB; & RMB; & RMB; & RMB; & RMB; & RMB; & RMB; & RMB; ‘This member considers that many questions can be raised about how defence equipment is acquired and, in particular, about the repurchase system.’ I can also show that in the same comments, the Right argued against lowering the limit when large acquisitions of defence require repurchase. The government's proposal was as well known to go down from 75 million. NOK 50 million. kr. It argued the right-hand side. It is also a fact that the right has not mentioned the word repurchase a single time in its major election programme or in its principal programme for the current enlargement period, nor in a single word in the current defence industry programme. This applies until now in 2013. The Labour Party has a solid tradition of large acquisitions into the Defence Force contributing to increased value creation in Norway. We do that both through repurchase agreements and now through what I would call Team Norway, where the Secretary of Defense heads a team to open doors in the special US defence market so that Norwegian defence industry companies can enter into positions and compete in contracts. In addition, I can conclude by saying that it was the government of Stoltenberg that got Norway into the European Defence Agency through its own association agreement in 2006, which the Bondevik government had not succeeded in, and today we are among the most active in defence cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4838	It was the intervention of the representative Ivar Kristiansen that made me ask for the floor. First, just two words about the charge I feel he has advanced to the Council of State when it came to the warnings, which according to what Kristiansen said, has not received any protection. When you select a channel for your alert to be posted, you cannot expect the protection you could get if you had chosen another channel that the Defense has. The Council of State has now been criticized, and she has complained that the e-mail was not filed before, because it should have been, but she cannot both be accused of not reporting it and of having it filed. Kristiansen, and so far Ellingen, too, was very concerned about the flight purchase. The Ellings were worried if the technology would be ready in time and if we would get the planes when we wanted to. Ivar Kristiansen strongly criticized the fact that the repurchase program had not come any further. He expressed himself in a way that makes you almost have to ask: Is right for the flight purchase, or are you not? I think Kristiansen should clarify that. With regard to what he called Lundtigen's attack on the Ombudsman, Lundtigen has answered himself and is fully capable of doing so, but I just have to say that when it comes to assessing whether what we are doing with the special forces – and to what extent else – I have more confidence in the head of defence when it comes to assessing what improves the operational capacity of the defence than the Ombudsman. Ivar Kristiansen warned about major cleaning needs in the Ministry of Defence if there was to be a government change after 2013, but if there was any place there was a need to clear after 2005, then it was in the Ministry of Defence. The change that started in 2001 was extensive, and that it did not go on the rails from day one, I think we should have a great understanding of it. But what you left on the Right was that one of the last three weeks before Christmas you suddenly discovered that you had spent 1 billion. I have not been granted NOK Now we have a defense that uses no more than they have been granted, that delivers efficiency as intended, and where it is ‘order and peace’. We have a very effective defense, which Tore Nordtun described in his post.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4856	Let me start with the simplest first: if, during my first post, I told you to merge the special forces, of course, it's wrong. There, Mr Myrli is quite right, of course I should not have said that. Let me also pay tribute to the summary from the representative Storberget, who says that the important thing now is to take care of the capacities we have and use them as best as possible. No one disagrees with it, but you disagree with the methodology you have chosen and how you have chosen to organise it. And then there's been a debate here on the history of the HV-016 case. As I remember it, there was a case that came on the table after the evening post blew that the head of defense had an ambition to liquidate HV-016. And remember, there was an extraordinary meeting in Stortinget where you had a review of what had happened. Once again, I will give the representative Lundtigen the right: after this was dealt with in the Stortinget, a decision was taken that sanctioned what the head of defence had been calling for. But the whole point was that it was Stortinget who did it. The Home Protection Act is adopted and amended by the Stortinget. That's what the Storting did, by having an extraordinary meeting here. When it comes to the playback of this, we might remember a little bit differently. When we talk about budgeting and success security: I may have been wrong in the four years I've been in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy, but we have, of course, had quite a number of issues where there has been a need for quite substantial budget changes. With regard to the exposure today, I said – probably another mistake that I said in my first post – that there was a change of 30 pst. It's actually a change of 100 pst. So the hit safety is a little bit variable here. I think when you want to sum up this four-year period, there'll be a lot of good things. But there will also be a number of things about the defence ministers' way of dealing with it, and not least about the role of the defence manager. I believe the change in HV-016 is one of those things. I mean the public attack – by doing it in the media – from a defence minister and the head of defense on the statements of some of the people we have in Afghanistan, not necessarily good management. If you feel the need to correct the course, I think you should take it internally, precisely because a good leader is with his crew, even when it's difficult. Correction is necessary, but it's about finding a channel where it's smart to do it. I also believe that the matter – through the consideration of the long-term plan and the professional-military council – shows clear nuances between what the head of defence wants, and what the minister thinks is possible and wise. It's also said that we might have to have that dynamics. Finally, in the case of the special forces: not to have a merger, but to create a new unit for them, it shows that there have been great differences in what you think is smart. The majority today concludes, I respect that. However, I do not consider this case to have been dealt with.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4875	The chairman of the committee had a little visit to me, which I have to answer. This concerns so-called QRA and forward fighter base in the north. I understood that she criticised me for not mentioning the matter in my file. I did not do it because I do not understand that there is any disagreement about the matter. I can only establish what is stated in the proposition: a main base is to be established in the Orland, and a forward base is to be established in the north, located to Evenes, which was otherwise right-wing at the time of last year's treatment. The decision of the magistrate shall be annexed. The size did not say anything about the year in which it is to be built in Bodø and built on the island and on Evenes. The Storting has to come back to that, which is also in the proposition. This is a complicated puzzle game. When the Inspector General of the Air Force tells the Ministry of Defence that building too early in Bodø is a problem, we must of course take it seriously. We need to find good solutions for the islands, Bodø and Evenes. But I repeat, the decision is pending. An advanced operation base shall be established at Evenes. I think it's nice that the committee chairman reads my statements to the newspapers, but I think she could also read a little about what her own parties say to the newspapers. The rapporteur in Evenes – as far as I know, he is also head of state in the Northland Right – Jardar Jensen, speaking under the heading: Preparing a rematch. So he wants to base on Evenes faster and build faster in Bodø. The day after, on June 7, Ivar Kristiansen is out in Avisa Nordland under the title ‘New Government Can Make a New Fight’. The message from Ivar Kristiansen – which is for information the committee leader's party trap in the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee here in Stortinget – is that he is for longer operation in Bodø and not to build up so quickly on Evenes. On the same day, Ivar Kristiansen's alternate to Stortinget, the rapporteur on Andøya, is from the Right, outside and criticises and says that it is the government that is putting up for rematch – while Ivar Kristiansen warns that a new majority, if any, will be rematched. So three central right-wing representatives in the Nordic countries have three different messages for three newspapers two days in a row. I'm at least saying the same thing to all the newspapers, even though the committee chairman is not satisfied with what I say. In this case, I rely more on the committee chairman's assurances when dealing with the long-term plan of defence for a year, saying that the Right does not want a rematch in these matters. [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]] It's accountability.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4886	Being a magnificent representative means that a sudden one-night hour will give you the opportunity to listen to a debate on a matter that you don't follow as closely every day. I want to follow up on what the representative Tore Nordtun said about a national centre of competence for simulators. I belong to those who have a yellow note inside the proposition and have followed the plan for the long term – and also when the budgets are to follow up year after year. A pilot study, launched in 2010, pointed out that a possible national helicopter competence centre is predicting a market to establish a helicopter simulator in Norway to train both military and civilian pilots and crew. It has also been said that one has led the establishment and operation of a helicopter simulator in Norway to be carried out by commercial operators, with civil and military helicopter operators as customers and in possible Nordic cooperation. I know from the transport sector how important quantity training is. I want to underline what Tore Nordtun was into, the environment that is established in the Sun, and that has actually strengthened itself year after year – both with history of oil and gas, with rescue and preparedness and the knowledge that it provides to facilitate quantity training. At a time when we focus on security and preparedness, both civil and military, I would also like to stress that I know that it is not only people who listen to this debate from their offices – there are many who follow with interest in how the government follows up just this. I hope we get an answer soon.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4895	For approx. One year ago, with very strong reason, you chose to shut down Bodø Main Air Station. Also at that time the opposition warned about the human and economic consequences. This was rendered completely immaterial. Unfortunately, today we can well say what we said, but it does not help the situation of the military's operational capability. Since the position has a lot of people in communication who sit and work with quotations, it is well known – with reference to both the head of defence and the leadership of the Air Force – that the opposition is as concerned today as it was one year ago about the loss of competence and the flight of personnel resulting from the closure in Bodø. This is where Myrli's representative has been quite cryptic. He takes the signals from the Chief of Defense and the Air Force's management literally and says that closure in Bodø will be difficult from 2016. On the question 'Does it mean that Espen Barth Eide didn't know what he did last June?' from the newspaper Forward answers Myrli: ‘I hope so, but it has been one year and the plan has proved difficult to implement.’ At least it has been achieved to frustrate the highest level of competence in Bodø plus to frustrate the leader of the Northland Right, the rapporteur at Evenes in Ofoten, who had expectations. The unclear now is operational preparedness, where QRA will be ported, and when it will be operational for the future. I allowed myself to quote from the government's own press release about the alert. I now register that the representative Svein Roald Hansen believes it is difficult and complicated to take care of the alerts because of the department's archival system – or lack of archival system – for e-mail addresses. Svein Roald Hansen probably knows very well that we have supported the fighter flight purchase from day one, but we have had to ask many, many questions. Only the operation of new fighter aircraft receives an annual plus bill of 400 million. 2013-kronor. This money doesn't exist today. In addition, funding should be found at a lifetime cost of 235 billion. kr. It is not just to pinch your fingers in order to make room for this within the current budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4909	There are several people who have been involved in this with industrial contracts, and I just want to say again that the government is working very hard for industrial contracts and for the Norwegian industry to succeed. We're very privileged to have a very good defence industry. It's not a very broad industry, but there's a very high level of competence where it is, and we also see great international interest, especially for JSM and APEX ammunition from Nammo. In other areas, too, it's very promising, and we're really working hard on it because we're concerned that the Norwegian industry will get back for the investments we're making. I just want to say once again that when we speed up investment in fighter aircraft, it is also positive in terms of industry and being able to get contracts. To the representative of Kristiansen, I just have to say that it is very important to stress that Evenes has been chosen as a new base for QRA – it stands firm. In addition, when we look at Ramsund, Evenes and also the KJK environment in Harstad, it is a good environment that can be developed further to provide us with even better preparedness in the future, both for defence and for civil society. Both the representative Nordtun and the representative Meltveit Kleppa talked about helicopter and simulator training. Clearly, simulator is an important tool for helicopters. For the time being, the defense has an agreement with the rest of the world about it. I just want to say again to the representative Staahle that one thing is what is technically going on in terms of preparedness, another thing is what is good and forward-looking. The representative Sverre Myrli very much underlined why it was so important to be coordinated — not combined — on joint resources in the area of special forces. That's exactly that, you need special forces on a national preparedness, you need to know both the training standard, how the training is done, and that it's the resources that are also needed from civil society to get this done.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4920	It's late, and then the threshold is lowered to think a little bit loud. Everything we've been discussing tonight is very important, and this must not be interpreted as criticism by any of those who have participated in the debate tonight – I think that is quite sincere. I'm doing some thinking. I'm pretty new to this committee, I came in a little over a year ago. The field is new to me. But the starting point must be that Norway is one country. Our defence is the whole defence of Norway. It's one of the most important and heaviest questions we can deal with in Stortinget, and it's different in nature from most of the other policies we work with. What we are discussing tonight are investments to safeguard our defence capabilities at a time when our neighbourhoods, for example. increases in strategic importance and will do so in the foreseeable future. We have an interest in maintaining a defunct, peaceful and primarily civil sovereignty in the north with the ability to defend ourselves in the back. How we then dimension and organize our defence is a matter that requires a lot of thorough debate, and the decisions we take must be in line with our security policy interests. The fact that our decision base is a mosaic of different motivations and is influenced by which states we represent, and which parties we sit here for, doesn't change that. Last week we had a presentation and a debate on Mali, the security situation, the political and humanitarian situation in the Sahel region and our contribution to MINUSMA. There was a broad debate, where the Stortinge sought to discuss the whole picture and the context. That was a very useful debate for that very reason. The debate we have now is perhaps the longest and greatest debate we have had in the field of defence since we discussed the long-term plan of defence last year, and I must admit that both this debate and the debate on the long-term plan of defence last year took up almost all aspects of our defence policy other than the basic security policy premises and challenges we face. I think that's just a cross of thought I was going to mention, and we should maybe try to discuss it a little bit wider next time. I don't have any specific suggestions here and now, but I suspect that several share my opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4931	I don't really want to extend the debate, but right-wing speakers are pretty much in their use of words. Ivar Kristiansen even claimed to be cryptic. It's possible, at least it wasn't the intention – I think I'm quite clear in my statements. Let's just recapitulate a little bit. So it was the chief of defense in his professional military council that suggested that the new fighter planes be operated from one main base and that it should be Ørland. There was no one sitting on a dark backroom on the Stortinget and cooking together, it was the proposal of the defense chief, and a proposal the government went ahead and promoted on to the Stortinget. But then the Stortinget – on a proposal from the government – also decided that we have to have fighter aircraft stationed in North Norway. Thus, it was also decided that a forward-looking operation base would be built in the north, located to Evenes. That was the background. I remember that it was a large majority who decided that we should have one main base and that it should be in the Ørland. I even think the Right voted for it, if I'm not wrong. We're going to have the standby, we're going to have the QRA readiness in Bodø until Evenes is able to take over that preparedness. This isn't about what's best for Bodø, or what's best for Evenes. This is what is best for Norway, for Norway’s defences, for Norway’s air defence and for our preparedness. This is a complicated puzzle game, but I'm absolutely sure we have to find very good solutions. I respect the fact that Ivar Kristiansen and his head of state in Right of Northland communicate two different messages to different local authorities, and that a third central trust elected in the same party in the same state communicates the third message. It's law, and it's okay, but then it's not possible to criticize those of us who have a message, and that message was the same last year as it is, and that's the same message no matter which journalist in which local way calls us.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4942	The representative, Jan Arild Ellingsen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4945	I record the recent presentation by the representative of the background to professional-military advice. I think he is quite right that it was the head of defence who recommended this to the Minister of Defence. At the same time, it is also a fact that the Council of Defence Chiefs received from the Air Force Inspector-General — based on what was best for security policy — was not necessarily the same as what was proposed by the Defence Manager. If you're going to define the story and the truth, you should tell the whole truth. In the case of the debate, which was too much. One year ago — on opportunities both in the north and in the south — there were quite a number of speakers who pointed out the challenges of a move, a challenge that has now become a fact, because it was assumed that many of those employed in Bodø would move to the Ørland or Evenes. That hasn't happened yet, has it? That's the problem today, which, as far as I understand, makes you consider making a change. But the right should be right, and the fact should be fact.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4952	There have been a few important clarifications during the debate. One is that the government has the full opportunity and opportunity to put the Marine Hunters' Command on national alert independently of a major reorganization of the Special Forces. I think it is important to emphasise this, because it was initially assumed from the case-rapporteur that any return would result in that it could not happen. I am pleased that the Minister of Defence has so clearly cleared up. In addition, I think it is good that a number of people have also given praise to our Special Forces Environments. We have two very strong and good world-class specialty environments that deliver both outside – when in operations – and also FSK/HJK when they solve missions at home in support of the police. We all agree that investment in construction is needed, and that the Marine Hunters' Command should be on national alert – that is what we are assuming. The question we've been asking ourselves is whether the major reorganisation is necessary and whether it might increase preparedness. We have not seen things that make it visible, and therefore believe that it is not necessary. When we have two such good environments, a clear operational gain has to be made visible in order to make such a major reorganization worthwhile. It is obvious that the realities of QRA – Evenes – Bodø are now beginning to sink across government parties. That's totally okay for us. We think it's good, and we even write in the setting that it is necessary to do exactly what the Inspector General of the Air Force and the Head of Defence recommend. It is a little strange that the government parties do not find it worth writing about this in the settings. They're actually making a change – with regard to the letter of implementation that's been sent out – about shifting the establishment of QRA at Evenes in time. I will also draw attention to the debate we had almost exactly one year ago in this Chamber – 14 June – on the long-term defence plan. Then it was chattered in breadth and depth over those parts of the Stortinget that thought there could be a risk of loss of competence, and that it could be problematic to move from Bodø immediately. We would rather have an alternative to continue the QRA in Bodø – instead of evens. Now it turns out that the very things we're warning about are what's happening. Then I think that a little humility in the government parties might have solved a lot of situations.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4963	I'm actually a little surprised when the head of the committee -- who's as familiar with the defense as she actually is, and does a huge job in both traveling around and visiting the defense -- can't see the difference between what actually technically goes on, and what can be wise and right in the long term. Then it's important that we manage to organise the special forces so that you can actually use them together, that you can have a training standard that you can have, that you see the resources together, and not least that you use these special forces together in the field of external training. That's what hasn't been done up until now, and that's what's important that we actually manage to do. When it comes to the great reorganisation that we are now doing, I have to say that MJK is going to be in Bergen, and they are going to have their education on Ramsund, as today. The FSK must be on Rena, as it is today. What's the change is that we're going organisationally out of the Navy and the Army, and into a common area of activity, but they're keeping their connection. MJK shall be located on Håkonsvern, as today. At the same time, we're going to an investment of almost 300 million. kr to give them an appropriate building mass, which they absolutely deserve, and which is important for being as operational and as good as we have set as goal. It is absolutely right that loss of competence always becomes a discussion when the defence reorganizes. When we moved the joint operating headquarters from Stavanger to Bodø, it was also about loss of competence. The FHO in Bodø today works brilliantly. It's clear that in the case of the aviation environment, which is a very specialised environment, it's important to take care of them. That's why it's important to get to the new reorganization and relocation in a way that ensures our competence, and that's our responsibility. When it comes to the organisation at Evenes, it goes according to plan, and we're going to keep doing that. Finally, to clarify what I said earlier: for 2014, this preparedness will cost 8.4 million. kr, and that is the number given in a reply to the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4975	It has been claimed that it is important to have humility in the debate. I fully agree with that, but it is also important to listen to what is actually being said from this pulpit. And today I had a written manuscript during my first post, and then I said the following – I read it once more: «In my view, a postponement of the handling of this matter could create challenges for the desire to quickly put the Marine Hunter Command on national counter-terrorism preparedness.» To claim that I have then said that it is not possible to put the Marine Hunter Command on hold if we do not do the reorganisation is simply not correct. I claimed in a later post that I think it's going to be harder to do this without doing the reorganisation. It's something quite different. The whole point is that we're going to have two sections, but now they're going to work together. They're going to train together, they're going to practice together, and we're going to use the best in both sections. The whole idea is that our special forces should work better together, and that the resources needed by both departments can be seen in a larger context. So no one has said that it's not possible to put the Marine Hunters' Command on standby without the reorganisation, but the idea and my reasoning, which I tried to put forward, is that I think it's easier to get it done by the fact that the two departments work together under a common direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4982	The representative, Ine M. Eriksen Soreide, gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4985	I am well aware of the difference in what is technically possible, and what is considered to be optimal from the point of view of politics or others. But all that the Council of State took up in its last post, it is quite possible to do within the framework of today's arrangement with the Chief Special Operations Department in the Defence Staff. That is why we believe that in order to reorganise this character and size, with the costs and what else can result from a major reorganization, one must be sure that a significant increase in operating profit is achieved by doing so, rather than retaining what it is today and, as we also write in the setting, further developing, contemplating and cooperating even more between the special strength environments.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e4992	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 25 and 26.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e5006	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to four lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e5015	Yeah, it's late in the evening. The screens have gone in black, for some have gone down the roller blind, and it will be a long day tomorrow. So I'm going to make it very short. This is about the regulation of compensation for outsourced compulsory ratings, and a recommended increase of 1.5 pst is added. from 1 July 2013. The Committee agrees with the proposed amendment to the Regulation and considers it to be reasonable in relation to the remuneration line. For the Committee, it is important to stress that there is a decrease in the number of first-time service providers, and it is important that those actually implementing the first-time service are shown that society values them and the efforts they make. For the Committee, it is important to raise the status of first-time providers, and we therefore ask the government to promote a separate case of status-raising measures. Then there has been a minority in the Committee, consisting of members of the Progress Party, who propose that the service supplement be raised to 1G, and that the Dimission supplement be raised to 0.5G over a period of five years, and that in future changes follow adjustments to the basic amount of Social Security.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e5035	The representative Tom Staahle has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e5038	Let me say that so that I think most of the representatives in this room would have liked to go further than giving a lift to written ratings of 1.5 pst. or 2 kroner per day. However, the result will not be different from that of the Committee. In a situation where fewer and fewer people serve as guardians, this kind of hits the rootstock of our people's defense. Therefore, it is important that these few who actually carry out the duty of protection are demonstrated in a way that shows that society values what soldiers do. It should not be seen as extra profitable not to earn protection obligations, nor to choose a job or study. You would have protested immediately if a youth at work received an hourly wage that was down to the daily allowance of a guardian. And there's also some reason to think about the consequences. There are now few who are called up and implementing the duty of protection, and civil service has been abolished. Therefore, the Right is very pleased that this time there is a unanimous committee calling on the Government to promote its own case on status-enforcement measures for outlawed, vulnerable crews.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e5045	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 27.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e5051	Then Stortinget is ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e5058	A total of 29 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1–5, by Christian Tybring-Gjedde on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 6, by Christian Tybring-Gjedde on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 7, by Gunnar Gundersen on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 8, by Christian Tybring-Gjedde on behalf of the Progress Party, proposals No. 9-13, by Gunnar Gundersen on behalf of the Right and Left proposals No. 14 and 15, by Gunnar Gundersen, on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 16-29, from Borghild Tenden on behalf of the Left There will be a vote on the proposals No. 16-29, from the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e5086	Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows: the second paragraph of Section 5-15, new last sentence, is replaced by the following: [[tax laws]] II The amendment under I shall enter into force immediately with effect from the 2013 revenue year.» Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows: point (a) of the first paragraph of Section 5-14 is replaced by the following: However, the tax-free benefit may not exceed NOK 10000 per year. year of income. II The amendment under I shall enter into force immediately and with effect from the 2013 revenue year.» Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘In Law No 27 June 2008 62 on an individual pension scheme is amended as follows: the first sentence of the fourth paragraph of Section 1-3 is replaced by the following: the total annual payment of contributions, contributions and remuneration for the administration of the pension scheme, including the remuneration for the management of the contributions and contributions of the year, may not exceed NOK 40000 for each person. II I Law No. 26 March 1999 No. 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows: Paragraphs 6 to 47, first paragraph, point (c), second sentence is replaced by the following: The total deduction may not exceed NOK 40000. III The amendment under I shall enter into force immediately. The amendment under II shall enter into force immediately with effect from the 2013 income year.» Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income are amended as follows: The new second sentence of Section 10-20 of the Tax Payments Act is replaced by the following: This does not apply to advance taxes on personal taxpayers. [[tax laws]] II The amendment under I shall enter into force immediately, with effect from the revenue year 2013.’;» Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows: § 14-43, first paragraph, point (d) is replaced by the following: i.e. passenger cars, tractors, machinery, tools, instruments, furniture, etc. – 25 pst. The new fourth paragraph of Section 14-43 of the Tax Act is replaced by the following: In addition to depreciation after the first or second subparagraph, the operating aid covered by the first subparagraph, which has demonstrable environmental and climatic effects, may be written off by up to 5 pst in the year of acquisition. [[4]] of cost. Correspondingly applicable to the cost of the means of operation as referred to above, cf. § 14-40, third paragraph. The Ministry may lay down rules for the completion and implementation of this subparagraph, including the requirement for detectable environmental and climatic effects. II The amendments under item I shall enter into force immediately and with effect from the 2013 revenue year.» 21 reads: «In Law No. 26 March 1999 No. 14 on taxes on wealth and income are amended as follows: new point (c) of the second paragraph of Section 16-40 shall be replaced by the following: $14 million. crowns for the corresponding project by the research institution approved by the Norwegian Research Council. The project must have been approved by the Norwegian Research Council. The total deduction basis under this provision shall not exceed 14 million. crowns in the year of income. II The amendment under I shall enter into force immediately with effect from the 2013 revenue year.» Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘In Law of 19 June 1964 No. 14 on inheritance fees and certain gifts are repealed. II This Act shall enter into force immediately and with effect for inheritance and gift where it is available, see the second to sixth subparagraphs shall be deemed to have been acquired by the heir and the donor on or after 1 July 2013. Unless otherwise determined by inheritance or given provision or by the rules of the fifth and sixth subparagraphs, the availability acquired shall be considered as follows: (a) Inheritances which have not been under public succession: death of the heir. (b) over funds which have been dealt with by the courts: when they are distributed or returned without distribution or residence, unless a higher basis of charges has been used in the previous determination of charges, cf. point (a) and the time limit for the appeal against the previous valuation has expired on the opening of public parcels, cf. §§ 35 and 37. c) Over the funds of the missing person who is not subject to a public change: when the day of death is finally determined by the law on missing persons, etc. of 23 March 1961, § 8, cf. same law §§ 1 and 12. (d) Over gifts: when the gift under the third paragraph of Section 2 is deemed to have been provided. The provisions of subparagraphs (a) to (d) above do not mean that the availability is deemed to be acquired for as long as the surviving spouse retains the funds remaining unchanged under the law, will or consent of the heirs of the first deceased. When determining the time for the provision of the service, it is disregarded that the funds are to be treated as unauthorised or subject to similar restrictions on availability. [[live interest, current return on capital, right of use, land tax, etc.]] the availability of funds consisting of income benefits; Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘In Law No 28 February 1997 19 on social security is amended as follows: Section 23-2 new 10th paragraph is replaced by the following: No employer’s fee shall be paid for paid work as an apprentice for whom a grant is granted under the training law of 23 June 2006 § 11-4, when the apprentice joins on or after 1 July 2013. [[People's Security Act]] The current tenth to thirteenth term becomes eleventh to fourteenth term. II The amendments under I enter into force immediately with effect for wages and salaries etc. from 1 July 2013.’» Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘In Law No 28 February 1997 19 on social security is amended as follows: Section 23-2 new 10th paragraph is replaced by the following: For newly established enterprises with fewer than five employees, no employer’s contribution is payable which otherwise follows from the applicable rules and rates in the year of establishment and the following two years. [[People's Security Act]] The current tenth to thirteenth term becomes eleventh to fourteenth term. II The amendments under I shall enter into force immediately with effect for establishments registered for the first time on or after 1 January 2013 and with effect for wages and salaries etc. from 1 July 2013.’» Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘In Law No 19 June 2009 58 on value added tax is amended as follows: the second paragraph of Section 5-1 is replaced by the following: The Act §§ 5-3 to 5-11 applies to the extent that it follows from the Stortingen decision on value added tax that VAT is to be calculated at a reduced rate. [[VAT Act]] Paragraphs 5 to 2 are deleted. Paragraphs 6-16(a) are replaced by the following: § 6-16(a) Fruit and vegetables 1. Turnover of fruit and vegetables is exempt from VAT. 2nd@item: inlistbox The Ministry may prescribe the meaning of fruit and vegetables. Paragraphs 6-16(b) are replaced by the following: § 6-16(b) Organic food 1. The placing on the market of organic food is exempt from VAT. 2nd@item: inlistbox The Ministry may prescribe what is meant by organic food. § 7-1 is replaced by the following: VAT shall not be calculated on imports of goods as referred to in § 3-6(d), § 3-7, fourth paragraph, § 3-18, § § 6-1 to 6-3, § 6-6, first paragraph, § 6-15 and § 6-16a-b. II The amendments in I shall enter into force on 1 July 2013.’» Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘In Law No 19 June 2009 58 on value added tax is amended as follows: the second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 2-1 is replaced by the following: For charitable and non-profit institutions and organisations, the amount limit is SEK 500000. [[VAT Act]] II The amendments in I shall enter into force on 1 July 2013.’» Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘In Law No 28 February 1997 19 on population protection, etc. the first paragraph of Sections 8 to 34 is amended as follows: to a self-employed person, sickness benefit is paid by 80 pst. on the basis of sickness benefits, see Sections 8 to 10 and 8-35. Paragraphs 8 to 34 new third paragraph are replaced by the following: If a self-employed person is sick on grounds of maternity-related illness and the organisation or relocation to other work in the establishment is not possible, the insured person shall cover sickness benefits by 100 pst. from the first day of the search. The current third and fourth terms become the fourth and fifth terms. Paragraphs 8 to 36 of the first paragraph are replaced by the following: A self-employed person is entitled to sickness benefits of 80 pst. on the sickness benefit basis from 17 days of sickness. A self-employed person may, at a special premium, take out insurance which may include sickness benefits of 100 pst. on the sickness benefit basis from the first day of sickness. § 9-5, first paragraph, introductory wording, is replaced by the following: A worker or self-employed person who is caring for children is provided with care if he or she is away from work. § 9-9 new third paragraph is replaced by the following: For self-employed persons, social security benefits are provided from the first day by 100 pst. on the basis of sickness benefits. Paragraphs 9 to 16 of the second paragraph are replaced by the following: The benefits are provided by the percentage of the sickness fund applicable in the case of own illness, but self-employed persons will not be reduced by the percentage of their own illness. For the unemployed, the benefit is provided in accordance with the provisions of Sections 8 to 49 on sick pay for the unemployed. II The amendments in I shall enter into force with effect from 1 July 2013.’» Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘In Law No 24 November 2000 81 on occupational retirement provision is amended as follows: the third sentence of the second paragraph of Section 2-3 is replaced by the following: annual contributions to the scheme referred to in the first and second sentences may not exceed 6 pst. [[Investment Pensions Act]] of the total imputed person’s income from business activities, remuneration to the participant for the labour input of a participating company or remuneration between 1 and 12 G. II. The change under I shall enter into force immediately.’;» Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘In Law No 28 February 1997 19 on population protection, etc. the heading is amended as follows: Section 8-20 is replaced by the following: Exemption from the employer’s responsibility for pregnant workers and from the risk of particularly severe sick leave. The second paragraph of § 8-20 is replaced by the following: Social security benefits for pregnant workers are also provided during the employer's period, see § 8-19. II The amendments in I shall enter into force with effect from 1 July 2013.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e5407	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 14 and 15, from the right. Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income are amended as follows: the tenth paragraph of Section 18-3 is replaced by the following: of production in power stations with generators which in the year of income have a total stamped value less than 11000 kVA, the basic interest income is not determined. [[tax laws]] II The amendment under I shall enter into force immediately with effect from the 2013 revenue year.» Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘In Law No 28 February 1997 19 on social security is amended as follows: the first paragraph of Section 9-5 is replaced by the following: to a worker or self-employed person who is caring for children, care is provided if he or she is away from work a. due to the necessary supervision and care of a sick child at home or in a health institution, b. because the person who has daily child care is ill, c. because the person who has daily child care is prevented from supervising the child because he or she is accompanying another child for examination or hospitalisation, or d. because the child needs follow-up in the form of medical visits, etc. [[People's Security Act]] even if the child is not sick or in need of care on the current day. Paragraph 9-6, seventh paragraph, becomes the eighth paragraph. The seventh paragraph is replaced by the following: The rules of this paragraph apply mutatis mutandis to self-employed persons, but in calculating the number of days spent on care, the first paragraph of Section 9-7 is replaced by the following: In order for the worker to be entitled to social security benefits from the employer, the sickness of the child or child-care provider must be documented by means of self-announcement or a medical certificate. In order for self-employed persons to be entitled to care allowance, the sickness of the child or child-career must be documented by a medical certificate.§ 9-9 first and second are replaced by the following: Social security benefits are provided if the worker has been in work or in an equal situation for a total of at least four weeks immediately prior to his absence but is not entitled to care allowance from an employer. [[§ 9-2 cf. § 8-2]] For self-employed persons, social security benefits are provided. Care benefits are calculated in accordance with the same provisions as sickness benefits from social security, see Chapter 8. Care allowance of 100 pst is paid to self-employed persons. on the basis of up to six times the basic amount.II The amendments under point I shall enter into force immediately with effect from 1 July 2013.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e5490	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 9-13, from the Right and the Left. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income are amended as follows: the second paragraph of Section 16-10 is replaced by the following: tax deductions on housing savings are granted at 28 per cent of the amount of savings paid. [[tax laws]] Paragraphs 16-10, third paragraph, first and second sentence shall be replaced by the following: Amounts of savings paid may not exceed NOK 25 000 per year. year of income. The total amount of savings paid in the account may not exceed NOK 300000. II The amendments under I shall enter into force immediately with effect from the 2013 revenue year.» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘In Law No 19 June 2009 58 on VAT is amended as follows: the first paragraph of Section 6-6 is replaced by the following: Turnover and leasing of vehicles using only electricity for propulsion is exempt from VAT. [[1]] The exemption applies only to vehicles covered by the decision of the Storting on the one-off charge § 5, first paragraph, point (i) and which are subject to registration under the Road Traffic Act. § 6-6 new second paragraph is replaced by the following: The placing on the market and leasing of batteries for vehicles as referred to in the first paragraph is exempt from VAT. [[2]] The current second term is going to be a new third term. II The amendments in I shall enter into force on 1 July 2013.’» Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘In Law No 19 June 2009 58 on value added tax is amended as follows: the first paragraph of Section 15-3 is replaced by the following: if, in a calendar year, VAT-based turnover and withdrawals do not exceed 2 million. kronor, VAT not included, the tax office may agree to the delivery of the turnover task once a year. [[VAT Act]] [[1]] The due date is the calendar year. II The amendments in I shall enter into force on 1 July 2013.’» Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘In Act No 17 July 1998 61 on primary and secondary education is amended as follows: Training Act § 13-5 is repealed. II The amendment in I shall enter into force with effect from 1 July 2013. III The Government asks the Government to repeal § 18-2 of the corresponding regulation.» Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘In the State Guarantee Act, for claims for remuneration in the event of bankruptcy, etc. the following shall be amended as follows: the new fifth sentence of the third paragraph of Section 1 shall be replaced by the following: cover shall be granted only for holiday pay earned in the same year as the deadline and the previous year. Paragraph 1, third paragraph, the new sixth sentence shall be replaced by the following: For claims earned after opening the bankruptcy, only one month from the opening of the bankruptcy shall be covered. The second sentence of the third paragraph of Article 1 shall be replaced by the following: interest until the deadline and recovery costs relating to claims covered by the second and third sentences are eligible for the remuneration guarantee. II The amendments in I shall enter into force immediately with effect from 1 July 2013.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e5597	There is a vote on proposal No. 8 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows: point (d) of the first paragraph of Section 14-43 is replaced by the following: i.e. passenger cars, tractors, machinery, tools, instruments, furniture, etc. [[tax laws]] - 25 percent. § 14-43, first paragraph, point (e) is replaced by the following: e. ships, vessels, rigging, etc. - 20 percent. Paragraphs 14 to 43 of the new fourth subparagraph are replaced by the following: In addition to depreciation after the first subparagraph, assets as referred to in heading d of the balance sheet acquired after 30 June 2013 may be depreciated by up to 5 per cent of the cost. [[4]] Similarly, after 30 June 2013, the operational resource cost of balancing group d applies, cf. § 14-40, third paragraph. III The amendments in I shall enter into force on 1 January 2013. The amendment under II shall enter into force immediately with effect for the 2013 income year. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e5639	There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the Law of 26 March 1999 No. 14 on taxes on wealth and income are amended as follows: Paragraphs 14 to 43 new fourth paragraph shall be replaced by the following: In addition to depreciation after the first subparagraph, assets as referred to in balancing group d acquired after 30 June 2013 may be depreciated by up to 10 per cent of their cost. [[tax laws]] [[4]] Similarly, after 30 June 2013, the operational resource cost of balancing group d applies, cf. § 14-40, third paragraph. II The amendments under item I shall enter into force immediately with effect for the 2013 income year. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e5664	There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from the Party of Advancement, the Right Party and the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking in its 2014 draft government budget for an in-depth assessment of the impact of the government’s proposal for a change in revenue in combination with increased special taxes and an assessment of other proposals that could increase the exploitation rate for fields in operation.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e5679	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–5, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The decision requests the Government of the State Budget for 2014 to submit proposals in which the client accounts of lawyers are handled in line with the proposal of the Law Association and so that exemptions from the obligation of professional secrecy are not necessary.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income are amended as follows: the second sentence of § 6 to 50, fifth paragraph, is replaced by the following: a maximum deduction is made for gifts under this paragraph with a total of NOK 25 000 per year for natural persons and a total of NOK 100000 per year for traders. II The amendments under I shall enter into force immediately with effect from the 2013 revenue year.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income are amended as follows: points (a) and (b) of the second paragraph of Article 16-40 are replaced by the following: the following costs are deducted, if they are also deductible in accordance with Chapter 6: (a). crowns in the year of income. [[2]] The project must have been approved by the Norwegian Research Council. b. Costs incurred by taxpayers for research and development projects carried out by research institutions approved by the Norwegian Research Council, limited to 12 million. crowns in the year of income. The project must have been approved by the Norwegian Research Council. The total deduction amount referred to in points (a) and (b) shall not exceed 12 million. crowns in the year of income. Paragraphs 16-40, second paragraph, point (c) shall be replaced by the following: II The amendments under I shall enter into force immediately and with effect from the 2013 revenue year.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: «In Law No. 3 March 1972 No. 5 on inheritance, etc. Paragraph 46 shall be amended as follows: If the heir does not have relatives or spouses who inherit him, and if he has not made a testament to the inheritance, the heirs of voluntary organizations shall be determined by the king in accordance with the more detailed rules. II I Law 19 June 1964 No. 14 on inheritance and certain gifts are amended as follows: the fifth paragraph of Section 4 is replaced by the following: the inheritance and the gift referred to in point (b) of the first subparagraph of Section 2 and the second paragraph of Section 2 to legal persons for public use are exempt from the duty. The same applies to inheritance under Section 46 of the Inheritance Act. The distribution of funds from an institution or organisation which has received a free inheritance or gift in accordance with the rules set out in this subparagraph to any person who is eligible for a pre-existing inheritance or gift due to a relationship is considered to be inheritance or gift directly from the donor or heir. The exemption provided for in this subparagraph shall not be granted if the donor or the heirs have provided for the use of the heirs or gifts which do not fall within a non-profit purpose. The Ministry may lay down rules for supplementing and implementing the rules laid down in this subparagraph, including laying down rules on the requirements of the statutes, accounts and auditing. III The amendments under I and II shall enter into force immediately. However, the amendment to Section 4 of the Inheritance Tax Act applies with effect for inheritance and gift where the property is available, cf. Paragraphs 9 and 10 of the Inheritance Tax Act go beyond or beyond 1 July 2013.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘In Law No 28 February 1997 19 on social security is amended as follows: the second sentence of Section 23-2, eighth paragraph, is replaced by the following: the exemption after the first sentence shall apply only if the institution’s total wage and salary costs are up to SEK 500000 and only for pay payments up to SEK 50000 per employee. II The amendments under I shall enter into force immediately with effect from the revenue year 2013. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e6125	That's right over A. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e6139	It is votered over B, C, D, E, F and G, as well as H I, § 5-5 nr. 3nd sentence.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e6150	It is voted over by other paragraphs under H. The party of progress, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e6164	It is voted over the title of the laws and the laws as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e6174	Law decisions will be adopted for the second time during a subsequent meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e6182	A total of 22 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Christian Tybring-Gjedde on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 2, by Christian Tybring-Gjedde on behalf of the Progress Party and Left proposal No. 3, by Mr Tybring-Gjedde, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on proposal No. 4, by Gunnar Gundersen on behalf of the Right and Left proposals No. 5-10, by Gunnar Gundersen, on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 11 and 12, by Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 13-22, from Borghild Tenden on behalf of the Left There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 13-22, from the left. Proposal No. 13 reads: ‘In the Storting Decision of 27 November 2012 on the fixing of fees, etc. to the public interest for 2013 shall be amended as follows: Paragraphs 4 and 5 are replaced by the following: § 4 Special rules on apprentices For wages and salaries and other compensation for work and duties in and out of employment such as the employer’s obligations to report to apprentices and employees after 1 July 2013, no employer’s fee shall be calculated in any zone. § 5 Special rules for start-ups For wages and salaries and other compensation for work and employment in and out of employment as an employer's obligation to report, it shall not be calculated for enterprises which started after 1 January 2013 with up to 5 employees in any zone for wages and salaries earned after 1 July 2013 for up to three years after the first registration of the enterprise. Original § 4 becomes § 6 etc.» Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘Decision of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 November 2012 setting value added tax for 2013 is amended as follows: § 2 General rate VAT is payable by 24 pst. of taxable turnover, withdrawals and imports where no reduced rate shall be applied in accordance with the provisions below. Paragraph 3 is deleted. Current Sections 4 and 5 become Sections 3 and 4.» Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘Decision of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 November 2012 fixing the levy on alcohol for 2013 is amended as follows: Spirit-based beverages higher than 0,77,45 per volume and litreOther alcoholic beverages higher than 4,7 in 223,86 per volume and litre’» Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘Decision of the EEA Joint Committee of 27 November 2012 on the setting of an excise duty on fuel for 2013 is amended as follows: a) petrol 1 sulphur-free petrol NOK 5,28 2. low-sulphurised petrol NOK 5,32 3. other petrol: NOK 5,32 [[less than 10 ppm sulphur]] [[(less than 50 ppm sulphur):]] b) motor vehicle oil kr 4,25 2. low-sulphurised mineral oil kr 4,30 3. other mineral oil: kr 4,30 4. biodiesel; kr 0.» [[(less than 10 ppm sulphur):]] [[(less than 50 ppm sulphur):]] Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘Decision of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 November 2012 fixing the base rate for fuel oil for 2013 is amended as follows: the first paragraph of Section 1 is replaced by the following: As of 1 July 2013, Law 19 May 1933 provides that: 11 on excise duties is charged to the Treasury on imports and domestic production of mineral oil at NOK 2,018 per litre. For mineral oil for the wood processing industry and producers of dyes and pigments, a charge of NOK 0,126 per litre shall be payable.’;» Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘Decision of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 November 2012 fixing the CO2 tax on mineral products for 2013 is amended as follows: the first paragraph of Section 1 is replaced by the following: As of 1 July 2013, Law 19 May 1933 provides that: 11 on excise duties, CO2 tax is paid to the treasury on imports and domestic production of the following mineral products with the following amounts: a) mineral oil DKK 0,71 per litre. [[(general rate):]] Mineral oil for: domestic allowances: kr 0,53 per litre, other domestic aviation and non-commercial private flights: kr 0,81 per litre, wood processing industry, the herring and fishmeal industry: kr 0,41 per litre, fishing and fishing in close waters: kr 0,23 per litre; (b) petrol: kr 1,01 per litre; (c) natural gas: kr 0,56 per Sm3, (d) LPG: kr 0,78 per kg.’; Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘Size decision on the charge on plastic bags § 1 As of 1 July 2013, according to Law 19 May 1933 No. 11 if excise duties are paid to the State Treasury upon importation and domestic production of plastic bags of NOK 1 per bag. The Ministry may prescribe the scope of the charge and the basis for the charge. § 2 Exemptions, reimbursements or subsidies are granted for a charge on plastic bags which: (a) from the producer’s or importer’s warehouse 1. be carried out abroad; 2. entered in customs warehouses when the goods are intended for export; (b) introduced 1. as luggage under the customs law § 5-1, 2. under the customs law § 5-9 and are of minor value; (c) under the customs law § 5-3 from the warehouse of the registered establishment or importer is delivered to or introduced by 1. diplomats; 2. NATO and forces from countries participating in the Partnership for Peace, 3. the Nordic Investment Bank, (d) returns to the stocks of the producer or importer; The Ministry may provide for implementing, delimiting and conditions for exemption. § 3 In case of doubt as to the scope of the fee obligation, the question is decided by the Ministry. § 4 The Ministry may exempt or reduce the fee when individual cases or situations were not considered at the time the fee decision was taken and when, in the specific case, the fee has an unintended effect.» Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government as soon as possible, and at the latest in connection with the State budget for 2014, to investigate and propose the introduction of an environmental tax on air travel to and from Norwegian airports according to the German model.’; Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government as soon as possible, and at the latest in the context of the State budget for 2014, to provide a tax credit scheme for energy efficiency improvement measures in private buildings of up to SEK 50000.’ [[material and labour costs]] Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to amend Regulation No 17 December 2008, No. 1502 to the Customs and Commodity Code [[Customs Code]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e6415	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 11 and 12, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘Decision of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 November 2012 fixing the levy on alcohol for 2013 is amended as follows: the first paragraph of Section 1 is replaced by the following: As of 1 July 2013, Law 19 May 1933 provides that: 11 on excise duties paid to the central bank on imports and domestic production of the following goods with the following amounts: Alcoholic drinkVolume percentage of alcoholKrt.o.m. 0,7 is charged in accordance with the rules for non-alcoholic beveragesFire wine based over 0,77,54 per volume and litreOther than 0,7 per litre. 2,73,37 per litre, 2,7 to 2,7 3,712,67 per litre, 3,7 to 3,7 4,721.96 per litre, 4,7 to 4,6 224,91 % vol. and litreEthanol for technical uses above 0,7 % as for alcoholic beverages’» Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘Decision of the Storting on the fixing of the levy on tobacco products for 2013 of 27 November 2012 is amended as follows: the first paragraph of Section 1 shall be replaced by the following: 11 on excise duties paid to the central bank on imports and domestic production of the following goods with the following amounts: ProductKrSigarer2,59per gram net weightSigareter2,59per gram Smoked tobacco, savoury tobacco, raw tobacco in retail packings 2,59 per gram of net weight of the packScrat tobacco1,05 per gram of net weight of the packSnus1,05 per gram of net weight of the packSgart paper and cigarette sleeves0,394 per litre.»
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e6564	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5 to 10, from the right. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘In the Decision of the Storting of 27 November 2012 No 1212 on the contribution to the Treasury of Inheritances and Gifts for the financial year 2013 is amended as follows: § 1 As of 1 July 2013, according to Law 19 June 1964, no. 14 on inheritance and certain gifts are liable to the Treasury under the provisions of this Decision. [[arbitration tax law]] § 2 The second paragraph of Section 15 of the Inheritance Tax Act on Funeral Costs, Change Costs and Burial Costs is set at half the basic amount of the population’s income at the beginning of the year, i.e. 41 061 kroner, if no higher expenses are legitimized. [[G]] The costs of document fees and briefing are separately deducted. Deductions under Section 17 of the Inheritance Tax Act for taxable persons who have not reached the age of 21 are set at a basic amount in the social security at the beginning of the year, i.e. $82,122 a year. [[G]] § 3 The basis of the levy is rounded down to the nearest figure which can be divided by 1 000. § 4 Of the inheritances and gifts to the children of the heir(s), the foster(s) – including the stepchildren who have been raised by the heir(s) – and the parents – the following answers: Of the first 800,000 kroner nothing Of excess amount5 pst. § 5 Of inheritances and gifts not covered by § 4, answers: Of the first 800 000 kroner net Of excess 7,5 pst.» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The decision of the Grand Duchy on the excise duty on fuel for the financial year 2013 shall be amended as follows: Paragraph 1(b) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: b) oil for the propulsion of the motor vehicle kr 3,75, 2. low-sulphurised mineral oil kr 3,80, 3. other mineral oil: kr 3,80, 4. biodiesel blended into mineral oil: kr 1,87. [[(less than 10 ppm sulphur):]] [[(less than 50 ppm sulphur):]] Section 6 is replaced by the following: Exemption or premium is granted if the proportion of biodiesel in the mineral oil is 30 pst. or more. The current Sections 6 and 7 become Sections 7 and 8.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The decision of the Grand Duchy on the base charge for mineral oil, etc. for the financial year 2013 Section 1, first subparagraph, the first sentence shall be replaced by the following: 11 on excise duties payable to the State Treasury on imports and domestic production of mineral oil at NOK 1,268 per litre.’ 8 reads: ‘The decision on the CO2 tax on mineral products for the 2013 Budgetary Mining Section 1 is replaced by the following: As of 1 July 2013, Law 19 May 1933 No. 11 on excise duties, the CO2 tax is paid to the treasury on imports and domestic production of the following mineral products, with the following amounts: (a) mineral oil, NOK 0,61 per litre. [[(general rate):]] Mineral oil for domestic quota aviation: kr 0,43 per litre, other domestic aviation and non-commercial private flights: kr 0,71 per litre, wood processing industry, the herring and fishmeal industry: kr 0,31 per litre, fishing and fishing in close waters: kr 0,13 per litre (b) petrol: kr 0,91 per litre, (c) natural gas: kr 0,46 per Sm3, (d) LPG: kr 0,68 per kg. A charge of NOK 0,05 per Sm3 of natural gas and NOK 0 per kg of LPG shall be paid for products delivered to industry and mines used in the production process itself. The exemption in point (g) of the first paragraph of Section 2 shall not apply to mineral oil and petrol for domestic allowances. The Ministry may prescribe the scope of the charge and the basis for the charge. 'Proposal No 9 reads: ‘From 1 July 2013, Decision of the Stortinge is amended as follows: 27 November 2012 on the levy on non-alcoholic beverages, etc. for the financial year 2013: the first paragraph of Section 1 shall be replaced by the following: 11 if excise duties are paid to the treasury upon importation and domestic production of the following goods, with the following amounts per litre: a. non-alcoholic beverages with added sugar or artificial sweeteners: kr 3,06; b. juice made from fruit and berries with added sugar or artificial sweeteners: kr 1,53, c. syrup with added sugar or artificial sweeteners used for the acquisition of non-alcoholic beverages in dispensers, fountains, etc.: kr 18,68.» Proposal No. 10 reads: ‘The government asks the government to continue the special deduction for large costs of disease at the same level as for 2012.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e6736	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Right and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Decision of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 November 2012 on the setting of a levy on tobacco products for 2013 is amended as follows: As of 1 July 2013, Law 19 May 1933 provides that: 11 on excise duties paid to the central bank on imports and domestic production of the following goods with the following amounts: ProductCronesSigars2,47 per gram of the net weight of the packSigars2,47 per piece of tobacco smoke, uncrushed tobacco, raw tobacco in retail packings2,47 per gram of the net weight of the packageSnus1,00 per gram of the net weight of the packageSpiked tobacco1,00 per gram of the net weight of the packSigarette paper and paper sleeves0,0376 per piece.»
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e6795	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size is in line with the government’s proposal for a decision setting fees, etc. to the 2013 census, with the following changes: Section 4 is replaced by the following: § 4 Special rules on apprentices For wages and salaries and other compensation for work and duties in and out of employment as employers' obligations to report to apprentices, no employer's fee shall be calculated in any zone from 1 July 2013. Original section 4 becomes 5 etc.»
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e6817	There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Progress Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to establish, in the context of the submission of the State budget for 2014, a wreckage scheme for boats, caravans and heavier vehicles similar to the scheme applicable to ‘normal’ vehicles.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e6831	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to raise the wage and salary obligation limit of non-governmental organisations to NOK 8 000 per employee.»
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e7830	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Gunnar Gundersen on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 2, from Christian Tybring-Gjedde on behalf of the Progress Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to promote the necessary legislative proposals to ensure that private individuals building residential care, either alone or jointly with several, for children with developmental disabilities who do not have their own residence, are included in the VAT compensation scheme in line with other private measures that cooperate with municipalities to operate a health and care service.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e7858	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 1, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to promote the necessary legislative proposals to ensure that private individuals building residential care, either alone or jointly with several, for children with developmental disabilities who do not have their own residence, are included in the VAT compensation scheme in line with other private measures that cooperate with municipalities to operate a health and care service if the housing requested is approved by the host municipality as part of the municipal housing social action plan.’ The Progress Party has announced that they support the proposal in a subsidiary way.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e7878	In the course of the debate, Mr Tybring-Gjedde put forward a proposal, proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals to introduce a so-called ROS and ROT deduction to combat black work, gross exploitation of labour; [[Social dumping]] Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Committee had set up: Document 8:127 S [[2012-2013]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e7917	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. They're the proposals No 1-3, by Bent Höie on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 4, from Per Arne Olsen on behalf of the Progress Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 4th from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the introduction of enhanced patient rights and a shorter guarantee of treatment according to the Danish model.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e7943	The proposals are then put to the vote. 2 and 3, from the Party of Advancement, the Right Party, and the Christian Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose an amendment to the Patient and User Rights Act whereby agreed deadlines for patient treatment courses are granted equivalent rights and obligations to the legally binding deadline for necessary health care.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose a change to the Patient Rights Act so that the Special Health Service Act § 2-5a on the obligation of healthcare to establish a coordinator also becomes an individual right for this patient group to appoint a coordinator.’ The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e8059	Alternatively, between the appointment of the Committee to Section 2-4, first paragraph, and proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 2 of July 1999 63 on patient and user rights, the first paragraph of Section 2-4 shall be replaced by the following: the patient has the right to choose in which hospital, district psychiatric centre, private radiological institution, private institution providing rehabilitation in the specialist health service, or institution providing multidisciplinary specialised treatment for drug use, or treatment site in such an institution, shall be treated. It is a prerequisite for the institution to be owned by a regional health undertaking or to have an agreement with a regional health undertaking.’;» The left has announced that they will support the proposal. The voting boards showed that there were 52 votes in favour and 47 votes in favour of the proposal by the Party of Advancement, the Right and the Christian People's Party. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 23.55.49]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e8075	President! I think I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e8080	So let's do the voting again. In the case of alternative voting between the Committee's position on the first paragraph of Section 2-4 and the proposal of the Advance Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party, 52 votes to 48 were accepted. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 23.56.59]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e8087	The Committee shall then vote against the other paragraphs of I, II and V.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e8097	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e8107	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e8114	During the debate Bent Höie has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to start work on introducing a ‘package course’ in cancer care according to the Danish model in order to ensure rapid, effective and good treatment for Norwegian cancer patients.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Committee had set up: Document 8:102 S [[2012-2013]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e8126	The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e8166	The Christian People's Party has announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e8179	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Christian People's Party wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e8193	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e8201	A total of 29 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1–5, by Jon Jäger Gåsvatn on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 6-11, by Jon Jäger Gåsvatn on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 12-27, by Jon Jäger Gåsvatn on behalf of the Progress Party, proposals Nos. 28 and 29, from Line Henriette Hemdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 28 and 29, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The government is asking for solutions to the pension challenges of the non-profit sector in health, care, social and child protection services as soon as possible.’ Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate 25 pst. by non-profit sector by 2025.»
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e8238	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 12-17, 19, 20, 22, 26 and 27, from the Party of Advancement. Proposal No. 12 reads: ‘The government is asking the government to transfer the responsibility for the financing of the elderly from the municipalities to the state through public funds as soon as possible and at the latest at the time of the submission of the State budget for 2014.’ Proposal No. 13 reads: ‘The government asks the government to file a case for the introduction of free choice of user choice for all care services, so that the money follows the user of the service.’ Proposal No. 14 reads: ‘The government asks the Government to present its own case to the Storting, which gives a clear definition of what is contained in the concept of luck care and care.’ Proposal No. 15 reads: ‘The Government asks the government to investigate the extension of the bladder prescription system to include accommodation.’ Proposal No. 16 reads: ‘The government asks the government to assess whether other restrictions on the basis of remuneration, for example by introducing a maximum amount, are to be imposed in the regulation on the abstinence of municipal health and care services.’ Proposal No. 17 reads: ‘The government asks the Government at the latest at the time of the submission of the State budget for 2014, to put in place a scheme whereby users with a proven need who are not offered sick leave receive 1000 kroner per day from municipalities to purchase other services until hospitalisation is granted.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government is asked to submit a plan of progress on how to achieve 25 pst by 2020. the coverage of day-care facilities for all older people aged over 80, showing the need for the number of nursing homes and the number of nursing homes, to ensure that the care of the elderly is provided at the proper level of care.» Proposal No. 20 reads: ‘The government is asked to propose incentives to increase the use of State-funded intermediate departments.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess the establishment of a grant scheme that stimulates municipalities to associate with persons with a clinical nutritional competence.’ Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to file a case on state staffing standards for nursing homes, both doctors and nurses.’ Proposal No. 27 reads: ‘The Government is asked to assign the Health Directorate Approval Authority to the crew plans at the country’s nursing home, in order to ensure a professionally sound level of staff, irrespective of their place of residence.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e8306	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 18, 21 and 23–25, from the Party of Advancement. Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a case to the Storting for a commitment to ICT and other technological solutions in healthcare at the latest in the context of the State budget for 2014.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government is asked to file a case for the imposition of binding, normised rates and criteria of pay for care.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The government is asking for arrangements to enable patients receiving home care or nursing care to continue with their permanent dentist and to be refunded from the public at the same time as a public dental clinic would receive for the same type of treatment.’ Proposal No. 24 reads: ‘The government asks the government to propose its own means of conversion for Norwegian municipalities that implement the strategy contained in the project ‘Longest possible in their own lives’ as one knows it from Fredericia municipality in Denmark.’ Proposal No. 25 reads: ‘The government is asked to review the physical therapy reimbursement arrangements with a view to establishing a uniform regulatory framework for the whole country.’ The left has announced that they want to support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e8347	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7-10, from the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals for the legalisation of the right to hospital accommodation in the case of medically-documented needs.’ [[relevant care measures]] Proposal No. 8 reads: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals to amend the Law on municipal health and care services in order to introduce directives on the implementation of preventive home visits by people over 75 years of age who want such a measure.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish at least 600 new municipal relief centres for the next four years and to provide grants for their operation.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to propose a scheme of incentives or earmarked operating grants for elderly centres in Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e8379	There is a vote on proposal No. 11, from the Advancement Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to refer the matter to the Stortinget as soon as possible with proposals for municipal obligations and individual day-to-day services for people with dementia, applicable from 1 January 2015.’ The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e8398	There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Advancement Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to present its own case to ensure that users with the need for particularly resource-intensive services do not suffer any deterioration in their service provision as a result of their age of 67.’ The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e8417	We should also vote in favour of proposal No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e8422	We then protocol that the Left supports proposal No. 11th@item: inlistbox But it was so much informed during the voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e8425	It should have been shared.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e8430	It was separate feeding. Let's move on. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–5, from the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to design the right to BPA so that the user can agree on his own assistance needs where, how, when and to which tasks user-driven personal assistance can be used.’; Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a proposal for a law on related training which requires municipalities to provide advice, guidance and training to relatives of persons receiving health care when requested by their dependants.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the promotion of a national rehabilitation and rehabilitation plan based on the model of the mental health escalation plan. The plan shall include proposals for the development of the offer both in the primary health service and in the specialist health service, as well as a description of measures for the better organisation of the offer.’;» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to refer the matter to the Stortinget as soon as possible with proposals for improvements to the care scheme.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to amend the Act on Excise Duties for Municipal Health and Welfare Services so that older people who are in need of nursing leave sharing their homes against their will receive a 50 per cent reduction in the total remuneration payment.’ The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e8487	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No 1, from Line Henriette Hemdal on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, from Bent Höie on behalf of the Right There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking that a plan for the establishment of some public-private cooperation projects for hospital buildings, which ensure the faster realisation of new buildings and improved maintenance of the properties, be included as part of an operational, national health and hospital plan.’; [[OPS]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e8511	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a part to be drawn up in the context of a more operational national health and hospital plan dealing with better health buildings. This must ensure better maintenance and faster renewal of hospital properties. The plan must contain the following: 1. An assessment of the need for maintenance, upgrade and initial investment for the properties of the specialist health service. 2nd@item: inlistbox A long-term national maintenance, upgrade and initial investment financing plan. 3rd@item: inlistbox An adjustment to current financial legislation allowing the financing of 70 per cent of the costs of major initial investments. 4th@item: inlistbox The establishment of a dedicated health building organisation to ensure better maintenance and faster renewal of hospital buildings so that they become more functional and modern. 'The proposers have requested that it be voted separately on paragraph 3 of the proposal. It is voted over point 3. The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e8541	It is then voted on points 1, 2 and 4 of proposal No. 1 from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e8566	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Per Arne Olsen on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for an extension of hospital capacity in the Oslo region.’ An alternative vote is taken between the vote and this proposal. The Committee had set up: Document 8:101 S [[2012-2013]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e8578	The left has notified that they support this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e8593	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Line Henriette Hemdal on behalf of the Advance Party, Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals for a national medical action plan to ensure the quality, competence and accessibility of users.’ An alternative vote is taken between the vote and this proposal. The Committee had set up: Document 8:76 S [[2012-2013]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e8605	The left has announced their support for the proposal. The voting boards showed that 51 votes had been cast for the Committee's suspension and 48 votes for the proposal of the Advance Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 00.06.51]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e8614	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e8619	Then there will be 52 votes in favour of the Committee's position and 47 votes in favour of the proposal of the Progressive Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e8627	The Committee had called upon the Grand Duchy to take such a decision to: law on amendments to the Civil Ombudsman Act I [[national prevention mechanism]] In the law of 22 June 1962 No. 8 on the Administrative Ombudsman of the Grand Duchy is amended as follows: Paragraph 3(a) is added as follows: § 3a National prevention mechanism The Ombudsman is the national prevention mechanism as described in Article 3 of the Optional Protocol of 18 December 2002 to the United Nations International Convention on Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment on 10 December 1984. The Ombudsman shall establish an advisory panel on the work as a national prevention mechanism. the second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 4 is replaced by the following: The field of work also includes the situation of persons deprived of liberty in private institutions where the detention is based on a decision by a public authority or takes place on the initiative of a public authority or with the consent or consent of a public authority. The current second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 4 becomes the second paragraph. the introductory part is replaced by the following: The Ombudsman’s work does not include: point (e) of the second paragraph of Section 4 is replaced by the following: matters falling within the Ombudsman’s or the Defence Ombudsman’s competence under the provisions of the Storting; the second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 7 is replaced by the following: As a national prevention mechanism, the Ombudsman shall have the same right to require information from a person in service for private institutions as referred to in the second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 4. The current Section 7, first paragraph, second sentence, becomes the third sentence. Section 8 is replaced by the following: § 8 Access to premises, services, etc. The fourth sentence of the second paragraph of Section 9 is replaced by the following: The same obligation of professional secrecy rests with his staff and others who assist in the performance of the Ombudsman's duties. Section 10 is replaced by the following: § 10 Closure of the Ombudsman’s proceedings Section 10 the following new seventh paragraph is added: As a national prevention mechanism, the Ombudsman may make recommendations with a view to improving the treatment and conditions of the deprived and preventing torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. The responsible authority shall review the recommendations and initiate a dialogue with the Ombudsman on possible implementing measures. the second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 12 is replaced by the following: A specific notification of the activity as a national prevention mechanism shall be made. The current second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 12 becomes the third sentence and is replaced by the following: The messages are printed and published. II The Act enters into force on 1 July 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e8722	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e8733	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e8848	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e8858	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e9450	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e9460	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e9467	A total of 10 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-10, from Morten Ørsal Johansen on behalf of the Progress Party Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘A Adoption of the Act amending the Foreign Affairs Act of 15 May 2008 No 35 on the access of foreigners to the State and their residence here is amended as follows: § 1 shall be replaced by the following: § 1 The purpose of the Act shall be to provide the basis for the regulation and control of immigration and the residence of non-residents in the State, and to limit the influx of non-residents within the framework of international obligations.The law shall facilitate legal cross-border movement where this is not contrary to the interests of immigration policy, and shall ensure the legal security of foreigners who enter or leave the State, who are staying here or who are applying for an authorisation under the Act. The law shall provide a basis for protection against persecution of refugees and other effectively persecuted foreigners and a restrictive interpretation of general international law and international conventions shall be used. § 3 shall be replaced by the following: § 3 The relationship of the Act to international rulesThe law shall be applied in accordance with the EEA rules, the EFTA rules and the Nordic conventions. The second paragraph of Section 5 is replaced by the following: Nordic citizens are exempted from the requirement for a residence permit to take up residence or work in the Kingdom. The king may provide for further exceptions in regulations where this does not conflict with immigration policy considerations. Paragraph 7, second paragraph, is deleted. Paragraph 8 third paragraph is deleted. Paragraph 9 of the first paragraph is replaced by the following: Foreigners must have visas to Norway in order to enter the Kingdom, unless the King has dispensed with this requirement. However, a non-resident at the Norwegian border seeking protection under the rules of Chapter 4 is entitled to enter without a visa. Paragraph 10 eighth paragraph is deleted. Paragraph 11, first paragraph, is replaced by the following: where necessary for national reasons or for acute humanitarian reasons, visas may be issued for up to three months even if the conditions of Section 10 are not fulfilled. The provision of the fourth paragraph of Section 9 shall apply mutatis mutandis. § 12 is replaced by the following: § 12 Entry visaA foreigner granted a residence permit may be granted a visa for entry in accordance with the detailed rules laid down by the King in the regulations. Paragraph 14 of the first paragraph shall be replaced by the following: If no other provision is made, entry and exit shall take place through border crossings determined by the Ministry. The internal Schengen border may be crossed anywhere in the absence of temporary border control. Such border controls may only be introduced if there is a threat to public order or internal security. Customs legislation applies when the internal Schengen border is crossed. The king may lay down detailed rules. The second paragraph of Section 15 shall be replaced by the following: Entry and exit checks shall ensure that every person has a passport or other document recognised as a travel document and that visa holders have a valid visa. If the controller refuses to provide his/her identity, or there is reason to suspect that the identity provided is false, or that the person conceals the identity document, a visit shall be made with a view to obtaining the identification document. It shall also be ensured that there is no other ground for expulsion, see: Section 17. Paragraph 17(h) is replaced by the following: when the foreigner is penalised or subjected to a special reaction to a condition which under Norwegian law may result in a prison sentence for three years or more, paragraph 17(j) is replaced by the following: when the competent health professional finds that the foreigner is manifestly suffering from serious mental illness or serious illness with a high risk of infection, the second paragraph of Section 17 is deleted. Paragraph 17 of the new fourth paragraph is replaced by the following: Rejection in cases of unexplained identity may take place in the country of origin. Paragraph 20, first paragraph, point (g) shall be replaced by the following: educational institutions shall provide the police with an inventory of foreign students or students. Paragraph 23(d) of the first paragraph is replaced by the following: there is a specific offer of work. As a general rule, the job offer applies to full-time work for one employer and is of a certain duration. Derogations may be made on the basis of a specific assessment of the nature of the post. Paragraph 23 of the fifth paragraph is replaced by the following: The king may make additional provisions in the regulation, including on the content of the residence permit, the situation of unemployment, the withdrawal of the residence permit and exemptions from the requirement for a residence permit. Paragraph 23 new sixth paragraph is replaced by the following: The permit does not constitute a permanent residence permit. Paragraph 25 is deleted. Section 26 is replaced by the following: Residence permit for studies and for scientific purposes, etc. Paragraph 26 of the second paragraph is replaced by the following: The king may make additional provisions in the regulation, including on the content of the residence permit and withdrawal of the residence permit. Paragraph 26 new third paragraph is replaced by the following: The permit does not form the basis for a permanent residence permit. [[asyl]] Paragraph 27, third paragraph, shall be replaced by the following: In the event of a suspicion of a breach of the conditions or of a non-resident’s not having the necessary residence permit, the Labour Inspectorate shall immediately inform the foreign authorities. Paragraph 28 shall be replaced by the following: § 28 Residence permits for effectively persecuted foreigners A foreigner who is in the state or on the Norwegian border shall be recognised as a refugee and granted a residence permit upon application if the foreigner has a well-founded fear of persecution because of racial, religious, nationality, membership of a special social group or because of political views and cannot invoke protection in the country of origin or country of the same region, see paragraph 28. the Convention on Refugees on 28 July 1951, Article 1 A and Protocol on 31 January 1967. A foreigner who is in the territory or at the Norwegian border shall, upon application, be allowed a stay if, without falling within the first subparagraph, the foreigner is in real danger of being subjected to the death penalty, torture or other inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment upon return to his country of origin. As a general rule, the applicant shall be recognised as a refugee after the first subparagraph even when the need for protection has arisen after the applicant has left the country of origin and is due to the applicant’s own actions. In assessing whether exceptions to the general rule are to be made, particular attention shall be paid to whether the need for protection is due to offences punishable by Norwegian law or whether it appears most likely that the main purpose of the acts was to obtain a residence permit. The right of recognition as a refugee referred to in the first subparagraph shall not apply if the foreigner can obtain effective protection in parts of the home Member State other than the territory from which the applicant has fled and it is not unreasonable to refer the applicant to seek protection in those parts of the home Member State. Where a foreigner has received a refusal to apply for a residence permit under this provision, the decision-making authority shall assess on its own initiative whether the provisions of Section 38 are applicable. The king may lay down detailed rules for the application of this paragraph and Sections 29 and 30. Section 29 of the title is replaced by the following: The first paragraph of Section 28 is replaced by the following: In order for actions to be regarded as persecution under the first paragraph of Section 28, either point (b) of the third paragraph of Section 29 is replaced by the following: organisations or groupings controlling the State apparatus or a large part of the territory of the State that the foreigner cannot be referred to for protection in other parts of the country, see paragraph 29. the fourth paragraph, or the title of Section 30, is replaced by the following: For the application of the first paragraph of Section 28 the following shall be taken into account when assessing the basis for the persecution: the new point (e) of the first paragraph of Section 30 shall be replaced by the following: Breeding performances shall be considered to include, in particular, skin colour, descent and belonging to a particular ethnic group. Paragraph 31 of the heading is replaced by the following: Exclusion from the right to recognition as a refugee and the right to stay under paragraph 28(31)(b) shall be replaced by: has committed a serious offence under Norwegian law beyond the borders of Norway before having access to Norway as a refugee, or the second paragraph of Section 31 shall be replaced by the following: Neither is there a right to recognition as a protective measure under the second paragraph of Section 28 if there is a basis for expelling the foreigner from the fundamental national interests, security considerations, or the foreigner has received a final judgment for a particularly serious crime and therefore poses a danger to the Norwegian society. Paragraph 31 of the third paragraph is replaced by the following: The right to be recognised as protective under the second paragraph of Section 28 is not available even if the foreigner left the home country only in order to avoid criminal proceedings for one or more criminal offences which could have been punished by imprisonment if the offences had been committed in Norway. Paragraph 34, first paragraph, is replaced by the following: If there is a mass migration situation in Norway's neighbourhoods, the King of State may decide that collective protection may be granted under this paragraph. The King of State Council also decides when access to collective protection shall lapse. Paragraph 35, first paragraph, is replaced by the following: At the request of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, other international organisations or other bodies provided for by the Royal Decree, the Directorate for Foreign Affairs may, within the limits and in accordance with the guidelines laid down by the Supreme Authority, decide that a foreigner shall be granted a permit to enter. In particular, the adoption of a permit of entry shall take into account policy considerations. The king may, by way of regulation, assign the decision-making authority to another body. Paragraph 37, first paragraph, new point (g) is replaced by the following: it is discovered that the applicant has provided incorrect information on identity, nationality or asylum grounds. Cape. the title of 5 shall be replaced by the following: Chapter. 5 Access to residence due to particularly strong human considerations or special connection with the Kingdom § 38 is replaced by the following: Residence permit due to particularly strong human considerations or special connection with the Kingdom § 38 first paragraph is replaced by: Residence permit may be granted even if the other conditions of the law are not met if there are particular strong human considerations. § 38, second paragraph, the introductory phrase is replaced by the following: In order to determine whether there are particular strong human considerations, an overall assessment of the case must be made. The repeal of point (b) of the second paragraph of Section 38 may be taken into account, inter alia. Paragraph 38, second paragraph, point (c) is deleted. Paragraph 38, second paragraph, point (d) becomes new point (b). Paragraph 38, third paragraph, shall be replaced by the following: In matters concerning children, the best interests of the child shall be taken into account. Paragraph 38, fourth paragraph, point (b) is replaced by the following: integrational and other societal consequences; § 39 is replaced by the following: § 39 Reference personFor the purposes of this law, reference person means the person with whom the applicant wishes to be reunited or to establish family life. The reference person must be either a) Norwegian, Nordic or EEA nationals residing or intended to reside in the Kingdom; b) alien with a permanent residence permit in the State; c) alien who has or is legally residing in the State with a residence permit that may form the basis of a permanent residence permit; or d) alien who has a residence permit under Section 34 without the termination of the collective protection scheme. Paragraph 40 is deleted. § 40(a) is replaced by the following: It is a condition for a residence permit according to § 44(a), 45(a) and 46(a) that the reference person meets the requirements of § 62 when the reference person has (a) asylum, cf. § 28, (b) Residence permit after admission as a transfer refugee, cf. § 35, third paragraph, point (c) collective protection in a mass migration situation, cf. § 34 (d) residence permits due to special strong human interests or special ties with the Kingdom, see Paragraph 38. Paragraph 40(b) is replaced by the following: § 40(b) Family residence permitA family residence permit deviates from an ordinary residence permit by the fact that a foreigner with a family residence permit cannot be a reference person in family immigration matters, except in cases involving his or her own children under § 41(a) paragraph. 2nd@item: inlistbox The king may grant detailed limitations to the regulation.A family residence permit grants the right to a permanent residence permit when the requirements for granting a permanent residence permit have been met.If it appears that a family residence permit has been granted on the basis of incorrect information, this authorisation may be withdrawn. Paragraph 41 is deleted. Paragraph 41(a) is replaced by the following: § 41(a) Circle of PersonsA foreigner may apply for a family residence permit to be reunited with, or to establish family life with, the related reference person. The circle of persons who may apply for family residence permits is limited to:1. a foreigner over 24 years of age living together in marriage, or plans to live together in marriage, with a person over 24 years of age resident in Norway who is eithera) a Norwegian, Nordic or EEA citizen; unmarried minor children under 15 years of age by a permanent resident in Norway or his/her spouse, where the child has not formed an independent family through permanent living conditions, and where the permanent resident in Norway is eithera) is a Norwegian, Nordic or EEA citizen; b) has been granted a permanent residence permit in Norway as a refugee or c) has a permanent residence permit in Norway or a residence permit granting a permanent residence permit.3. minor aliens for residence in Norway with a permanent resident other than the permanent resident, where the purpose of the family residence permit is adoption, and where the permanent resident in Norway is either (a) a Norwegian, Nordic or EEA citizen (b) has been granted a residence in Norway as a refugee, or (c) has a permanent residence permit in Norway or a permanent residence permit which provides for a permanent residence permit. Paragraph 42 is deleted. Paragraph 42(a) is replaced by the following: § 42(a) Excepted from the requirements of § 43(a), § 44(a), § 45(a) and § 46(a). The exemption also applies to existing spouses and own children of newly-accompanied refugees, and in such cases a derogation from the 24-year rule in paragraph 41(a) may also be granted. 1st@item: inlistbox The King may grant derogations to citizens from additional countries if, in experience, immigration from these countries would not conflict with integration policy considerations. Paragraph 43 is deleted. Paragraph 43(a) is replaced by the following:Section 43(a) General conditions for the granting of family residence permits The following general conditions are laid down:1. The reference person and the applicant must sign on a declaration that the best person is to participate in the integration process of the applicant and also the integration process of any accompanying child.2. The reference person must pass a residence test that measures the ability of the reference person to contribute to the applicant’s integration process. 3rd@item: inlistbox The reference person must be able to demonstrate that the applicant can be depended on and to provide a financial guarantee specified in the regulation. 4th@item: inlistbox The reference person must not, unless specific reasons contradict this, have received assistance under the Social Services Act or the Introduction Act during the last year. 5th@item: inlistbox The reference person must have adequate accommodation of reasonable standard and size. 6th@item: inlistbox Reference person must have been allowed to be DNA tested where, under law, it is necessary to establish, or cancel, that there is a family relationship, cf. § 87. The family residence permit must be granted before entry. Upon entry, an application for a family residence permit may normally not be granted, unless there are strong grounds for doing so. This does not apply, however, if the applicant is legally resident in Norway after another authorisation. Where a family residence permit is conditional on the provision of financial security and financial assistance is subsequently provided to the applicant under the Social Services Act or the Introduction Act, the corresponding amount may be collected by recourse from the reference person. The king may lay down detailed rules on the manner in which such enforcement is to take place. Public sector bodies are obliged to inform the non-resident authorities of matters relating to the applicant and the reference person relevant to family immigration matters. Paragraph 44 is deleted. Paragraph 44(a) is replaced by the following: § 44(a) Conditions for the granting of a family residence permit for spousesFor the granting of a family residence permit for spouses under paragraph 41(a). 1 shall be subject to the following conditions:1. Family residence permits are granted only where the overall relationship of the spouses with Norway is greater than the overall relationship of the spouses with any other country, except where the reference person has had Norwegian citizenship for a minimum of 28 years. In cases where the reference person has come to Norway through adoption and is a Norwegian national, he/she shall be considered a Norwegian national from birth if he/she has come to Norway before the age of 6. Family residence permits are not granted when doubts can arise as to whether the marriage has been concluded at the request of both parties. It is considered doubtful that the marriage has been concluded by free will if the marriage has been concluded between close relatives. 3rd@item: inlistbox Family residence permits are not granted when there is reason to believe that the background to marriage is mainly a stay in Norway. 4th@item: inlistbox Family residence permits are not granted when the reference person has been convicted in the last 10 years for a criminal offence involving a period of 3 months of imprisonment or more, or for violence against the spouse or children. 5th@item: inlistbox Family residence permits are not granted if at the same time no family residence permit is applied for for for the applicant’s children, unless it can be demonstrated that the applicant’s child is resident with a related family in the home Member State and that consideration for the child does not contradict. 6th@item: inlistbox Family residence permits are not granted unless the applicant has passed a language and knowledge test in basic Norwegian and Western understanding. 7th@item: inlistbox Unless exceptional circumstances provide otherwise, it is a condition for the spouses to live together. Eight. An applicant may be refused family residence authorisation if it is most likely that the applicant or his special coal child will be abused or severely exploited. 9th@item: inlistbox If the reference person is allowed to stay in the Kingdom after marriage with several, only one of the spouses may obtain a family residence permit. If the reference person is already married to a resident of the State, family residence permits under this paragraph may not be granted. If the reference person has previously been married to another and it appears most likely that the former spouses intend to continue their lives together, family residence permits may be refused. Paragraph 45 is deleted. Paragraph 45(a) is replaced by the following: § 45(a) Conditions for the granting of family residence permits for own childrenFor the granting of family residence permits for own children under § 41(a) paragraph 2 is subject to the following conditions:1. Family residence permits are not granted if this clearly would be contrary to the best interests of the child. 2nd@item: inlistbox Family residence permits may only be granted in cases where the applicant and one of the applicant’s parents reside in the home Member State if the applicant has the opportunity to achieve such a relationship with Norway that successful integration in Norway is possible. 3rd@item: inlistbox Family residence permits may only be granted to children who have previously fulfilled the requirements of Paragraph 41a(1). 2, but no longer satisfying the requirements, if the child's very special circumstances and the best advocates for this. 4th@item: inlistbox Family residence permits are not granted when the reference person or his/her spouse has been convicted in the last 10 years for a criminal offence involving a period of 3 months of imprisonment or more, or for violence against a spouse or child. 5th@item: inlistbox An applicant may be refused family residence authorisation if it is most likely that the applicant will be abused or severely exploited. Paragraph 46 is deleted. Paragraph 46(a) is replaced by the following: § 46(a) Conditions for the granting of family residence permits for adopted childrenFor the granting of family residence permits for adopted children under paragraph 41(a) 3 shall be subject to the following conditions:1. Family residence permits are subject to the commitment of the reference person to support the applicant until the applicant is 18 years of age.2. Family residence permits are not granted when the reference person or his/her spouse has been convicted in the last 10 years for a criminal offence involving a period of 3 months of imprisonment or more, or for violence against a spouse or child. 3rd@item: inlistbox Consent must be given by the Child, Youth and Family Administration before the child comes to the kingdom. 4th@item: inlistbox Reference person must be Norwegian, Nordic or EEA citizen. 5th@item: inlistbox An applicant may be refused family residence authorisation if it is most likely that the applicant will be abused or severely exploited. Paragraphs 47 to 52 are deleted. § 53, first paragraph, the introductory phrase is replaced by the following: A non-resident who has a family residence permit under paragraph 41(a) above. 1, upon application, a residence permit shall be granted on an independent basis if: § 53, second paragraph, is replaced by: A new residence permit on an independent basis may also be granted on application to a foreigner who has a family residence permit under § 41 a paragraph. 1, if, as a result of the break-in of life, the alien will experience unreasonable difficulties in the home country due to the social and cultural conditions there. Paragraph 56, fourth paragraph, point (b) is deleted. Paragraph 57 of the first paragraph shall be replaced by the following: where the application is highly likely to be granted, the applicant may, on request, be granted a residence permit which runs until the decision is taken. Paragraph 60, first paragraph, is replaced by the following: the first residence permit is granted as a temporary residence permit for up to one year. The duration of an authorisation granted in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 6 shall not exceed the expiry of the authorisation of the reference person, as specified. Paragraph 39. The duration of an authorisation under the provisions of Chapter 3 shall not exceed the length of the employment relationship. Paragraph 60, third paragraph, new point (e) is replaced by the following: a foreigner may withdraw a residence permit in Norway for cash benefits. The king may lay down detailed rules. Paragraph 61, second paragraph, is replaced by the following: A residence permit under §§28 and 34 shall normally be renewed, unless there is a basis for termination or revocation under §§37 or 63. However, a residence permit under Section 34 may not be renewed if it is decided that access to collective protection has lapsed, cf. Paragraph 34, first paragraph. Paragraph 61, third paragraph, is replaced by the following: in the case of authorisation under Chapter 6, the requirement to have children under the age of 15 upon renewal of Section 61, fifth paragraph, shall not apply: Renewal is granted as a one-year temporary residence permit. Paragraph 61, seventh paragraph, is replaced by the following: A foreigner applying for a new residence permit may continue to reside under the same conditions as prior authorisation until the final decision is taken. The non-resident is entitled to do so if he applies for a new authorisation no later than one month before the expiry of the current authorisation and he has been legally resident in accordance with the previous authorisation at least within the last nine months. § 62, first paragraph, the introductory phrase is replaced by the following: A foreigner who has been in the State of temporary residence for the last six years on the basis of a permanent residence permit shall, upon application, be entitled to a permanent residence permit if § 62, first paragraph, point (a) is replaced by the following: the foreigner has not remained outside the State for the last six years for a total of more than six months; § 62, first paragraph, point (d) is replaced: the foreigner has passed a test in Norwegian and social knowledge. The king may provide detailed instructions as to what such a test shall contain. Paragraph 62(e) of the first paragraph shall be replaced by the following: the foreigner has not availed himself of the possibility of withdrawing a residence permit in Norway in return for cash benefits, cf. Paragraph 60, third paragraph, point (e). Paragraph 62(f) of the first paragraph is replaced by the following: the non-resident is not liable to the public. The king may, by way of regulation, provide detailed guidance on what is to be defined as debt due to the public. Paragraph 62(g) of the first paragraph shall be replaced by the following: the stranger has been in full-time employment for two and a half years in the last three years and has not been unemployed for more than half a year in the last three years and has not received social benefits or similar under the Act on Social Services and the Act on Introduction, paragraph 62(h) shall be replaced by the following: the stranger has signed a declaration of integration and active citizenship, or has otherwise indicated acceptance of the content of the declaration. The King may provide detailed instructions for this declaration.§ 62 new second paragraph is replaced by the following: Forced residence at an institution is not considered to be a residence permit in Norway, nor does it form the basis for a permanent residence permit. Paragraph 62 of the present second to fifth paragraphs becomes the third to sixth paragraphs. Paragraph 62, sixth paragraph, shall be replaced by the following: The authorisation shall lapse once the holder has remained outside the kingdom continuously for more than one year. Paragraph 64 of the first paragraph shall be replaced by the following: Refugees legally resident in the Kingdom may, upon application, be issued travel certificates for refugees, for travel outside Norway, unless there are particular reasons against it. A lost travel certificate may be considered a special reason. If the refugee has a travel document issued by a foreign country, this right shall apply only when the refugee has been granted asylum or residence permit, or Norway is obliged under international agreement to issue a travel certificate for refugees. Paragraph 64, second paragraph, is deleted. Paragraph 66(b) of the first paragraph shall be replaced by the following: when the foreigner has been in prison or has been in prison for a period of more than three months under Norwegian law. Similarly, in the case of a special action imposed as a result of a criminal offence referred to in the first paragraph of Section 66, new point (g) shall be replaced by the following: if the foreigner has forced someone to marry at his own request, or has contributed to it, and has been sentenced to do so. § 66 new second paragraph is replaced by the following: If the grounds for expulsion are the first subparagraph, points (e) or (f), the foreigner shall be kept in closed custody with letter and visit control until the expulsion can be executed. Paragraph 66 of the new third paragraph is replaced by the following: Expulsions in matters of unexplained identity may take place in the country of origin of the country of origin. Paragraph 66 of the present second paragraph becomes the fourth paragraph. Paragraph 67(a) of the first paragraph is replaced by the following: when the foreigner has been in prison or has been in prison for a period of more than three months under Norwegian law. Similarly, in the case of a special action imposed as a result of a criminal offence referred to in paragraph 67, new point (f) shall be replaced by the following: if the foreigner has forced someone to marry at his own request, or has contributed to it, and has been sentenced to do so. § 67 new third paragraph is replaced by the following: If the grounds for expulsion are the first subparagraph, points (d) or (e), the foreigner shall be kept in closed custody with letter and visit control until the expulsion can be executed. Paragraph 67 of the new fourth paragraph is replaced by the following: Expulsions in matters of unexplained identity may take place in the country of origin of the country of origin. Paragraph 68(a) of the first paragraph shall be replaced by the following: when the foreigner has been in prison or has been in prison for a period of two years or more under Norwegian law. Similarly, in the case of a special action imposed as a result of a criminal offence referred to in the first paragraph of Section 68, new point (e) shall be replaced by the following: if the foreigner has forced someone to marry at his own request, or has contributed to it, and has been sentenced to do so. § 68 new third paragraph is replaced by the following: If the grounds for expulsion are the first subparagraph, point (c) or point (d), the foreigner shall be kept in closed custody with letter and visit control until the expulsion can be executed. Paragraph 68 of the new fourth paragraph is replaced by the following: Expulsions in matters of unexplained identity may take place in the country of origin of the country of origin. Paragraph 69 is replaced by the following: Protection against expulsion for Norwegian citizens § 69, second paragraph, is deleted. Paragraph 70 is deleted. Paragraph 71, second paragraph, shall be replaced by the following: the expulsion shall prevent the subsequent entry into the State. The entry ban may be made permanent or limited in time, but not for a period of less than two years. The entry ban may be lifted upon application if new circumstances so warrant. Paragraph 73, first paragraph, new point (c) is replaced by the following: the foreigner himself has taken a difficult position with the aim of avoiding the expulsion from Norway. Paragraph 73, second paragraph, is replaced by the following: A non-resident may not be sent to an area where he would be in a situation as referred to in the second paragraph of Section 28. The protection provided for in this provision shall also apply in the case of situations referred to in points (a) and (b) of the first subparagraph. Paragraph 73, third paragraph, is replaced by the following: The protection after the first and second subparagraphs also applies to the dispatch to an area where the person concerned would not be safe from being forwarded to such an area as referred to in the first and second paragraphs of Section 28. Paragraph 75, second paragraph, is replaced by the following: the law is implemented by the King, the Ministry, the Directorate of Foreign Affairs, the police, Norwegian Foreign Offices and other public authorities. If this is not directly apparent by law, the King shall determine by regulation the duties and powers of the various public bodies under the law. Paragraph 76 of the first paragraph is replaced by the following: Decisions taken by the law of the police, foreign stations or other administrative bodies may be appealed to the Directorate of Foreign Affairs. Decisions under the law of the Directorate for Foreign Affairs may be appealed to the Administrative Court. Paragraph 76, fourth paragraph, is replaced by the following: The Ministry may decide that decisions taken by the Foreign Affairs Directorate in favour of the foreigner shall be reviewed by the Administrative Court. The decision shall be taken not later than four months after the adoption of the decision in writing and shall state the reasons on which it is based. Paragraph 76 of the fifth paragraph is replaced by the following: The King may delegate routine immigration policy issues to the police, but this does not apply to matters under Chapters IV and VI of the Administrative Act. Paragraph 76, sixth paragraph, is replaced by the following: The king may by regulation lay down detailed rules on the preparation of cases after the fourth paragraph. Paragraphs 77 to 79 are deleted. Paragraph 83, second paragraph, is replaced by the following: Upon entry and until the correct identity is recorded, foreigners are obliged to help clarify their identity. The non-resident authorities may also subsequently impose such an obligation on the non-resident if there is reason to believe that the registered identity is not the right one. A foreigner cannot be required to help clarify his identity in a way that conflicts with a need for protection. Non-residents who provide incorrect or incorrect information under this paragraph may be rejected. Paragraph 84 of the second subparagraph shall be replaced by the following: the bodies referred to in points (a) to (f) of the first subparagraph may, without prejudice to professional secrecy, inform the body dealing with matters under the law here, or bodies referred to in the first subparagraph, where this is deemed necessary. Paragraph 84 of the present second paragraph shall become the third paragraph. Section 85 is replaced by the following: Background check on the case of family residence permits, cf. Paragraph 40(a) of the first paragraph of paragraph 85 shall be replaced by the following: the police may, as part of the preparation of a case referred to in § 40(b), 41(a), 43(a), 44(a), 45(a) and 46(a), use background information about the reference person or the reference person with whom family establishment has been carried out. Paragraph 85 of the second paragraph shall be replaced by the following: If the police has information of good repute relevant to the issue of family residence permits, pursuant to § 40(b), 41(a), 43(a), 44(a), 45(a) and 46(a), an opinion shall be given to the body that decides on the case. Paragraph 86 of the first paragraph is replaced by the following: If the Directorate of Foreign Affairs finds that there is particular reason to examine the conduct of the reference person in order to determine whether a visa should be refused in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 10, an opinion may be obtained from the police on matters of importance to assess this. Paragraph 86, second paragraph, shall be replaced by the following: The king may provide detailed rules in the regulation on the good repute information to be provided to the Directorate of Foreign Affairs after the first paragraph and on the design of the police’s opinion. Paragraph 87 of the first paragraph shall be replaced by the following: When it is necessary in legal cases to establish whether a family relationship exists, the applicant and the reference person shall be requested to carry out a DNA test. Paragraph 87, second paragraph, is replaced by the following: If the applicant or the reference person rejects the request for a DNA test, the application shall be rejected. The results of such DNA tests are stored in a national DNA register, cf. § 90.§ 88, first paragraph, is replaced by the following: If, in a case where an application for asylum or family immigration has been promoted, it is not possible to establish with reasonable certainty that the applicant indicates the correct age, the foreigner may be requested to be examined in order to clarify the age. The results of the investigation shall be assessed in relation to the other information in the case. Paragraph 88, second paragraph, shall be replaced by the following: If the foreigner refuses to be examined, the application shall be rejected. Paragraph 88, third paragraph, is replaced by the following: The King may, in its regulation, lay down detailed rules for the conduct of the age survey. Paragraph 90 tenth paragraph is replaced by the following: When the Administrative Court has taken a decision requiring the foreigner to leave the kingdom, it may instruct the police to postpone the implementation. The Administrative Court may instruct the police to postpone implementation if such a decision has been taken by the Directorate. The Administrative Court may instruct the police to postpone the implementation of a decision of the Directorate in the Ministry's field of action, where the decision requires the foreigner to leave the State. The Administrative Court may instruct the Foreign Affairs Directorate to postpone the implementation of a specific type of decision requiring the foreigner to leave the State, pending amendments to the law or regulation. Paragraph 92, third paragraph, is replaced by the following: In the case referred to in the fourth paragraph of Section 76, the foreigner is entitled to free counsel without examination. Paragraph 94 is deleted. Section 95 is replaced by the following: Accommodation in the application for protection and the legal status of the applicant § 95 first paragraph is replaced by the following: A foreigner seeking protection shall be accommodated in closed reception until the identity has been clarified, cf. § 107, and shall then be offered for further accommodation. This also applies to foreigners considered to pose a safety risk or a threat to fundamental national interests, to foreigners considered to be mentally unstable, to aliens with a serious disease with a high risk of infection, to foreigners with criminal scrolls and to foreigners who have been refused protection pending their departure. The provisions of this paragraph shall be applied only where this will not conflict with the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Section 95 of the second paragraph is replaced by the following: The applicant is not entitled to take up work until the application is settled. Paragraph 95 of the present second and third paragraphs becomes the new third and fourth paragraphs. Paragraph 98 is replaced by the following: the first paragraph of Section 98 shall be replaced by the following: The Norwegian authorities shall cooperate with the High Commissioner for Refugees in accordance with Article 35 of the Refugee Convention and shall, inter alia, facilitate the exercise by the High Commissioner for Refugees of the obligation to supervise compliance with the provisions of the Refugee Convention. § 98 (b) Appointment, training, etc.The municipality of residence, or the intermunicipal association of which the municipality of residence is part, shall appoint a representative of the minor as soon as they have become aware that the minor is in a situation as referred to in § 98 (a). The representative shall be appointed by the municipality of residence or intermunicipal association of which the municipality of residence is part in the jurisdiction of which the minor has permanent residence. The municipality of residence, or the intercommunal association of which the municipality of residence is part, shall provide the representatives of its district with the necessary training guidance and assistance, and supervise the representatives of its district. The municipality of residence, or the intercommunal association of which the municipality of residence is part, shall notify the Directorate of Foreign Affairs of who is appointed as a representative. Paragraph 98(c) is replaced by the following: § 98(c) Who may be appointed as a representativeThe person appointed as a representative must be suitable for the assignment and consent to the appointment. The related relatives, spouse or cohabitant of the minor may not be representatives. The person appointed as a representative shall provide a police record. The certificate shall state whether the person is intentional, accused, orderly or convicted of an infringement of the penalties imposed by the Child Care Certificate, as provided for. the first paragraph of Section 39 of the Police Register Act. The certificate shall be exhaustive in accordance with § 41 nr. 1st@item: inlistbox The information contained in the police attestation shall be included in the suitability assessment after the first sentence of the first subparagraph. Paragraph 98(d) of the third paragraph shall be replaced by the following: The King may, by way of regulation, lay down detailed rules for the cover of expenditure on interpreters. Paragraph 98(e) shall be replaced by the following: § 98(e) The obligation to hear the minor child aged 7 years old, and younger children who are able to form their own views, shall be informed and given the opportunity to speak before the representative takes a decision on a case concerning the child. The child’s opinion shall be weighted according to the child’s age and maturity. The king may lay down detailed rules. Paragraph 98(f) shall be replaced by the following: § 98(f) Remuneration of the mandate of the representative and reimbursement of expenditureThe representative shall be entitled to compensation for the work as a representative and shall be entitled to cover the necessary expenditure in connection with the mandate of the representative. Reimbursement and expenditure are covered by the municipality of residence, or intermunicipal association of which the municipality of residence is part, in the jurisdiction where the minor has permanent residence. Paragraph 98g of the second paragraph shall be replaced by the following: An appointed representative may, at reasonable notice to the municipality of residence, or an intercommunal association of which the municipality of residence is part, require that the assignment be terminated as a representative. The municipality of residence, or the intercommunal association of which the municipality of residence is part, shall exempt an appointed representative from the assignment if the best interests of the minor so require. The duties of the representative shall not cease until a new representative has been appointed. Paragraph 99, first paragraph, shall be replaced by the following: A coercive agent may only be used where there is sufficient reason to do so. Paragraph 99, second paragraph, is deleted. § 100, first paragraph, is replaced by the following: Photographs, fingerprints and DNA profile of a foreigner as § 100, second paragraph, are to be taken: Fingerprints and photographs taken in accordance with this paragraph may be recorded electronically in a register. The king may lay down detailed rules concerning the processing of the data, including the keeping, use and deletion of data in the register. The police may use the register for the investigation of one or more acts which, as a whole, may result in a higher sentence than three months in prison. § 100 new fourth paragraph is replaced by the following: DNA profile taken with this paragraph can be recorded electronically in a register. The king may lay down detailed rules concerning the processing of the data, including the keeping, use and deletion of data in the register. The police may use the register for the investigation of one or more acts which, as a whole, may result in a higher sentence than three months in prison. The foreign administration and the police may use the register in connection with the handling of foreign affairs. Section 100 of the present fourth and fifth paragraphs becomes the new fifth and sixth paragraphs of Section 100 of the fifth paragraph: A decision to take a photograph, fingerprint or DNA profile is taken by a police officer, a foreign station or the Foreign Affairs Directorate. § 103, first paragraph, the introductory phrase is replaced by the following: an examination should be made of the foreigner's person, dwelling, room or other place of storage if there are reasonable grounds to suspect that the foreigner's second paragraph of Section 103 is replaced by the following: The decision to investigate shall, as far as possible, be in writing and shall state the subject matter, the purpose of the investigation and the scope of the investigation. An oral decision shall be recorded as soon as possible. Before carrying out the investigation, the decision shall, as far as possible, be read out or presented to the non-resident. If there is no written decision, the matter and the purpose of the investigation shall be disclosed orally as far as possible. Paragraph 104, first paragraph, is replaced by the following: If there is doubt as to the identity of the foreigner, or there are grounds to suspect that the foreigner conceals or retains information about his identity, seizure of travel documents, tickets or other material which may help clarify or document the identity. Similarly, in case of doubt as to the place of previous residence. Paragraph 104, second paragraph, shall be replaced by the following: where it is likely that the non-resident will refrain from implementing a decision, seizures of travel documents and other material shall be made which can demonstrate the identity of the non-resident. Correspondingly, a seizure of tickets and money or other economic resources may be made to cover the costs that the foreigner is obliged to cover in connection with the expatriation. The king may lay down detailed rules on the amount to be seized. § 106, first paragraph, the introductory phrase is replaced by the following: A foreigner may be apprehended, imprisoned or held in closed reception if § 106, first paragraph, point (d) is replaced by the following: there is a decision on expulsion and the foreigner has not complied with the obligation to notify pursuant to § 105, § 106, third paragraph, is replaced by the following: Attack is decided by the police officer, the director of foreign affairs or the chief of police. When there is a danger of a stay, a police officer may make an attack. If the police want to keep the affected person, they must be brought to justice with a request for imprisonment as soon as possible, and as far as possible the day after the attack. The Criminal Procedures Act §§ 174 to 191 applies as far as they apply. Prisoning after the first subparagraph may be decided for a maximum of 3 months at a time. Paragraph 106, fourth paragraph, is replaced by the following: Total prison term may not exceed one year. Prison for the preparation or execution of a broadcast may not exceed 12 weeks if the foreigner does not cooperate in the execution of the broadcast or there are delays in obtaining the necessary documents from the authorities of another country or if the decision on imprisonment has been taken on the basis of point (g) of the first subparagraph. Prisoning may not exceed 18 months unless the foreigner has been expelled as a result of a criminal or special reaction or is imprisoned in accordance with point (g) of the first subparagraph. § 107 is replaced by the following: Closed receipt § 107, first paragraph, is replaced by the following: As a general rule, a foreigner who is apprehended and imprisoned in accordance with the first paragraph of Section 106 shall be placed in closed reception, cf. Section 95. § 107, fourth paragraph, the introductory phrase is replaced by the following: When the police find it appropriate to implement Section 90, or to maintain calm, order or security, the new eleventh paragraph of Section 107 may be replaced by the following: In cases where the foreigner has been placed in closed reception by the police, the matter may be brought before the Directorate for Foreign Affairs. § 107 new 12th paragraph is replaced by the following: In cases where the foreigner has been placed in closed receipt by the Directorate for Foreign Affairs, the matter may be brought before the Administrative Court. § 107 new thirteenth paragraph is replaced by the following: Decisions on involuntary residence at closed reception may be taken for a maximum of 3 months at a time and may then be renewed up to three times. Paragraph 107 of the present eleventh paragraph becomes a new fourteenth paragraph. § 108, second paragraph, the introductory phrase is replaced by the following: With a fine or imprisonment of up to two years or both, the indemnification sentence is replaced by: Paragraph 108, second paragraph, new point (d): intentional or grossly negligent use of the labour of a foreigner when the foreigner is not required to have a permit under the law. Paragraph 108, third paragraph, introductory wording is replaced by the following: With a fine or imprisonment of up to four years, the introductory paragraph of Section 108 is replaced by the following: With a fine or imprisonment of up to six years, the introductory paragraph of Section 108 is replaced by a sentence of the ninth paragraph of Section 108: In the event of suspicion of a criminal offence under this paragraph, the Director of Foreign Affairs shall report the situation immediately when there is reason to believe that an infringement of point (a) or point (a) of the first subparagraph has occurred, by using the labour force of a non-resident who is not authorised by the law. Paragraph 108, tenth paragraph, is deleted. Paragraph 119, third paragraph, shall be replaced by the following: An appeal may be brought against the decision of the administrative court. Paragraph 120, eighth paragraph, is replaced by the following: the Directorate for Foreign Affairs shall take a decision to revoke after the second paragraph. The decision may be appealed to the administrative court.§ 121, third paragraph, shall be replaced by the following: case of expulsion following points (a) and (c) of the first subparagraph must be brought on entry or within seven working days at the latest. If the expulsion proceedings have not been brought within seven working days, a non-resident who does not have the right of residence under this Chapter may be expelled by decision of the Directorate of Foreign Affairs in accordance with the rules laid down in point (c) of the first subparagraph. The decision may be appealed to the administrative court.§ 124, third paragraph, is replaced by the following: The Foreign Affairs Directorate shall take a decision on expulsion under the provisions of Sections 122 and 123, and shall also decide on the application for access to the kingdom of a foreigner who has been expelled. Case to be decided by the Directorate of Foreign Affairs is prepared by the police. Decisions of the Directorate for Foreign Affairs may be appealed to the Administrative Court. Paragraph 125 is replaced by the following: In extending the EEA Agreement to new Contracting Parties, the King shall refer the matter to the Stortinget for consideration in view of the need for specific legislation concerning new Contracting Parties. Only when the need has been identified may the King provide for transitional arrangements derogating from the provisions of this Chapter. II The law shall enter into force from the time of the king's decision." Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to make the necessary proposals to transfer the tasks currently in the Foreign Affairs Study to an Administrative Court.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: «The government is asked to make the necessary proposals to ensure that the processing time in the foreign administration is significantly reduced.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make the necessary proposals to increase the maintenance requirement for family immigration to 5 G and to grant permits only if the reference person is a Norwegian national or has a permanent residence permit in Norway.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit the necessary proposals with reinforcements on the basis of a permanent residence permit, in order to increase the residence requirement from 3 to 6 years.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit the necessary proposals to initiate the design of closed reception for asylum seekers who do not provide the correct identity or refuse to assist in establishing their identity, or are considered a threat to national security and order, or who have applied for international protection in other countries of the Schengen area or have been refused their applications and are required to return.’; Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government requests the submission of a proposal for a law on closed reception for asylum seekers who do not provide the correct identity or refuse to assist in establishing their identity, or who are considered a threat to national security and order, or who have applied for international protection in other countries of the Schengen area or have received a refusal and are required to return.’; Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit the necessary proposals to ensure that decisions on residence under asylum and refugee rules are repealed if he/she has been on holiday in countries/areas from which he/she has fled up to five years after the granting of the residence permit.’; Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to make the necessary proposals to ensure that children are not used as interpreters for their superiors in meetings with Norwegian public establishments or establishments which have an operating contract with the public.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals prohibiting the marriage of cousins and cousins.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up. The Committee had set up: Document 8:137 LS [[Law on Foreign Affairs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e10875	The left has notified that they support this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e10891	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Morten Ørsal Johansen on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law 15 May 2008 No 35 on the admission of foreigners to the State and their residence here is amended as follows: New Section 27(b) shall be replaced by the following: § 27(b) Measures in the event of a breach of the terms of the residence permit for au pair or the imposition of punishment or special reaction If a host family seriously or repeatedly violates the terms of or in accordance with the law here on the residence permit for au pair, the Director of Foreign Affairs may decide that no residence permit shall be granted to au pair of the host family concerned. The decision shall be valid for one, two or five years, depending on the nature, scale and duration of the relationship. The same applies if a person in the host family is subject to punishment or special reaction for a condition that may result in a prison sentence for more than three months and the relationship has been committed against the person who was au pair with him at the time of the offence. In such cases, the decision may be valid for up to 10 years. The first subparagraph shall apply mutatis mutandis if the host family intentionally or grossly negligently infringes obligations laid down in or under the Tax Payments Act § 5-4, first and fourth paragraphs. Decisions after the first to third subparagraphs shall be without prejudice to the right of residence under Chapter 13.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e10911	Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Committee had called upon the Grand Duchy to take such a decision to: law on changes in the Foreign Affairs Act (abuse of aupair system, etc.) I In Law 15 May 2008 No 35 on the admission of non-residents to the Kingdom and their residence here is amended as follows: Paragraph 27(b) is added as follows: § 27 b Action in the event of a breach of the terms of the au pair residence permit or the imposition of penalties or special reaction If a host family seriously or repeatedly violates the terms of, or in accordance with, the au pair residence permit law, the Directorate of Foreign Affairs may decide not to grant an au pair residence permit to the host family concerned. The decision shall be valid for one, two or five years, depending on the nature, scale and duration of the relationship. The same applies if a person in the host family is subject to punishment or special reaction for a condition that may result in a prison sentence for more than three months and the relationship has been committed against the person who was au pair with him at the time of the offence. In such cases, the decision may be valid for up to 10 years. Decisions following the first or second subparagraph shall be without prejudice to the right of residence under Chapter 13. Paragraph 68, second paragraph, is replaced by the following: If a criminal offence was committed before the foreigner was granted a permanent residence permit, § 67, first paragraph, points (a) and (b) and the second paragraph apply mutatis mutandis. Paragraph 90, first paragraph, is replaced by the following: Decisions on the expulsion or expulsion of a non-resident having no residence permit or right of residence under Chapter 13 or a Nordic citizen who has not resided in the State for more than three months may be taken into account without delay. Decisions on the expulsion or expulsion of a foreigner with the right of residence under Section 111 of the Foreign Affairs Act may be taken immediately. II The law applies from the time the King rules. The king may bring into force the individual provisions at different times. The left has notified that they support this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e10973	It shall be counted against other paragraphs of I and II.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e10983	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e10993	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e11150	Only I and Section 6 shall be deleted. The Christian People's Party has announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e11164	It shall be counted against other paragraphs of I and II.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e11174	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e11184	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e11192	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Øyvind Korsberg, on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 3, from Øyvind Hope on behalf of the Christian People's Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2 from the Progress Party and the Right. Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The Size Transmits Prop. 142 L back to the government, and ask that the question of the proposed delegation of regulatory competence to the Media Regulatory Authority be in accordance with Section 100 of the Basic Law, be examined in more detail before the matter may be re-examined.» [[2012-2013]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e11209	The proposal of the Party of Advancement and the Right implies that Prop. 142 L is returned to the government. We vote for it first, before we consider any other proposals and the Committee's recommendations. The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e11223	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the liquidation of the Media Ownership Act and, in substance, to propose any adaptations aimed at ensuring media pluralism within the scope and management of the Competition Act.’; The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e11242	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law 13 June 1997 No 53 on media ownership is amended as follows: the first paragraph of Section 9 is replaced by the following: the media regulator may intervene in the acquisition of a holding in undertakings which are engaged in or exercise ownership of the media as referred to in the first paragraph of Section 3, if the acquirer, alone or in cooperation with others, holds or acquires a significant holding in the national media market, which is contrary to the objective of Section 1 of the Act. [[media ownership law]] § 11 Regional media markets are repealed.» The Progress Party, the Right and the Left have warned that they subsidiaryly support the proposal of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e11437	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Progress Party, the Right Party and the Left also want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e11451	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e11460	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Ib Thomsen on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, from Olemic Thommess on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests the review of the scientific literature tool in order to ensure the continued development of vocational books and teaching materials in Norwegian and, as appropriate, to return to the Stortinget with proposals to that effect.’ The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e11486	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the literature instrument to be reviewed by the government with a view to ensuring that all industry actors have a level playing field for digital production and distribution.’ The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e11616	The party of progress, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e11628	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e11642	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e11650	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Ib Thomsen on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 3, from Ib Thomsen on behalf of the Progress Party There is a vote on proposal No. 3 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the termination of the book agreement and exemption from the Competition Act for the book industry.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e11678	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposals No. 1 and 2, from the Party of Prosperity, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government requests an unbiased platform-neutral rate for value added tax in the field of literature’.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government requests the provision of platform-independent arrangements for the purchase and rental of books, including the cleaning up of definitions in order to ensure the same literary status as paperbooks, and submit them to the Stortinget.’ The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e11733	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e11743	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e11907	It is first voted on in New § 8-3. The Progress Party, the Right and the Left have announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e11921	The other paragraphs under I and II and III are then added.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e11931	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e11941	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e11949	The President recalls that there was a vote on the committee's recommendation at the beginning of the discussion of this and the next case. There remains to be a vote on the proposals No. 1-3, tabled by Sverre Myrli on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the context of the annual budgets, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence shall be provided with an overview of the operational status, capabilities, capacities and resources of the Special Forces.’;» The Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e11968	There will then be a vote on the proposals No. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government agrees that the Ministry of Defence may establish a joint leadership of the Special Forces of the Defence and transfer the Special Command of the Defence/Hearer's Hunter Command and the Marine Hunter Command from the respective Army and Naval Defense to the Special Forces of the Defence.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The size requests the creation of a separate budget chapter for the new Special Forces area of activity.’ The President assumes that the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e12063	In the course of the debate, Mr Staahle put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to propose amendments to increase the service supplement to 1 G and to increase the distribution compensation to 0,5 G over a period of 5 years, by 2018 at the latest, and that future changes thereafter follow adjustments to the basic amount of public security [[G]] Votation: The proposal by the Progress Party was not accepted by 74 votes to 23. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 00.21.42]] The Committee had set up: The following changes are being made to the 2013 government budget: Expenditure1720Shared management and command apparatus1Operating expenditure, increased by 346,000 from NOK 3 112 185 000 to NOK 3 112 531 0001725Shared institutions and expenditure under the Defence Staff1Operating expenditure, increased by 232 000 from NOK 2 022 720 000 to NOK 2 022 952 0001731Shared operating expenditure, increased by 3 889 000 from NOK 5 607 269 000 to NOK 5 611 158 0001732Shared operating expenditure, increased by 10 000 from NOK 3 610 045 000 to NOK 3 611 106 0001733Air defence1Operating expenditure, increased by 1009 000 from NOK 4 301 518 000 from NOK 4 301 518 000 to NOK 4 302 527 0001734The operating expenditure, increased by 590 000 from NOK 1 094 503 000 to NOK 1 094 093 0001740Shared operating expenditure, increased by 609 000from NOK 2 009 000 from NOK 2 097 000 from NOK 2 017 000 from NOK
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-17.ana.ud2592e12444	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
