ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e28	The representatives Anne Tingelstad Wøien and Ola Elvestuen, who have been on leave, have again taken their seats.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e42	Thank you very much. We look forward to this. The representative, Mr Liv Signe Navarsete, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e47	On behalf of the representatives of Marit Arnstad, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, Geir Pollestad and myself, I would like to make a proposal on customs protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e52	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will draw attention to the fact that the meeting continues beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 and 2 are treated as a whole. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e79	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be conducted over one day with a total speaking time of 6 hours, excluding lines and 3-minute speeches. The number time is divided into groups as follows: Working Party 115 minutes, Right 100 minutes, Progress Party 60 minutes, Christian People's Party 20 minutes, Centre Party 20 minutes, Left 20 minutes, Socialist Left Party 15 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. The changes in the Rules of Procedure are proposed as follows: six lines of reply are given after the speeches of the main speakers of the political groups, parliamentary leaders and members of the government, and four lines of reply are given after the other speakers with 10 minutes of speaking time or more – within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e90	Let me turn the clock a little bit back to a few weeks before the election – maybe a few months too – when there were predictions about what would happen if there was a government shift in the Norwegian economy. What would happen then? Well, it would be chaos, it would be economic disorder, and there was a lot of risk. I think we can establish after the government of Solberg has presented its addition to the budget, and we are now discussing a final majority vote from the Financial Committee, that there is order in the Norwegian economy, at least for budgetary reasons. There are some warning lights in the economy in general, but there are challenges that this government has to deal with, this accumulation has to take hold of, just like any other government has to do. In the cooperation agreement between the four parties, priority is given to priority areas, not least to strengthening the economy in the long term. It's about knowledge, about research, and it's about a business policy that stimulates us to get more and more permanent jobs. It followed up the government in addition to the budget, and it is further strengthened in the agreement that the four parties negotiated here in the Stortinget. We also assumed that we should strengthen the conditions for groups that are exposed in our own society. We should strengthen treatment for those with drug problems, we should strengthen psychiatry and rehabilitation. That was the case in the draft budget presented, and it was further strengthened in the negotiations carried out by the four parties. The justice sector is strengthened, care for the elderly is strengthened, and we have a shift in family policy. One of the top experts in exactly the area, Frode Thuen, said earlier this year to the Newspaper – under the then government: Family policy has gone too lye and cold water for several years. It has turned with a new government and a new majority, not least in the area of family protection. Then to the warning lights that light up. The NHO has today come up with its latest economic survey for 2013, and they are warning that their member companies are seeing the warning lights flashing separately. Cost challenges have become significant, private consumption is being reduced, oil activities are not giving the same growth impulses to the Norwegian economy, and orders are increasingly going abroad. I noticed that the Political Spokesman of the Advance Party, Gjermund Hagesetter, told me a little about what he thought the government should do with these challenges. From the Christian People's Party, I would say we have clear expectations that the government will respond to any acute challenges, not least related to specific industries, but it must also be combined with a long-term policy that strengthens the foundations of the Norwegian economy in the future. Then it is important for me and the Christian People's Party that the measures that may be included are measures specifically targeted at those areas of the Norwegian economy and the Norwegian business community that are particularly struggling – not primarily a wide range of general schemes, but addressing the challenges of providing support and facilitating increased industrial development. From the Christian People's Party we had clear ambitions to change the budget in several areas. We wanted a family policy that allows for freedom of choice. I record that since there could be no debate about economic disorder, the opposition – at the Workers' Party in particular – has pointed out that there is an immature family policy that is now being presented. What's immature? It's very modern that parents are home to the child is one year, but if you're home a little bit longer, maybe for one year and nine months, you're over in the immature. This is the case when one party feels entitled to define what the Norwegian family life should look like. From the Christian People's Party we're very happy that we've got a change on just this. Everyone who knows the Christian People's Party also knows that looking beyond the borders of our own country in solidarity with a world how many are asking themselves if they have bread enough on the table tomorrow – that solidarity is to be maintained. That's why it was also important for us to be able to say that in Norway we put ten cents out of ten dollars to the poor of the world. This does not mean that we are not concerned with the effect of assistance – of course we are. But this is going to go hand in hand, it's not the opposite. Tax class 2 is a tax class that has worked for several years. The Stoltenberg government proposed that it be removed; it was also maintained by the current government. We've got tax class 2, albeit in a reduced form. I'm surprised by the argument that the previous government made up for tax class 2. We will have our own tax debate later, but I would nevertheless like to inform you that if you look at those degrees to facilitate a debate based on which groups use different welfare schemes at all times, a big ball has been opened. It should then be known that this is happening in many countries, that is what you do when you want to attack general welfare schemes. We're also busy getting a green tax change. Through the negotiations, we have had a greener tax shift than at a very, very long time in Norway. This development – in addition to getting a green tax commission – we look forward to continuing. To the extent that it's still going to be very tax-free, our answer is that it's also going to be paired with a green tax shift that makes environmentally friendly behavior premium. One of the most unsocial cuts presented by the Stoltenberg government was cut against the heavily nurturing in the whole of the municipality of Norway. All under 67 years of age who benefit from those services indirectly got a clear cut in their services. We are very pleased that, together with the Right, the Advance Party and the Left, we have been able to straighten it out and thus indirectly strengthen the local economy and the service provision for those who may need it the most. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee on Budgetary Cooperation – this applies to all parties. We've had very short time to get the budget into port, but it's gone. I particularly thank the cooperation parties, the Right, the Advance Party and the Left, for a good cooperation and – I would also like to say – a good result. A fairly good starting point has become even better. With this, I recommend all the majority proposals in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e122	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e127	I want to grasp what the representative said about today's various reports that the Norwegian economy can face a more difficult situation. I agree that we expect the government to follow closely. He was also concerned about what measures could help in this way — the instruments to be considered — and he was concerned that broad, general schemes that were not targeted were critical. I want to ask him for a more detailed comment on the tax cuts that are in this budget, and that it is argued to be a very stimulating thing for business. The inheritance tax has no effect on business, confirms the Ministry of Finance in its answer, and it is tax cuts that lead to a considerable increase in social differences if we see this over time. How will the Christian People's Party look at the kind of instruments – tax cuts – that, according to the Minister of Finance Party, are the main instrument for meeting perhaps tougher times in the Norwegian economy? Then I think about both alignment and distribution as a result of such tax relief.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e136	What tax reliefs provide the best overall impact on the Norwegian economy is a controversial issue – and has been. But we're concerned with knowledge-based taxes in the sense that where we know it works, we also have to be positive to look at it. I'm not quite sure – when you talk about cohesion, which I understand the representative Gahr Støre is involved – whether you contribute to increased cohesion by adding extra taxes to, for example, the EU. Norwegian ownership. I'm not sure about that jam. Here we also have to have two thoughts in our head at the same time. It can't be that we're just thinking about what's the most equalizing thing, if at the same time it discriminates against Norwegian ownership and in the long run, our ability to get a well-functioning business.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e143	I don't talk in my question about adding new taxes to anyone. The question is the arrangement for any new tax relief. We have a budget that shows that 4 pst. 40 pst of all the North shall be given. of the cuts. This is a first estimate, and this will continue. There's a small difference at first, but over time it'll increase. We have seen it in our neighbouring country Sweden and in other countries. The question of the Christian People's Party as a budgetary partner, with a budgetary agreement, to be consulted: what will be the Christian People's Party's contribution to the main thrust of this instrument?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e150	As I said – and replied – we want a device against business that ensures Norwegian business and Norwegian jobs in the future. After all, what happens to e.g. taxes on wealth. If it is that it pays for foreigners to own Norwegian businesses – instead of Norwegians – I think it will damage the balance in the long term. I expect that this is also some reason why the red-green – quite surprising – in our reduced company tax by 1 pst. After all, it's all a tax that goes to companies that already have a profit.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e155	The government cuts into a series of measures that go to the feeding effort around the country. It is cut in regional policy instruments, cut in Innovation Norway and a number of cuts for other instruments. These are funds that go not least to small farms around the country, for example. professional, travel and other activities. Market, we know from experience, doesn't solve everything. There is a need to correct it. National schemes also do not always take place. There is a need for measures to support local needs. Does not the Christian People's Party see that these cuts will go out on small businesses throughout the country, and is the Christian People's Party pleased with the change of direction we see in this budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e164	We have a lot of instruments targeting the districts, that's absolutely right. I think I'd like to say that we can go through how these instruments actually work, and who gets the best out of them. At the same time, through this budgetary agreement, we have significantly strengthened infrastructure, which is the most sought-after business. For example, road maintenance means incredibly much to many companies, not least those who have to transport their goods. We were given clear insights into this in the Financial Committee's hearing. I don't want to set this up against each other -- both of them are something we need. But I'm very concerned that the tool usage we actually have, and on which there's still considerable money left, also turns out to work. Then I'm going to admit that we've also strengthened the FUNN, and it's going to benefit everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e171	One important reason why the Left has chosen to present an own budget proposal this year, as before in the opposition, is to show that we have policies and economic priorities that are coherent and that we have solutions that are better and go beyond other options. A side effect of owning a budget is also that we have a holistic scheme to fight for in this room, and that we don't primarily vote for proposals and cut us initially in disagreement, like, for example. a series of cultural cuts and cuts for aid to Africa. The Christian People's Party has chosen the opposite approach and will today necessarily give the primary voice for priorities they disagree with. So my question is, why has the Christian People's Party chosen this way to do it?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e179	I do not know whether there was a strong expectation in Mr Breivik's question about what our primary draft budget would look like, so that he feels a sense of complacency about not not seeing it. That's in case good, and I don't ignore that we'll come back with it on the next occasion. But this time, with as little time as we know we had at our disposal, we in the Christian People's Party chose to influence the budget – as we entered into negotiations with, among other things. Left over – to get it in a direction we thought was important for the country. We think we've done pretty well, so we're not very disappointed with the model we chose, but I'm registering the Left's wish to get a primary draft budget from the Christian People's Party and take it with me for later use.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e186	The President will request that the replicants arrive later – we have a long day ahead of us, and it is fine if we move on in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e189	To say that the family policy in Norway has gone too far and cold water after the expansion of 60,000 kindergartens and the expansion of the age of fathers' ability to be at home with children, I think it is exotic. The Christian People's Party's cuts in property taxes and inheritance taxes are to be paid in full with real money. One of the most important contributors is Ivar and Magda Nilsen from Alta. They have six children. Magda is at home with these children, and with the budget we are discussing today, the Christian People's Party ensures that Magda and her children lose $23,240 a year. What will the representative Syversen say to Magda and Ivar, who will have to pay for the budgetary settlement of the Christian People's Party next year, and will the representative here also think that the term 'lut and cold water' can be appropriate?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e198	Now I'm not the one who used the term "lye and cold water". I quoted one of those who actually knows best about the family policy area in this country, Frode Thuen. There is probably no impression on the representative Serigstad Valen, but that is the way it is. Then it's referred to an example that I guess isn't exactly allowed to check here and now. But if so, for example: is about the child benefit supplement, it is clear that it is not included in the budget. At the same time, we have secured tax class 2, and it may well weigh up to some of the cuts that the representative Serigstad Valen refers to. It was a cut representative Serigstad Valen seemed appropriate, which too many also felt to be going for lye and cold water.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e205	Through the election campaign, it was always claimed by the civil society that the red-greens were unable to prioritise. Seven out of ten oil crowns were used incorrectly, the review melody was among other things. from the Prime Minister who has now contributed to the positioning of the Christian People's Party. That's why part of us got a little surprised that the same prime minister went straight into the Pension Fund and picked up the 4 billion. kr needed to keep the tax havens. So the government didn't even have the ability to prioritize within the $114 billion. kr that was in the budget. The civil agreement maintains the use of oil money. We have looked at the additional proposition according to the professional economic rationale for increasing oil money use now. We can't find it. On the contrary, we find sentences such as that the price of the crown is a labile, and that in the event of a change of pace in the use of money, there is a danger that the crown will strengthen again. Can the representative of the Syversen help us explain what is the economic argument that he is going to vote for today for increased oil money use?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e214	I have to say, when the Labour Party asks for first aid from the Christian People's Party, I would probably consider going elsewhere if you needed help right in this budget, all the time we stand for two different alternatives. The use of oil money must be very pleasant for the Workers' Party to see – that the new government will stick to the common rules defined by the Stortinget. So you stick to 2.9 pst. connected to the 4 pst. path that we've all built up. I also see that the reactions to the budget presented by the Solberg Government show that this is a budget that is financially responsible and is very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e221	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e224	Let me first thank the rapporteur and colleagues on the Financial Committee for their good cooperation during the hectic days. The attitude is neat, it brings together a majority of the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left, and it contains a total of minority proposals from the former government parties, based on the Stoltenberg government's draft budget with some additions. I want to start with the big picture: what does this budget characterize? I think that if a person had come from outside, he would have noticed that 99 pst. the majority vote corresponds to the draft budget of the red-green parties submitted in October. It may be an expression that the budget of the Stoltenberg government was very good, and that there is a broad consensus on budgetary policy in the Grand Duchy. I think the first is right; the red-green budget was good. The second is more unclear whether there is actually such a broad consensus on budgetary policy. We have no reason to believe it if we bring up the word change from the election campaign, which we still remember. We remember the promises of the Right and the Advance Party that they gave to the voters, the massive removal of toll stations, the massive tax cuts, the reduction in red tape, alternative national transport plans tens of billions above the agreed, deep cuts in aid and the alternative use of oil money. And we remember the leader of the Progress Party – today’s Minister of Finance – who wanted market solutions at all levels and who said that the Norwegian model was in the way of Norwegian reasoning. It's against these promises we have to measure the first draft budget and the final settlement, and then the distance is great. The finance minister says that she has had a short time to develop her alternative, and that it is unreasonable to expect the government to fulfill all its promises at the first crossroads. I'll give her right. Yes, there is a short time between the government's accession and the presentation of the new budget, but the Right Party and the Advance Party did not come to the government offices unprepared. For eight years they have strung out their course, promoted their proposals in Stortinget, given their commandments, driven their election campaign and promised to the voters. Now they rule Norway. In the light of the promises, this is a budget characterised by extensive lifting breaks. The working party does not regret the content of these withdrawals – just to make it clear. We are also pleased that every four crowns that came together with the Christian People's Party and the Left were going to reverse the cut in the budget of the Stoltenberg government. But the extensive promises cast a shadow over what the voters were faced with. They weaken confidence in the political messages before the elections. It has to be said, and it is today, during the debate on the budget, that it is in its place to say so. So to today's text – the budget that brings together the majority of the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left: Despite the breaches of the promises, I will give the Minister of Finance justice; the budget points out a direction and a partly new course for Norway, and I think it can be summed up with a policy of increasing differences. The main effort in the budget is tax cuts. Measured in krona, the tax cuts that this budget's sovereigns are winning and absolute main bet. The Labour Party is not against lowering taxes and charges. We've had it as important elements of economic policy for eight years, but we've done it with a different motivation than today's majority. We've lowered the taxes for people with normal incomes and made sure that they pay a lot – who paid little or nothing – more, and we've eased the corporate tax burden. We have made the tax system more effective and fairer. The result speaks for itself: we have come through the financial crisis with record levels of work, record low unemployment, sound government finances and enhanced well-being. We lowered the tax rate to the companies, we reduced the property tax and the inheritance tax for the large majority, but at the same time we maintained the income of the community. Today's majority have a different profile. The tax havens are the most widely distributed to those who have the most in the past, and the Ministry of Finance's own tables show that the direction is set for increasing differences: some hundreds of copies a year for those with ordinary income, 40,000 dollars a year for those who make over two million dollars. Even more than the hundreds patches and the thousands patches are the direction. As the Minister of Finance says, this is just the beginning. The government believes that tax cuts should improve productivity, strengthen competitiveness and limit the two-way distribution of the Norwegian economy. But that story doesn't last. There is no evidence that these cuts have such an overall effect. On the contrary, this budget raises a number of alarming questions for our competitive business, which have the greatest challenges today. The government's parties wanted to remove the CO2 compensation scheme for industry, which would have been an additional cost for those who labor the most, and it would have hit very vulnerable land-based industry. But the government had to turn around, after massive pressure. The inheritance tax is removed, but leaves a number of unanswered questions regarding the valuation and taxation of the inheritance. The growth package for an endangered whitefish diet is cut, as are the marine value creation programme and the fisherman deduction. The government announces that unemployment can rise to next year, but cuts in the number of regular action places and severely tightens the legislation on leave. This is a targeted cut, and it actually hits pretty hard for businesses that can now experience tougher times. None of this is a boost for our land-based business, by hand with tax cuts, the increased use of oil money goes. Parties that thought we were using seven out of ten crowns of oil faults, parties that are concerned about the two-way division of the economy, parties that are constantly critical of public money use: what do they do when they are going to finance tax cuts? They're going to the Pension Fund. A few weeks after the last draft budget, they're picking up 4 billion new oil crowns. They use oil crowns, crowns for crowns, and they record public consumption. It is strongly delivered in a button month. I notice that the Christian People's Party has not been interested in these tax cuts, I have noticed that the Left's alternative budget does not afford to spend more oil money, and it is clear from the position of the red-green parties here today that we will not increase the use of oil money either. But the Right Party and the Advance Party have got it through, and here it is, once again, not the number 4 billion that is the point. This is the reflection – that there was no willingness and ability to give priority to anything else, even though the government says it, that the temptation was too strong to take away future pensions to cover today’s tax cuts. There is no convincing argument that the economic situation makes such use of oil money necessary. Oil money use has never been changed by government change – until now. So the government takes a big responsibility. As the Ministry of Finance itself writes: «Cross price is unstable and the moods of the foreign exchange market can change rapidly. If one made a clear change of pace in the use of money over the state budget, there would be a danger that the crown will strengthen again." Here it's not the percent that's important; that's the impulse this gives to the economy in dollars. The OECD warns against increased use of oil money, with particular reference to cost levels and competitive business. The NHO reports in its economics survey today that we are vulnerable due to high costs. It's an argument to be careful about the use of oil money. Today, the majority will vote in favour of a budget of 1 pst. of GDP for aid. I want to give recognition to the Christian People's Party and the Left who brought the level back here, after the Right and the Advance Party would use the aid budget as a balancing post. Government parties say that quality is more important than a certain level of assistance. This is a built-in manufacturing. Of course, quality has to be central, but cutting the level will never be an argument for increased quality. The warning about the cut-off and halving of the number of Syrian quota refugees sent negative signals about Norway’s role and co-responsibility. I hope it doesn't happen again. The Labour Party assumes that the level of 1 pst, reached by the previous government, is now anchored, so that we do not get completely unnecessary rematches in future budget negotiations. Government parties repeat that they want to spend oil money on measures that reduce the two-way distribution of the economy and promote employment and productivity in the country. But do they deliver? The proposed tax cuts have no documented effect in that direction. Income tax cuts also tend to increase demand for goods and services in the protected sector. Increased oil money use increases oil dependence and increases the risk of a strengthened crown and higher interest rate. More expensive kindergartens, fewer kindergartens, increased cash support and partial continuation of class 2: This is, in the view of the Workers' Party, a contribution to an immature family policy, which also makes working less profitable. It weakens the working line, it weakens the efforts for integration, and it is not a good welfare policy. But it is also negative for business, because accessible, good and reasonable kindergartens allow parents to combine work and family and education and family in a way that serves all family members. This budget makes this combination more difficult. Compared to the Stoltenberg government's budget, the government has more money at its disposal, extra money taken from the Pension Fund, and money as a result of dividends and changes in estimates of the state's income. The Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV have chosen not to propose the disposal of more money from the Pension Fund, but we have illustrated in our alternative proposal how we would dispose of the other additional funds if we had them at our disposal. Several of the new efforts in this budget are good purposes that we can support. It reminds us once again that there is a broad consensus at the bottom on strengthening public welfare and upgrading the infrastructure of the country. That is why we refer to increases in appropriations for, among other things. Teacher lift, police, preparedness, coastguard, railway, county roads, rushes, psychiatry, rehabilitation — to name a few. We're proposing the same sum to the hospital sector, plus 300 million. NOK, but we're separating layers from the majority, which emphasizes that the extra money will go to purchase private services. Here we should think wider. We should also further develop the community hospital and not have a one-sided and ideological belief that unmet needs in the hospital sector will be provided by private individuals. The government thus signals that they put the interests of private clinics before the interests of patients. This budget, too, will leave Norway as a country with small economic differences compared to almost all other countries. However, the price is set at increasing differences — it even documents the Ministry of Finance — and differences can increase rapidly when they are released. It has shown the experience of Sweden. Our neighbouring country is now the country of the OECD with the fastest growing income differences. There's reason to point this out, because – once again – the government itself says that this is just the beginning. Such developments will be new to Norway, which has become more diverse in recent years and at the same time reduced income differences. Professionals from many teams stress that there is a great strength for both confidence and adaptability in a modern economy that income differences are small. Two days before the additional proposition came, I asked the Prime Minister if she intended to use the state budget to achieve the goal of small differences, which she has repeatedly said she supported. She replied affirmatively, but the rate set with this budget does not convince me. To this position, I would like to conclude by saying that, in the context of the examination of the technical fractions of their positions, proposals have been put in place to correct the amounts in some of the framework areas under proposal No. 1, however, within the same total frame. The changes are as follows: Frame area 6 is increased by 16 million. kr, and frame area 18 increased by 9 mill. kr. These increases are matched by a reduction of 25 million. kr in frame area 1. Frame area 7 is increased by 310 million. kr. This increase is matched by a reduction of 310 million. kr in frame area 19. I'll bring this up with our suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e291	The representative Jonas Gahr Støre has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e296	The Norwegian economy is in a relatively good condition – mainly due to high oil prices. But the new government is taking over the governance of a country with some basic challenges. Statistics produced by the Ministry of Finance show that productivity in Norway has fallen quite dramatically from 2005 to today — i.e. over eight years of red-green governance, with the Labour Party in the driver’s seat. It should be clear that Norway does not need more of the same — more of the old-fashioned policies of the Workers' Party, without a capacity for renewal. But it is possible that I have overlooked something in the budget government Stoltenberg presented, as the representative Gahr Støre describes as well. Is there something I have overlooked, something new in the Labour Party's budgetary policy, which allows us to overcome the negative development in productivity since 2005?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e305	I would ask the representative to prove that productivity in Norway has fallen since 2005. It'll be an eye-catching news. Productivity has grown every year since 2005. That's the way it is in a modern economy. Growth has slowed somewhat in some of these years, but it is now rising sharply again. Norway is among those countries with high productivity growth, and we have contributed to it through an economy where everyone is working — largely. We've done better than anyone else. It's the best expression that we use society's resources well, and it's also reflected in our budget. It will always be a challenge for a country with a high cost level that there has to be a link between cost level and productivity. We have to work on that on an ongoing basis. There was a wide range of measures to this effect in the budget of the Stoltenberg Government and in measures before the summer and on an ongoing basis to make the tax system fairer, less burdensome for business, a sample to assess the taxation of business and the broad measures. So it's in the budget. I think it's wise of the Right to stop talking about productivity falling, because it's completely wrong. It's rising.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e315	It is true that productivity is related to the level of costs and how we address ourselves, but that means that we have an additional challenge in this country with a high cost level of maintaining productivity and competitiveness for Norwegian industry. The source requested by the representative Gahr Støre is found in the Ministry of Finance and manufacturing, among others. in the case of this national budget. But again, I ask the representative Gahr Støre whether there is anything new, a renewal, in the budget policy of the Workers' Party, which allows Norwegian industry to expect to increase its productivity, relatively up to the cost level in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e324	Once again, I believe that the representative must stop saying that productivity is falling, because it is actually rising. One of the reasons it rises is that we have the people in work, we have a highly educated population, we have measures that allow people to combine having a family with work – better than in many other countries. Then we have to work on it over a wide surface. Among other things, we need to ensure that the social partners have tripartite cooperation with the authorities that enable them to take their action in making pay, ensuring that the level of costs is consistent with what our business can deliver. We've been through good years and good times. I trust that the social partners can, and the budget we provided was an invitation to their participation in it. However, cutting down on permitting rules and measures to be taken by businesses in the face of problems is not a good contribution. One of the reasons why productivity falls is that companies don't quit people in difficult times, but wait for better times. At that time, some of the measures promoted by this government are bad news for businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e331	I record that the representative Jonas Gahr Støre almost calls himself the spokesman for the bourgeois voters and claims that they should be dissatisfied. They should not. They should be very pleased with this budget, which clearly points out a new direction. On the other hand, the representative Jonas Gahr Støre is more likely to talk about the fight against tax havens. There has been a recurrence in the red-green government, and one today has a higher tax and tax burden than eight years ago. But in the news of the NRC today, he early opened up to some tax havens, but not those that go for private consumption, because it's terrible. But one could open up to tax havens that are targeted at businesses and industries that are active in their everyday lives. I would like the representative Jonas Gahr Støre to elaborate on what he thinks about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e340	I guess I also said in that entry that I wanted a knowledge-based policy. That's why we've set up a sample, led by the director of the Central Statistical Agency, to give an overall assessment of it. We proposed in the spring part reductions in company taxation. The representative Hagesetter tells a story about the last eight years that doesn't match reality. We have made the tax system more effective and fairer. It's not increased taxes, but it's dense holes. People who didn't pay taxes pay taxes. The large majority pay less in inheritance taxes and less in property taxes. We do not in any way escape to look at the tax system to stimulate and help businesses. But I basically agree with what the representative Syversen said, that these broad, general tax cuts, like a magic magic wand, in order to improve both competitiveness and productivity, I don't think we have the knowledge to say that will work. But having a wise and focused policy, based on the best knowledge our professionals can provide, politically also, based on an effective tax system, things the Workers' Party will be completely open to assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e349	One does not exclude the fact that the overall tax burden is higher today than it was eight years ago. The representative Jonas Gahr Støre can only try to stay away from it, but that's a fact. I didn't think I got an answer to the question I asked: What about my representative Jonas Gahr Støre when he says that a taxet should be opened up to businesses and industries that are active in their everyday lives? It is also a fact that among 30 OECD countries, only one country, Denmark, has a higher tax burden than Norway. It is clear that a high tax burden is cost-effective and also has something to say for competitive purposes. That's what I think I should be elementary. I would like to ask the representative Gahr Støre whether he agrees that high taxes and taxes are a disadvantage in terms of competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e360	That's a very general question. We have a high tax level compared to other countries, but we have everyone who wants it in work, and we have low unemployment. So it's not like those who have the lowest tax have the best economy and well-being. I think we've documented that through a historical lesson. It's just going back and looking at. But when I talk about targeted measures, we've done things on white fish, woodworking industry and CO2 compensation measures. We use instruments targeted at business. But today we are dealing with an additional proposal and a budget that does not draw a crisis picture of the Norwegian economy, in addition to the proposals they themselves have made. We're for something and for something. We have to do this knowledge-based and not on a morning broadcast and say that now there are reliefs and measures in them and those areas. Here, I think we need to evaluate this whole thing thoroughly. The NHO is talking about reduced growth from 2.5 pst. to 2 pst. It's a decline, but it's not very dramatic. The Central Statistical Bureau will soon come up with its cyclical survey survey, and then we will have a basis for that discussion, and we will also listen to the Ministry of Finance's assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e372	The problem with productivity in the Norwegian economy is that it no longer matches the increase in costs in the Norwegian economy and in the Norwegian companies, so there we get a challenge. Although productivity has not fallen, it no longer matches cost developments, and it is a problem for all of us. My question to Gahr Støre concerns the well-being of the representative – differences in Norwegian society. One of the proposals of the government of Gahr Støre was a member of, was to cut the appropriations for the heavily nurturing under 67 years of age. My question is, what was the reason for such a dramatic cut for such a vulnerable group?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e379	I will reject that it was a dramatic cut. There is a coverage for such particularly auxiliary groups of 80 pst. It was reduced to a little less than 80 pst. But it has to be said that it was combined with a very good development in the municipality's economy and the municipality's ability to prioritise. As far as I know, this was a proposal that the government parties did not go against in their first play, but something that came in after the Christian People's Party put emphasis on it. I respect that, but I believe that this was a situation that the municipalities, with the economy we provided, could carry finely, and then we take note that the old system has been brought back as it was before.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e384	The representative Gahr Støre has argued that the new government is coming to a table and that everything in the Norwegian economy is going on. It's a truth with many modifications. The truth is that the new government inherited eight years of neglect from the red-green. In spite of a record economic space, a record public budget and an oil money use nobody had seen themselves ten years ago, today we have a huge maintenance run in almost all sectors: road, rail, public sector ICT, school and church building – to name a few. Is this representative Gahr Støre's definition of a covered table?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e391	I have never said that everything is going on. It doesn't always make the trains sad either. But that's why we're in politics, because we want to improve society and take it further. I agree with Mr Breivik that maintenance is a major challenge in our society. It is more attractive to open something new than to maintain something old. I think that's related to pretty deep things in our society in terms of culture and the preservation of the values we have. So that's something we all have to put more emphasis on. We have a government budget that has grown by about 20 pst. since 2005. The cost of research has increased by about 30 pst. and the costs of transport of about 60 pst. So there are opportunities and rooms, and there are also appropriations for maintenance, but I give the representative the right thing that this is a very important question that we need to put more emphasis on when we plan infrastructure and maintain infrastructure in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e398	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e402	Let me first give tribute to the chairman of the committee who has made a formidable effort in a short time to get this through in the committee, while at the same time he has been engaged in some hard negotiations with the Right and the Advance Party. The chairperson of the Committee also spoke about the challenges now facing the new NHO Economic Survey. I would like to comment on it, because the representative Gahr Støre was also concerned about this – this by responding to the acute challenges. The challenges are not acute. They have come over time, and these kinds of challenges are well solved by general, good tools in the long term. Initially, I also want to tell the representative Gahr Støre, who says that this is a lifting break over a low shoe, and that the voters were offered something else in view, that not everything that was promised in the election campaign was delivered. But the voters were also offered something else in view. They were given the prospect that the Norwegian economy would be completely irresponsiblely managed, that the local economy would enter a ragnarok, and that Norwegian agriculture would be destroyed. Neither have these things turned on, and there should the red-greens go in themselves and see what they meant in the campaign, and what the result has been. The result has been good. The main objective of our budget is to build up under the foundation of the welfare society. The very centre is an ever-improved competitiveness and secure jobs. It is what creates growth in the economy, and it is what creates greater well-being, not least from a generation perspective. We need to use the space for action to strengthen business and jobs, and the increase in value creation is a crucial element for the long-term income of the country. Very much is good in Norway – in the welfare community, in business – and we have been fortunately equipped by nature, but it should not mislead us into painting a picture of Norwegian value creation and business as if it were not going to have challenges. Competitiveness has been weakened by our very high cost level compared to the trading partners. It creates problems for the export industry, which is now favoured by a better exchange rate, but it also creates problems for the domestic cost level and, of course, for the domestic market. Growth in productivity has weakened, and the Norwegian two-track economy, where continental industries are particularly struggling, is a major problem. I think that is what is reflected in the NHO economics barometer today, where it is almost signalled a sudden stop in some people. Now, I think this type of study is very influenced by the short-term situation ahead of us, but there is no doubt that it is necessary to prioritise investment in infrastructure, in transport and in knowledge, so that we can constantly improve productivity growth, and not least so that we can raise private sector investment and create the jobs to which we are going. The budget that we are going to adopt later today dares to prioritise precisely these elements to ensure the welfare society. The additional proposal from the government, together with the agreement with the cooperation parties at Stortinget, gives clear signals on budgetary priorities that will contribute to increased value creation. It must pay off to work. Norwegian capital must pay off to invest in Norwegian jobs. This is what is referred to in previous articles here as tax reliefs to the rich. If we don't have Norwegian capital that invests in Norwegian jobs, we also get no value creation and no good basis for the welfare society. The right went to the choice of changes, and for this they got confidence from the voters. Therefore, there can be no surprise that there will be changes in the budget to alert a new direction: a new direction of value creation and a strengthened basis for the welfare society. We promised to strengthen the workplaces. We have shown this through the tax policy that takes into account both the taxation of persons, the taxation of wealth and the inheritance tax. There is no doubt that the inheritance tax – which it has been sent out after it is to be removed – also means a lot to Norwegian business. We promised to invest in the school and have shown it through clear priorities in the budget, through further education of an increased number of teachers and an increased number of school leaders. We promised to bet on quality and freedom of choice in healthcare. We will introduce free treatment choices and use of free private capacity to reduce health cows. That is why we are giving priority both to well-being and to what is to create well-being. In addition, there are clear signals from several of the new state councils and from the government as a whole to improve the efficiency of the public sector. As politicians, we must not become the system defenders of bureaucracy. We must contribute to our own implementation, and we must contribute to the implementation of the system. I think that just these signals are changes that are well received by those who have chosen us. The two-way distribution of the Norwegian economy has grown over time over recent years. It's an impossible discussion to talk about two-way economics in terms of the use of oil money in this additional proposition. This has grown over many years. There has been good and high growth in the petroleum industry. It's given us a lot of profitability. It's infected over, and it makes business and well-being struggling with failure in many of the mainland industries. It is therefore important to focus the use of oil revenue from the State budget on measures to improve productivity and increase growth capacity outside the petroleum industry. A small illustration of how important it is is that the compensation of employees in Norwegian industry is now 70 pst. above the level of an average of the trading partners, 30 pst. higher than the borders of Sweden and 50 pst. higher than in Germany. The central bank manager said in his last year that the growth in productivity in Norway has been very weak since 2005. This is important. This is why the use of oil money is very central, because we are going to compete with competitors in Europe who are now tightening up, streamlining and lowering costs, wages, pensions and public expenditure. In the meantime, we're developing in the other direction, and when they get to the fences, we're going to have very difficult competitive conditions. That's why it's important how we lock the oil money into the Norwegian economy, and therefore the discussion of the four billion dollars is not the most important. The important discussion is how we spend this money – on infrastructure and not least on knowledge, research and growth-promoting tax relief. When the representative Jonas Gahr Støre says that there is no professional evidence that you can use 4 billion. extra oil crowns, I say, all over the last eight years we have been presented with a budget by then Minister of Finance Sigbjørn Johnsen, who has pointed to different prospects in the economy, and after that determined the use of oil money. You don't have to ask a number of professional economists with divergent attitudes. It's the government that's responsible for defining how much oil money you can spend, and not least the way you're going to spend it. If you go back to 2005, you will see that the money has been spent wisely all the way, but it has been more for public consumption than for investment – it shows the statistics. It does not increase the investment and development capacity of Norwegian businesses, and it is absolutely central. It is absolutely essential for this government that we have to be competitive, that we get income into the welfare society, which needs it to maintain well-being in the future. Then we have to get more of our own labour force in activity. Although we have a high level of employment, there is no doubt that we have a low level of employment. It has not changed in particular, and especially for young adults, we have a low level of employment. The additional proposition and the settlement have been achieved in a few weeks of harvest, as it has been said – not to boredom, but as a good reminder – quite many times. But it shows that the new government has considerable power of action, it needs a short time to do something. For a longer time, expectations should be higher.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e430	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e433	First of all, it is tempting to ask the representative Fleet to document the claims of Ragnarok and collapse. No one has claimed that the government was going to be able to destroy Norwegian agriculture in seven weeks – I don't think this government has such a strong executive power. But aside from that. In the additional proposal, the government proposed to shave the CO2 compensation scheme for industry. In this way, the art piece was able to combine miserable industrial policies with wretched climate policies. I am pleased that the government gave up, but there has nevertheless been damage. The representative Fleet knows just as well as I do that Norwegian power-intensive industry operates on the margin. It is no wonder that there will be strong reactions when the government signals that it is willing to rock by a scheme that has hardly come into force. Uncertainty has been spread about important framework conditions, and I ask the representative Fleet if he believes that this has been well managed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e443	Yes, I think it has been excellently handled. This came into place in the agreement, and the recordings I got about this were not that this was a be or not for the Norwegian industry. A lot of people also saw the good reasons for doing just this. Now it's history – we've got this in place, and I think the industry is very satisfied. I also want to make a comment on what the representative Marthinsen is talking about, on Ragnarok. Well, I've been sitting in this room so many times and heard so many articles about how it would be with Norwegian economy, local economy and the whole thing about someone other than the red-green got the opportunity to rule this country. Now we've seen the result, and it's very little to hang in, I understand, for the red-green, other than single detail – which is important enough for those concerned – in this budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e450	I can only basically remember hearing the word ‘ragnarok’ used in Norwegian political debate and in political predictions once, and it was Børge Brende, former Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade, who predicted Ragnarok in Norwegian business if the red-greens won in 2005 – that is what they said. However, I do not want to let go of this matter about the CO2 compensation scheme completely. In the context of the revised budget in 2012, the Right raised a number of questions to the Stoltenberg Government. The right was impatient to get the system in place and would have assurances that the government would come quickly to Stortinget with one case, and the right was concerned about how the scheme was to be set up, priced enough. The right asked, among other things:Can the government promise that Norway will take full advantage of the possibilities for CO2 compensation adopted by the EU in its guidelines? Today, I would like to ask the honourable Member the same question: Can he promise that in the coming years Norway will take full advantage of the possibilities for CO2 compensation contained in the EU guidelines?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e466	Yes, I have no problem promising that. I guess we're going to follow that, the more we're more concerned with good industry framework conditions than anyone else. The fact that this proposal came up was due to a special situation, among other things. the prices of the allowances, and it was absolutely possible to argue that our solution was also a good solution in the long term, given that prices would increase. Now I would like to say again that I perceive this as history. I am also pleased that the representative Marthinsen and I, who are going to sit together for quite a long time in the Committee on Finance, agree that the conditions for Norwegian industry are important. However, Norwegian industry is not the only source of CO2 compensation. Marthinsen would think a little bit about what, for example. Tax relief, infrastructure and other measures contribute in total to the Norwegian industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e476	I will follow up on the government's wing during a few weeks of fall in the matter of the CO2 compensation scheme. It has created uncertainty about the government's willingness to exploit the space for action in favour of the Norwegian powerful industry. I also think the response from the representative here helps to create some uncertainty. However, I registered that when the agreement came and the case was reversed, among other things, it was. Right Arve Kambe and Siri Meling out and cheered for this. I also see now that the fleet representative is pleased that nothing happened, and on the basis of this, I would challenge the following: was this a proposal that the Right really was against, and that the Progress Party and the Finance Minister pushed into the budget against the Right's will?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e484	I think it is good that representatives Meling and Kambe cheer – it is easy to put rogalending in a good mood. [[Laughter]] What is promoted by the government is also the Right's proposal and the Right's opinion. When we make a settlement, we include it with the partners and with the government partners. The representative believes that I am spreading uncertainty about the position of the Right and the government on the Norwegian industry's framework conditions. I'm not doing that. I was quite clear in my reply to the representative Marthinsen about the CO2 compensation. Those who contribute to creating uncertainty are those who repeat these issues in order to create uncertainty about one of the government parties. For the sake of order, we in the government parties stand together on what we present in this room – if you hadn't probably heard it in advance – and we stand united on what we have agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e496	A year ago, the representative fleet co-sponsored an excellent proposal for a new grant for small and medium-sized enterprises. There's no secret that this is a group of companies left with a lot of commitment, and we're proposing a lot of targeted measures today. One of the proposals previously agreed with the Right is a review and improvement of the framework conditions for self-employed persons, especially when it concerns social rights related to pensions, sickness and care for own children. This is apparently no longer an equally important area of government, all the time when a mention of social rights for self-employed persons is excluded from the government statement, nor is it now a priority – or is there any reason to hope that this is an accident at work and a passing phenomenon?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e503	It takes a lot to admit that something is an accident at work. Neither is this a work accident. We have promoted a lot of good suggestions in this room. We have a lot of good proposals in our programme, which is not part of either the cooperation agreement or the Sundvolden declaration. But as someone has pointed out, it goes quite quickly in fulfilling a good part of what is stated in the Sundvolden Declaration. Gradually we will probably go empty of good ideas factory at Sundvollen. Then we will have to tackle all the good policies that the parties have in their respective programmes, and not least the proposals that have been promoted in the past in the United Kingdom. I am still in favour of the good proposal that I was part of at the time – it has not been forgotten the policy of the Right. But the more the Left reminds us of this through conciliation in the Storting – and perhaps through even more active participation in governing the country, I don't know – the easier it is to get that kind of proposal through.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e512	The fact that cuts in property taxes and the removal of inheritance taxes have any growth-promoting effect other than on the bank accounts of those who receive the tax cuts does not enable the government – on direct questions – to document. What we know, on the other hand, is that these cuts lead to other things. They're very oddly distributed. 4 pst. the population receives 40 pst. by the tax cuts that the government, the Christian People's Party and the Left have made. Many families with children will suffer as a result of many other cuts proposed by this government. This means that differences in Norway will increase in 2014 — for the first time in eight years. Not everyone thinks this is a problem. Kristin Clement recently stated that Norway has a part to play in terms of economic differences. My question is whether the representative Fleet agrees with Kristin Klemet.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e522	Sometimes I am. When it comes to this particular case, about differences, I think that the opposition — especially SV — should be vigilant in order to measure the differences in Norway from tax statistics. It can quickly give you a rather fuzzy picture. The main way that differences occur is if people have a job or one. We have a budget that facilitates job creation by investing. That is precisely when the wealth tax is a very good instrument. Those who have assets like to invest in businesses. They create jobs, which in turn generate growth in the economy, income for society and increased well-being in society. That reasoning – that ‘left’ – is very simple for me. It's just going into the individual workplaces. Then I think you can see it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e529	The representative Fleet talks about growth-promoting tax havens. But for the most part, this tax haven goes especially to people who have the most from before, to those with the million income. If you make $400,000, you might get about $400 in taxes. Waiter and 2 million. kr, on the other hand, gets one hundred times more – I repeat, one hundred times more – i.e. NOK 40,000 in tax cuts. Then I have to ask the Fleet: how does he see that such a sharp increase in differences between people can contribute to growth in business? To me it is quite incomprehensible. In addition, I would like to hear how you intend to finance future large tax credits when the big wave comes – because this is just a taste.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e536	The objective of tax relief is not to create differences. The objective of e.g. As I said in my previous reply, relief in the taxation of wealth is the creation of jobs, ensuring that it is invested in jobs in Norway with Norwegian capital. Indeed, Norwegian capital is taxed in a completely different way from foreign capital when it establishes itself. I also have to repeat to Hagebaken that differences are not created by tax statistics. Differences are created by whether people have a job or one, that we have low unemployment, that new jobs are created – not least for those with little competence. Then we need capital. If no one wants to invest, we don't have any place where we can use our labour reserve.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e543	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e546	The financial position of the State Budget for 2014 means that the Right-front party government – in partnership with its friends in the Christian People's Party and the Left – is now pointing out a new course for Norway. This is a very good budget, which is adapted to the reality we have. Regardless of what the representative Gahr Støre and the other red-green had to mean, the feedback from our voters is that they are very pleased with the budget and the course that we have now pointed out. Of course, it takes time, both for good and for bad, to reverse developments in Norway and correct everything that we think should change. But the parties behind this budget show action and clearly point out a new direction. Norway is a good country to live in for most people. Thanks to our enormous oil wealth, we have an economy and a foundation that most countries can only dream of. In Norway, however, we face many important challenges in the future. One of them – perhaps the most important – is to provide a good basis for growth, value creation and employment. We have to create to be able to distribute. That is exactly what this budget is about. Despite the fact that we have had a record low interest rate, a high level of private consumption, partly financed by loans, and, not least, a record high oil price, we have seen recent trends in rising unemployment. It's a development that we have to deal with and that we have to stop. This budget is well-suited to do so. Recent figures today show that more people have become more uncertain when it comes to the future economic situation. That means that the economic situation is not as pink as the red-green claims that he is, that we almost come to a covered table. Competitiveness has been weakened over a long period of time, and that is what this budget addresses. In addition to that, we live in a very uncertain value. In the U.S., a person has survived for many years and is still in debt. In Asia, Japan has a huge government debt and a problem of economic growth, and in China, all figures show that growth is now weaker than too few years ago. Large parts of Europe are struggling with significant debt challenges and mass unemployment, especially among young people. It is in this situation that the new government and the growing majority will set the course ahead. Of course, we must also be on the verge of a new downfall in the world economy. That means that we are content to reverse the developments we have seen over many years, with a weak competitiveness. We must strengthen competitiveness, we must continue to renew and improve, and the framework conditions must be improved. Debureaucratisation and simplification, tax and infrastructure costs and benefits are key. With this budget, the first step is taken to correct the weakening of competitiveness that we have seen in recent years. Investments in the road and the track are record high next year. In relation to the red-green government's plan for next year, the cooperation party has a plus 1 100 million. NOK more on the road and 600 million. kr more for the railway. It means more roads, better roads, more tunnel maintenance and a historical investment on the road, which in turn means lower transport costs both for businesses and for individuals. Among OECD countries, only Denmark has a higher level of taxation than Norway. This means high prices for most Norwegian-produced goods and services, and tax and tax pressures are now higher than they were eight years ago. In this budget, these developments are reversed and taxes and taxes are reduced by nearly 7 300 million. kr. One of the grips is that taxes on general income are reduced from 28 pst. until 27 pst. It's important to get an equal rate in relation to corporate tax. If we hadn't, we could have unproductive adaptations that wouldn't benefit Norwegian value creation and Norwegian welfare. In addition, tax incentives — both with this approach and in other areas — are important to stimulate, among other things. part-time to work more and also to increase the purchasing power and well-being of the individual. There are also dynamic effects in these lights which cause value creation to increase, which in turn means 10-30 pst. The tax bill will return to the state because more people want to work. We've also taken action when it comes to the strange wealth tax. Here the rate is reduced from 1.1 pst. For 1 pst. There are several people who have taken the word and said that they don't understand why this is corporate tax, so why this can benefit value creation, but that's exactly what it does. It's not that when you get a property tax, you have a private account that you can take out and pay it with. In most cases, one, if a company owns it and is taxed on it, has to deduct money from the enterprise to finance the property tax. When a profit is deducted from the enterprise, it weakens the enterprise, and the workplaces become more insecure than they would if one hadn't taken out the money. In addition, there is discrimination in respect of property taxes. Norwegian owners are subject to property taxes, while Norwegian owners of Norwegian companies are exempt from property taxes. This means that a company that has Norwegian owners has to withdraw money to pay the property tax, while a Norwegian company that has foreign owners does not have to do the same. The removal of inheritance fees is a similar matter. If a company inherits, it is not that a company usually has the money to pay the inheritance fee. Then, in very many cases, you have to deduct money from the company to pay the inheritance fee. When a profit is drawn from an enterprise, the company is weakened, the competitiveness of the enterprise is weakened, and the jobs are less secure. This is therefore a budget which, with the measures taken here, will strengthen competitiveness. In addition, there are many other initiatives – the tax FUNN is strengthened – and there are important things to bet, to build on innovation and development. Therefore, tax breaks are important because it will ensure Norwegian jobs, and it will also give individuals greater freedom and well-being. The State budget provides clear leadership when it comes to red tape and simplification. For the last ten years, a new directorate bureaucrat has been appointed every single working day. This is a development that isnot very appropriate if it continues, and therefore it is important to put red tape and simplification on the agenda. The big money will now be spent on growth-promoting measures and good services for citizens, not on bureaucracy and detail management. Health cows have also increased in recent years. Here, take a grip that will mean that one gets more treatments, and one gets to reverse that development as well. Crime has increased dramatically in many places, so I am pleased that the justice sector is prioritised as strongly as it is in this setting. The budget means more money for the fight against crime. So this is a budget with a new direction, which has clear priorities and which is well suited to the challenges we face. The oil money usage is 2.9 pst. and therefore lies significantly under the so-called 4 pst. course. Nevertheless, there is a slight increase in the use of oil money compared to the budget of the previous government, but because this budget has large tax and tax losses and higher investment – i.e. we use money in another way – oil money is both defensive and correct. So this is a budget that strengthens competitiveness and guarantees well-being in the short and long term. That's why this is a good day, both for the parties behind this – the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left – and last, but not least, for Norwegian competitiveness and well-being, for Norway and the Norwegian people.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e588	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e591	The government claims that they are concerned with reducing the two-way division of the Norwegian economy. Seafood is today our second largest export industry and, according to the report ‘Verdiskaping based on productive seas in 2050’, has the potential to double the value added. According to the report, priority is given to knowledge-based coastal and marine management in order to realise this potential for value creation and to contribute to reducing the division of the Norwegian economy. What does the government do? Yeah, they're just cutting off the coast and the oceans. They put down the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coastal Department, they cut into the operational expenditure of the Directorate of Fisheries, i.e. those who are in charge of this coastal and marine management. I can also mention the cuts in the package of measures for the fishing industry or the marine value creation programme. Therefore, it must be timely to challenge the representative Hagesetseter whether he agrees with me that the government with this shows that everything talked about reducing the division of the Norwegian economy is empty talk, and that the government is actually strengthening the two-way division of the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e598	No, the government is reducing the doubling of the Norwegian economy with the priorities we've taken. But as I was in my post, red tape and simplification are also important, because bureaucracy has grown very strongly in recent years. That development is not viable. When it comes to seafood, I can promise the representative that this is something that the government and the government party are concerned about. So there's a potential that's not being exploited here, and it's important that you do this in the right way and in the right way. There are many good jobs here, and there are many good district jobs. In addition to this, the government has a general tool that will also help this industry and all other industries in terms of tax relief and significant increases in investment in infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e607	In 2011, the Danish representative Kenneth Svendsen stated that it was a betrayal against the people of Northern Ireland that the red-green government did not open up to the impact assessment of the areas outside the Lofoten, the Vestralen and Senja. In the election campaign in the fall, impact assessment of these areas was one of the most violent election vows of the Progress Party and the Right. A few days after the election, we all know that the government dropped this election promise. Does the representative, Mr Hagesett, agree with Mr Svendsen's representative that there must still be a betrayal of the people of Northern Ireland – and not least that this must be a serious breach of promises?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e619	I do not want to go into the wording of the representative Svendsen, and I do not want to go into the context or the situation in which he may have expressed himself. But it is clear that the Progress Party's vision in this matter is well known. Now we got 16.3 pst. So you're not going to get a pass on everything we want. In the negotiations with these four parties, and in the government, one has to adjust and adapt. I believe that the basis of the four-party declaration of cooperation and also the government statement is a great starting point that will ensure employment, value creation and growth throughout the country, including in this area. One accepts that not all of these parties have been passed on to all of their primary policies, but so it is in a democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e627	I noticed that the representative stressed the increase in the draft budget of the Right-wing Party Government and that this would lower the cost to industry. But he did not mention what had really been montating in bringing down the costs of business, and not least the fulfilment of the electoral commitments that the Progress Party has given for all years, to remove the toll collection. After this option, the progress bar has been muted more. The lot in government is something other than outside government. Now the Progress Party will both continue today's toll projects and start up new ones, contrary to what the party has promised. We've noticed the news that some small toll projects are going to be closed, but that's not what the party has promised every year. Expectations are sky-high to state full funding. I want to ask the representative what he wants to say to those who have believed in these promises, and whether he can say that this is a breach of promise.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e634	I record that the representative Johansen is also concerned about becoming a kind of spokesman for the Progress Party's voters. That's very interesting. I don't think it's very credible, as it comes from a party that is responsible for more toll collection than what you've got in this government platform. Here we've just gotten the toll part going down. Then I register that one says that the Progress Party in the government is something other than the Progress Party in the opposition. It may not be new that a party that is part of a government acts a little differently in position than one did in the opposition. We got 16.3 pst. So we're not going to get through everything, but we're going to get through too much. There will be less tolls with the Advance Party in government than if the red-green had continued in government, I'm overestimated.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e641	Investments for good transport solutions support both business and housing throughout the country. The election vows from the Progress Party were very large, with more highway – more road development – it was not petty that came from promises. The direction of negotiations with the Christian People's Party and the Left is less and more towards the railway. When one compares it with statements by Minister of Climate and Environment Tine Sundtoft in Stavanger Aftenblad on 19 November this year that the government is now turning investments from road to rail and collective, I find it timely to ask the fiscal spokesman of the Progress Party whether he agrees with the statements of the Minister for Climate and Environment. Can we now expect that the initial investment into highways will fall?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e648	It's true that in the agreement, the huge bet that was within the extra proposition was a little bit less, and then there's even more splintering to the path. But it's not going to be any less. Even after the negotiations, it's 1.1 billion. kr more than what the red-green parties entered in their national budget. So here's a reason to enjoy both those who are busy with a solid roadblock and those who are busy with the railways. So here we really get a lot of investment in infrastructure next year, and more will come in the years after. This is going to be very good. Here the transport costs have to be reduced, and then we have to make sure that the part of the toll costs is reduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e653	The party of progress has long argued that most of it can be resolved in the context of budgetary management. There has been a primary lack of political will, not economics. Now it's more complex and difficult. Among other things, the introduction of tax deductions for investment in own dwellings has been more complicated monthly, the same liability for neutral VAT to the State. These are good proposals that will provide the right incentive, but which now have to be elaborated and appreciated by the formerly less well-respected Ministry of Finance. At Stortinget's meeting last day in the spring, the last meeting before the big shot, the representative Hagesetter had a post where he had little good to say about the rule of action. Now it was the accountability itself that spoke – in isolation very well, and welcome to the club. But for the Left, it's a little weird, because we're constantly striving to do the same things when we're in position or when we're in opposition. So the question is short and good: how does the representative explain something about the changes he is now giving to know the comparison with the ones he had, the latest in the spring session?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e660	It was shown here that I have been critical of both the rule of action and the Ministry of Finance. It may well be there are other things that I express myself a little different if now than I did in opposition, that's enough. When it comes to the Ministry of Finance and the boasting of them now, it is very simple: there is now a new political lease, and it seems to me that I have done wonders. The Ministry of Finance now appears to be very solid, and I feel secure about the work being done there. So to the rule of action – we are so concerned about that. We've always said that it's not only important how much money we spend, but also how we spend the money is important. I feel there's a greater consensus about today compared to before.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e669	I shall be honest to say that I, who am an SV, have also learned that it is necessary to adapt to the parliamentary realities when you become part of a government. But there's a difference between that and changing a completely basic setting on very basic questions. The Progress Party is part of a government that, through the State Council, Vidar Helgesen, says: We want a climate agreement as ambitious as possible. In addition, the Left and Christian People’s Party – to their great credit – has fought through increased mineral oil levy in the budget agreement with the Progress Party. It must either mean that the Progress Party has suffered a crushing defeat in one of its most important things, namely, preaching climate cognition, or the Progress Party has realized that they were wrong. So my question to the representative Hagesetter is: Does the representative acknowledge that there are serious man-made climate change that we have to do something about?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e678	I don't think we should spend too much time on such trust assessments, and that one kind of solves it by recognizing this and so everything is good. What I think we should be concerned about is putting in place effective and good measures in relation to climate change emissions. The Government and Government Party base the climate agreement. A job is to get effective action. I feel that I'm more important than a strong sense of trust – and then one should not do anything afterwards just one has admitted that it's man-made, then one should just sit down and relax. In the case of mineral oil levies, the agreement increased. It wasn't exactly how the Progress Party wanted it to be, but it was an increase that we accepted in the agreement that was made, in the agreement in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e685	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e688	For the Center Party, it was a main goal when we went into the Red-Green government to smooth out geographical and social differences. A major asset for us in 2005 was to invest in strengthening the municipal economy, and we promised 5.7 billion. kr i raising in the municipal economic proposition that spring. We did that together with the Workers' Party and SV in the autumn. In our promise, the Progress Party promised $2.50. kr more in the municipal economic proposition than the government presented. Nothing has happened there. In the spring of 2005, we promised a powerful cultural effort. It was called air money by the then government. The red-green parties overfilled what we promised, together with the Spring 2005 Progress Party. In our party, the Progress Party promised an increase in the NTP of 45 billion. kr annually – it came a little over 1 billion. kr in the budget. In 2005, we promised a more active enterprise policy, that we would fill up the toolbox with new tools to take new action. We have. We have put in place measures adapted to the individual industries. Our main priority was to expand well-being across the country, expand infrastructure across the country and pursue an active industrial policy that can create jobs across the country. In Norway it has been well over the years. We have low unemployment. There are many new jobs created, and most of us have had real wage growth. My generation has experienced a continuous growth in the housing market. Most of us have had relatively little worries. But there have been some warning lights. In ours, the NHO turned on the warning lights with full power. In their membership survey, for the first time in four years, the majority of Norwegian enterprises are looking negatively at the outlook in 2014. The NHO says there's a sudden stop in the Norwegian economy. They look dark on the Norwegian economy in 2014. They have been no more pessimistic since the financial crisis. Missions are missing. What, then, is the answer in business policy? What action does the government take in its budget? Are there new, powerful measures? The answer to that is no. Although the representative Fleet called the budget prophetic in Political Quarter today, there are very few answers. I'll give you some examples. First, to the powerful industry. Before the elections, the red-green government had strong criticisms from representatives of the Right that we did too little to divide the Norwegian economy, because we did too little for the three-processing industry. The first thing that the Right does when they get power is to remove the system that the entire industry has been asking for, they're reducing the CO2 compensation scheme. So to two examples from the three-processing industry. This could give an impact for Norwegian Forest Forest of 25 million. kr annually, for Norwegian Forest Saugbruggss with 20 million. kr annually. That's the first grip Right chooses to take after its massive criticism of the previous government. Fortunately for the powerful industry, the centre parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left, came in and saved this industry now. But it has created uncertainty and uncertainty, and you see that you have a government that is not willing to bet. The next point is the food industry. It is the only industry that had a large investment growth last year, which had employment growth last year, and which had growth in turnover last year. What does the government do with it? Firstly, the fees are increased by means of the Food Authority. Secondly, research is being cut, which is being reversed by the Christian People's Party and the Left. But thirdly, after establishing stable framework conditions for customs protection in its budget, the Council of State, Vidar Helgesen, goes out and warns that it will be reversed as quickly as possible. It creates instability, it creates uncertainty, and it causes those who are actors in the Norwegian food industry to be careful about investing. That's the opposite of what we need now. Then to the fisheries. The Red-Green Government introduced a number of targeted measures to improve the processing of Norwegian fisheries resources, to facilitate more value creation. What does the government do? Well, it systematically cuts into the measures taken to create a more competitive, more viable fishing industry in the future. They give tax incentives. In the agricultural sector, there are tax incentives and cuts in research, which was the government's objective. In the field of forestry, the energy flexibility scheme has been cut to eliminate the worst effect, innovation funds have been cut to create new businesses, and uncertainties have been created about the framework conditions for wood processing by changing the CO2 compensation scheme several times over a few weeks. The right went to the choice of a policy for new ideas and better solutions. But what do you do for those people who have new ideas and better solutions, and who need some help from the public to get their business started and realize their idea? There you go. More than half a billion dollars are cut into the funds that go through Innovation Norway, which goes through county municipalities to help new entrepreneurs, new businesses to get started and old businesses to develop further. Then we have to ask ourselves a question: is this the right time to cut off the targeted tools for business when the industry turns on the warning lights with full power? Is that when you want to empty the toolbox, or is it when you want to fill in the toolbox? For the Central Party, the answer is quite clear: the time has come to fill up the toolbox, not empty it, not create instability, as the government has done. The government spends $4 billion. kr more of future generations' money by increasing the use of oil money. The main priority has been tax changes. At that time it would have been thought that targeted tax changes had been prioritised for business to create more competitiveness in Norwegian business. You haven't. What you have given priority to is tax relief for individuals. The tax reliefs were prioritised for the sole proprietor, who was estimated to be 0.8 billion. In a reply from the Minister of Finance to the Committee, the agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party has been null and void. It's not a tax package for business, it's a tax package for individuals. Is that what we need now? The answer is no. I also want to point out one more thing. When you remove the inheritance tax, which is seen in isolation by many as a positive act, and you have not gone into enough of how it turns out when you introduce new depreciation rules, and cannot give a proper response to the Stortinget, there is a way to deal with self-employed people who cannot be taken seriously. The removal of the inheritance tax is now being introduced, and the consequences are then to be determined. The store has not received a response. We don't know the consequences, and the government doesn't know the consequences of its own proposals either. The budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left also increases the costs of the construction industry – the industry that has expressed the greatest concern. We don't think it's right to increase costs there, as it is in the budget deal. We also believe it is wrong to notify measures in the construction industry that have now been taken in relation to energy savings measures in buildings. What if you don't implement it? This makes many uncertain when making the investments. So finally, the reason why we in the Central Party have chosen to spend the entire speaking time on industrial policy is that we now see a government that wants to withdraw from the industry, that will pursue a more business-neutral policy, and that will not pursue a policy that is adapted to the different industries, whether it is forestry, agriculture, fisheries or other types of industries in the power-intensive industry. We believe that some of the success in Norway has been that there has been a close interaction between the state, public and industry, where action packages have been contributed and other incentives have been provided when needed. Unfortunately, the constant tone in the budget that the government brings is that you cut into all these instruments and that at a time when you would have had to strengthen them.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e734	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e738	Yeah, so different you can look at the world. I would like to remind the representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum, that Arne Strand wrote in the newspaper in 2005 that now the red-green government came to the table, and we got three years of strong growth in the Norwegian economy afterwards. Now it looks like it's really just the dishes again, and we have to prepare for, as NHO warned, that there are some warning lights out there. The NHO did not announce that it was stopped because of the measures taken by the government. They announced stoppages because of the lack of focus on Norway’s competitiveness, the division of two and the general competitive situation that has been allowed to develop under the red-green. Battle force Vedum talks about using the toolbox. Was it the one used, when almost Norwegian woodworking industry was closed in eight years?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e745	The representative of Gundersen must soon get out of the campaign mode and assume that he is now responsible for the additional budget that has been submitted. And what were the measures in an area that Gundersen has expressed concern over time — for woodworking? The measures were to remove the new subsidy scheme that the entire industry was asking for throughout the spring and has been asking for over a long time. Only for Norwegian Forest Forests, they have estimated an impact of 25 million. kr. Is that how to eliminate competitiveness? We also strengthened the grants for three-based innovation programmes to produce new products, such as: the new Mjøsbrua. What is the new government doing, when it gains power? It removes these subsidies from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food — it reduces them. It has also addressed wood processing and reduced subsidies from the Ministry of Industry and Trade, so that all measures to stimulate more competitiveness have been reduced by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e750	Now I think the representative of Battle Violence Vedum is speaking against better knowledge. There is a very clear rotation in this budget, more commitment to local ownership, more commitment to knowledge and research and more commitment to transport. If there is one thing Norwegian timber processing and non-competitive industry have asked for, there is an increased investment in trade. Then it becomes a little special to mention Dairy Brow, because it's actually more than just Dairy Brow when it comes to transportation. So the direction of the changes that have been made is very good, and that is what Norwegian industry and Norwegian industry have been asking for all the time. But I did not get an answer. The representative Battle Force Vedum pointed himself to the NHO and this with a stop and alarm bells. It is not that policy changes in three months. We're now going into a period where there's a lot of trouble going on, but the grips the government's made are right.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e757	With regard to wood processing, I believe the two main measures at the bottom are the stability of fiscal policy and offensive transport policy – it is a long-term industry – and a stable industrial policy. I believe that that government has been exercising for the past few weeks is the opposite of stable industrial policy. Changing the main scheme in a very short time — by reducing and then increasing again — creates uncertainty and uncertainty. It does not appear to be controllability. In the case of taxes, the answer to Minister of Finance Siv Jensen was that the commercial tax practices before the agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left were about. 0.8 B.C.E. kr. That's the answer we got in Stortinget. But when we see the grips you took in comparison with the Christian People's Party and the Left, we see that you increase the tax burden on business. Tax measures were taken which were negative for the sole proprietor. So this isn't a tax package for business. It's a tax package for individuals, and that's not what we need. We should use the tax assets in a completely different way.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e764	The new government has started a great deal of work, and it is about to clear up after the previous government that has left itself major challenges. Among other things, we will find: There are enormous delays in maintenance, large residues in the justice sector, long-term health cows and growing bureaucracy – just to mention something. What are the main actions of the red-greens in their draft budget to address these challenges? I also heard the representative Schlagsvold Vedum talk warmly about tools, but I did not understand which tools they were willing to use.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e771	There's a bunch of tools we're willing to use, and it's in the state budget. In the fisheries sector, we have a whitefish programme in the marine sector value creation programme. We have it through wanting higher fishing deductions, we wanted security training for fishermen. We wanted many small measures that, in total, could contribute to competitiveness and help more people want to enter the Norwegian fishing industry. In the case of woodworking, I mentioned it instead. We wanted more money for the innovation program. We wanted the CO2 compensation scheme all the time. We do not create instability as the Right Party and the Advance Party have chosen to do. As far as the food industry is concerned, we have said that we want stability around customs, while the new government makes one proposal in the budget and then the Council of State, Vidar Helgesen, travels to Brussels and says something else. We believe that this is not the way to handle business. They need stability and clear framework conditions, and we need public incentives, such as: Innovation Norway, which can help new entrepreneurs. There's more money, the government has less. We think it's a wrong priority, and we're going to point that out.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e785	The importance of agriculture for the Centre Party is not particularly alarming. In today's financial situation, however, there is a slightly special outcome. In connection with the fact that the Government Party and the Christian People's Party and the Left have agreed to increase the mineral oil levy, the Center Party writes: ‘This will result in a significant increase in the levy rate for construction firms, agriculture and a number of other enterprises. This member considers this to be a poor industrial policy and a low level of sound environmental policy. The Central Party therefore believes that short-term policy in favour of, among other things. agriculture is far more important than the concern of all those who are struggling with poor air quality in the big cities due to fossil oil fires – short-term because, with the support of the Centre Party, fossil oil or kerosene is no longer allowed to be used for heating from 2020. The question is therefore whether the centre party is still behind this point in the climate agreement, or whether they think that there is a small, accurate environmental policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e795	We are, of course, behind that proposal in the climate agreement. The reason why we did not want to increase the diesel tax by one and fifty cents is that in the short term there will not be any climate impact, but only give more money to the state. If you were to tax the construction industry, forestry, agriculture and other industries in this way, we thought that you should have targeted tax measures that would facilitate on a similar basis, and we didn't have those tax measures now. That's why we thought it was right to continue, and we're surprised that the Progress Party and the Right believe it's right to increase that fee when we can't prove that it will have a short-term climate effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e800	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e803	As an opposition party, the Left presents an own alternative budget – a budget that differs from both the Labour Party-SV-Center Party government and the Right-front party government’s budget. In the key areas of the Left, such as the fight against poverty, incentives for an innovative business life, measures to counter bi-dividuals of the economy, environmental and climate policies, including a green tax shift, there are small differences between the other two budgetary options, but there is no doubt that the budget for the Solberg government is far better than the red-green ones at school, education and research. None of the budgetary options for the other meet the two major challenges we face, well enough, the environmental and climate problems and the increasing doubling of the Norwegian economy and business. Climate negotiations in Warsaw show how important it is for countries that are in charge of it to go ahead and take responsibility. Norway may make a difference to help resolve the climate crisis. In addition, by strengthening all research and technology developments under the direction of the research institute and industry, we can facilitate new growth and value creation. Ten years of high oil prices have led to a cost development in business that is out of line with the development of our trading partners. Over a few years, real wages have increased faster than productivity. Norwegian enterprises are in a vulnerable situation, not least if oil prices are lower. Along with today's fresh signals from among others The NHO is concerned about this. Norway's foremost competitive advantage is always to have world-class knowledge and technology. That the Solberg government prioritizes knowledge and research more strongly than the red-green ones did is very good. However, in the view of the Left, it is not enough. Despite record economic space, record public budgets and oil money spending, no one had seen anything happen ten years ago, we are also struggling with a huge maintenance run in almost every sector. Uncritical growth in public administration and operation has gone at the expense of necessary maintenance. These are challenges that the new government inherits. To claim that the government comes to the table of cloth and cloth is a truth with a reasonable amount of modification. If we are to free up resources for the important tasks, we must be able to do things differently and tolerate re-prioritizing. Systematic digitisation, simplification processes and measures to increase purchasing competence are important keywords. A little review of the main lines of the Left option: As has been said before from this speaker chair: We have the same oil money usage as the Stoltenberg government. The left is still critical for more use of oil money. The problem in Norway is not that we use too little oil money, but that the use has gone too little to the objective of the rule of action, investments in lasting values such as knowledge and infrastructure. The left will also be moderate in oil money use in the coming budget, but has clear real priorities. We have a number of systematic measures to counter the two-parties of Norwegian business: 2.2 billion. kr more in business tax bills, SEK 4.3 billion. ■ various targeted measures through Innovation in Norway and SIVA, etc. Strengthening the system of nationwide deployment, strengthening the environmental technology system, clustering programme with GCE, incubator schemes – to name a few. We have a strong commitment to research, not least in the field of nutrition research, by over 1 billion. kr. Collect Left approximately 6.5 billion. Compared to both the Stoltenberg and Solberg Governments with their proposals to strengthen business. Increased investment in education, education and research: In this area, the government of Solberg is far better than its government of Stoltenberg, but it remains a long way to ensure that the left is satisfied. This is particularly true of the level of ambition of research, higher education and student welfare. The left suggests a total increase in school, education and research of 2.5 billion. SEK over the Stoltenberg Government's proposal, and 2 billion. kr over the Solberg Government's proposal. A very offensive environmental and climate policy: the most important thing is over 2 billion. kr more for rail, operation and maintenance. Fortunately, some of this was corrected by the budgetary agreement compared to the Stoltenberg Government’s proposal, so that the railway operation is now reinforced by 650 million. kr. In addition, there is a strong commitment to new renewable energy production, including: to create the company Norwegian renewable with an investment capital of 3 billion. kr. Together, the Left proposes an extra effort on environmental and climate action of over 3 billion. kr. A targeted poverty effort: the left suggests a number of measures, including: free core time in kindergartens for children in low-income families, as suggested by the Distribution Selection to the previous government, but which the government itself did not follow up – then I am talking about the red-green government – increase social contributions by 10 p.m., the conversion of child benefit and child care payments and the SFO, so that the poorest get more child benefit and less child support, a range of proposals to help disadvantaged people into working life, and a strong boost in drug treatment, psychiatry and child protection. In addition, the Left proposes a monthly tax base for those with the lowest income in our tax base. Last, but not least, we're going to have a green tax change of about 7 billion. kr, where it pays to live environmentally friendly, save, work and invest in, own and run Norwegian business and Norwegian jobs. People and businesses want to set up for the environment and future generations their freedom to enjoy and use nature as we have enjoyed. An important task for us politicians is to allow them to do it. Therefore, a green tax shift is important, a tax system for the future. On top of that, I'm going to need a little precision. Under Framework Area 3 Culture, production support, I have a note that is based on previous work by an incurrency. This year, in our alternative budget, we have put no pressure on the press, and we are pleased that we have agreed in the conciliation to continue the press support at the 2013 level. Finally, I take up the Left suggestion in the configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e835	The representative of Terje Breivik has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e841	I want to start by commending the Left for having managed to reverse important parts of the government's cut and thus brought the budget closer to the starting point of the red-green government. Equally large penetration unfortunately did not have the left on the oil money farm. The alternative budget of the Left is set at the same level as the Stoltenberg II government, but after the agreement with the Christian People's Party, the Progress Party and the Right, the Left will thus vote subsidiaryly to increase the use of oil by billions. I would therefore like to ask Mr Breivik to clarify the Left's position here. Which of the levels of oil money use does the representative consider to be the most financially responsible – the Left vote on the primary, or the Left vote on the secondary?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e846	First, I would like to thank the representative of the prestigious introduction. It was very nice. When it comes to the use of oil money, I refer to what I said in my main post: the left is still skeptical about more oil money and will also have the same hold in future budgetary processes and assume that the use of oil money should be prudent. The use of oil money should go far beyond what has been the case under the control of the red-greens, to the tasks that were primarily intended, such as growth-promoting measures, research, knowledge and not least infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e853	I would like to begin by congratulating the Left on its own draft budget which clearly shows the profile and priorities of the Left for 2014. Now there is no majority in favour of that proposal, and the Left has entered into a budgetary agreement with the Right-wing Party Government and the Christian People's Party. I would like to ask the representative how he believes that the ideological profile of the Left has been reflected in the budgetary agreement concluded by the party with the Right-wing-Fremskrit party government. Do we see here the beginning of a rotation of the party's profile away from the social liberal stand and into a more right populist?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e858	Thank you again for the congratulations from the representative Johansen. When it relates to the profile, it's right. This is one of the important things about really having an alternative budget that shows the primary positions, which is the profile left turned into choices, and on which we have now translated into practical and economic policies. When it comes to the budgetary agreement for which we are going to vote secondary today, there is no doubt that there are very many important areas for the Left, etc. on the tax incentive, advantage for Norwegian business, there is a completely different railway investment from that of the previous government, and many other areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e867	The representative Breivik mentions several times that the government’s budget in many and important areas is much better than what it presented – I kept saying – to the government. In addition, Breivik is quite strong in saying that you have to dry to re-prioritize. That's something we in the government parties also put ourselves strongly behind. During his speech he addressed a number of targeted actions through the instrument that he wanted strengthened. The Applicant has traditionally been concerned about, but also critically on some occasions. I can join some of the things he brings up, but is it still such that the Left is also critical of the device and would like to see you go through it carefully to see that it really works?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e876	I get to take the short version, and then the answer is yes, we're still very busy. What is important, and which is the background to the fact that we in the Left have a huge array of different measures in our alternative budget – we are very pleased that we have had some success in the conciliation – is that we are forced to do something about one of the major challenges now, namely that Norway is losing so much ground on international statistics on innovation, innovation and founding. In that context, we must, among other things: go through the instrumentation device critically, strengthen the instrumentation on the things that we know work, etc., among other things. look at Innovation Norway and its strengthening and modification – and SIVA. We've got a verbal proposal in common in the agreement that's going to evaluate a seed fund scheme that's mainly directed towards the incubators, the TTOs and the business community, all of which are very important things to get something done about this problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e883	I want to say first that I think that the representative Breivik is a sensible guy, and that the left is a party that has a lot of right policies that I understand, and that I understand the logic of. But then, of course, that's not all I understand the logic of, and that's why I want to get an additional deepening of it. Now the representative Breivik has been involved in this with a green tax shift. Then he refers to the increase in the mineral oil charge as a measure there. I mean, there's a logic in it. When it comes to electricity, it's like in Norway that we just said we have renewable electricity. In many ways, I think it would make sense to stimulate this, but here an electricity charge is increased. Then my question is, how is it environmentally friendly – to increase the electricity charge?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e890	First of all, I would like to reiterate that joy is mutual, and it has been a pleasure both to negotiate the budget and to become a colleague of the Finance Committee with the Hagesets. When it comes to electricity taxes, there is no doubt that it is important to get incentives for a completely different investment in accumulators. It also provides much better facilities for district heating installations, which is an important measure not least in large cities. It will also next release renewable energy — a resource in which there is a great shortage — which will improve in five, ten, fifteen years, which can allow us to export and help reduce Europe’s dependence on coal power. So I think that both myself and the representative Hagesetset are now looking forward to this energy message that the government has said in the statement that they will come, and that I believe is a very important management tool to see things in context, and not least look forward to the future by 2050-2060.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e899	I've realized that there's been a new custom in Stortinget, so I'd first like to say that I think the representative Breivik is a nice and cozy man. [[muttering in the hall]] So I've noticed the Left's positions regarding individual enterprises. There's the Center Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left in the same tradition; we're busy with the little businessmen. Therefore, my question to the representative Breivik is: Does the Left think it is wise to cut so much in incentives to help small entrepreneurs through regional development funds and Innovation Norway? Point two: Does the Left consider it a wise priority to increase social security contributions for individual enterprises?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e906	Again, I can reply in the same way to the representative of the Battle Violence Vedum. When it comes to these regional means of development, I assume that Battle violence Vedum has looked a little bit at Left's alternative budget and seen that we have a cut that's less separate. When it comes to the Left's alternative state budget and, to the extent that it is also reconciled, there is no doubt that there are very many instruments that also contribute to strengthening the industry in the districts. So here you have to see the whole thing – and see it in context.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e913	The fact that the Left has its own alternative state budget helps to make the policy of the Left visible – and that is good for the representative of Breivik. But it also helps to make visible that the Left largely operates the limitation of damage in its comparison with the Right and the Advance Party. One thing is to get through your own bets – I want to give Left praise perhaps especially for the increase in the mineral oil tax and the investment on the railway, which is very good for the environment – but in other areas left has not come as far. Where it may be the most serious, it is in terms of international solidarity. With the budget we adopt today, the red-green parties are more than 400 million. Over the Left in aid, and we are opening up 500 more quota refugees as refugees from war and distress. I would like the representative Breivik to reflect a little bit on it, and I would also like to say something about what he thinks the Left could achieve if they had cooperated with someone other than the Right and the Advance Party on these kinds of questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e923	Once again, I can tell the representative Serigstad Valen that if he sees in his alternative budget, this type of action is really strong, compared to the budget that the representative Serigstad Valen is expected to vote for later today. When this is the case with so-called damage limitation, we have really used the greatest means of re-establishing the missing priorities from the red-green ones, among others. for railway operation and maintenance, a total of 650 million. kr, and not least this premise that really benefits the weakest of the weakest – traffic damage, severe brain damage, etc. Thus, Serigstad Valen should read the budget with slightly different glasses before he is so categorical in what we have achieved in the budget agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e932	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e935	I'm happy in retro. I like old records, I like old, stylish clothes, I like 1970s and 1980s music – especially the 1980s – and I like art deco. There's a lot of people who like retro stuff. But this is the first time I've seen a retro-state budget [[muttering in the hall]] True enough – many old ideas are holding up. Democracy does it, human rights do it, the welfare state does it, the idea whether the Republic does it — and we could have picked it up in Norway too — the pencil will last and the wheel will last. But that's not all you have to bring up again. There are some things that should be left on history's scrap pile. Yes time is something I don't think we need again. A policy of increasing economic differences between people is not something we need to go back to. Targeted policies for more women to be at home instead of working are not back on track – other than in the Mad Men TV series – and should not be. But that's exactly what the right-hand side is doing with this budget. It is a policy that, in the policy of distribution, equality policy and its view of what is good, responsible economic policy, smells a little wall-to-wall carpet. Norway has been an exception in the last eight years — a country where the economic differences between people have decreased. It is those who have had little, who have received more, and those who have much, have paid much more taxes under red-green rule. It has made us an oasis in a Europe marked by economic and social crisis. Many people say we're lucky to have the oil that helps us through such problems. And that's true – the oil has given us a lot of wealth that we've distributed well. However, many countries are as rich in oil as Norway, which are not characterised by low differences and high wealth. On the contrary, many countries are rich in natural resources, characterised by exchange, corruption, mismanagement and violence. It's the policy, the administration of wealth, that has made us rich and alike. There are heavier times predicted for the Norwegian economy next year. Perhaps we will notice more of the crisis in Norway as well — and that requires political answers. But what kind of policies we respond to is not immaterial. Many countries in Europe have responded to the crisis of tax cuts and large cuts in welfare. Not one place has it worked. It has thrown countries after countries into crisis and great unrest, with millions of young people who no longer have a future. Just as the deregulation experiments in the 1980s and 1990s around the world went really badly, so this cure has gone really bad. Then it's surprising that while in the rest of the world you're really experiencing that tax cuts and welfare cuts are not working, a new government in Norway is going to say that we have to try this in Norway, because we haven't tried that before. Taxation and welfare is an old-fashioned and tried-and-tested policy, and we see the disastrous results of such a policy across Europe. Claiming that the cuts are growth-promoting is only possible if one has grown up within the Party of Advancement and the Right Party programme, because the Ministry of Finance is at least not able to answer direct questions about whether they can demonstrate any growth effect, for example. by removing the inheritance fee. This morning I heard the representative Svein Fleet from the Right speaking in Political Quarter. He said that the red-green government has not prepared enough in bad times, and used the oil money incorrectly. I think most people would think that former finance minister Kristin Halvorsen's handling of the financial crisis was a masterful piece of work, but I understand that the Right for party political reasons is unable to admit it. So what does the Right – Right, that tracks downtime next year, and that just got government power, Right, that thinks it's important to prepare for bad times, Right, that will facilitate growth, Right, that will counteract oil dependence and a two-way economy? Do they reduce the use of oil money and our dependence on oil? On the contrary, they are increasing the use of oil money. Do they strengthen the tools for entrepreneurs and industrial development? No, on the contrary: they are cutting in the tool for nutrient development. Do they make it possible for more people to work? No, on the contrary: they pay more women their best age to stay home and not work, while they warn cut off the payments to the disabled, those who can't work. And instead, they go in to increase the use of oil money, to facilitate an increase in the doubling of the economy, and to give billions of dollars to some of the richest people in the country. 40 pst. of the money Right and the Advance Party gives in tax bills, goes to 4 pst. by the population, and those who receive millions in tax relief, are being prepared for better times – it is right in the right – but the others are not. The rest of us have to pay, by reducing the number of fathers with their children, by cutting children’s pensions by making families pay more for a nursery. And by pumping up our common resources at a higher rate and using more, we all contribute to the removal of the greatest burden of our time in the right-hand side, namely the inheritance fee. The right does not fix problems that exist; they fix problems that exist in their own ideological minds. The government cannot point to any economic impact of this grip, but they do, and it is – if not otherwise – in combination with lowering the wealth tax a very effective refund to the groups that funded the right-hand election campaign. With this state budget, the government is introducing a whole new gender equality policy in Norway, and it's a kind of equality policy we've seen before, and I thought we were done. The last right led the country, they had to be forced into the kindergarten reform. All honor to Siv Jensen, who was at that time involved. When the Right now has government power again, there is a complete stop in the kindergarten bet – no bet. On the contrary, kindergartens are becoming more expensive, and the Right promise of more admissions this year is broken. The representative Linda C. Hofstad Helleland last year referred to as a betrayal of families with children, now makes the Right itself, with much more money available – no more babysitting. Clearly, what is most important to the Right cannot be demonstrated. There will be more cash support instead, less paperwork, and until then the government budgets for more women to stay home on the kitchen bench. The world has to break free from fossil energy sources if our grandchildren and great-grandchildren are to have a safe planet to live on. A future oil-dependent world is a world of higher seas, fewer species, lack of food and water and millions of climate refugees, and in this perspective, the state budget is striking in its lack of ambitions. I want to pay great tribute to the Left and Christian People's Party for having managed to straighten out many of the cuts to the right and get new bets in the environment, but the basics are not possible. How clever is it to make us more dependent on oil, when we know that two thirds of all the oil in the world must be below the ground if we're going to reach the two-degree goal? What kind of a signal is it to cut off the instrument for the development of nutrients other than oil? What does the Right and Advance Party try to tell us when they cut hundreds of millions in the rainforest bet – that climate is important, but not important enough? In other areas too, there is little environmental policy to track from the new government. This morning, the representative even mentioned the Fleet of the Right Coal Compensation Scheme for industry as one of the small issues in the State budget. It is therefore the signal they give to the green industry of the future, which is the signal they give to the industry in Norway: their framework conditions are small things, and otherwise we will increase the use of oil money, contrary to both sensible climate policies and the recommendations of a global mainland industry. There are several old ideas that are great to keep on in Norway. Spleiselag is a nice thing, and hard work is a nice thing we in Norway are happy about. The government introduces a new concept with its changes to the State budget, and it is done from below. It's that students and families have to pay for someone else to get more. But the cultural field is not saved either. Neither is our common cultural heritage, our rich cultural life, and the value it is for our inhabitants, to be saved. The media diversity must be cut in, with large cuts in the press stand. The Culture Council, with the means at its disposal, for example: The association!les, Trondheim Jazz Orchestra, the Bjørnson Festival or the Landslag for local history. That's where it's supposed to be cut. Norsk Film is going to get less money. It shall be cut at international level. It is cut in aid, we accept fewer people as refugees from war, distress and persecution. You cut into equal opportunities throughout the country. Minister of Finance Siv Jensen has shown great efficiency and creativity in finding a cut. None of this has the Advance Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left Party to do. Someone has to pay, so someone can get. That is why I believe that a lot can be said about the majority in this Chamber, but I must agree with the priority that they are good at.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e964	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e967	I think it might be time for the Red-Greens to realize that the voters had seen through the tax rhetoric and rejected the red-green policy by giving the Workers' Party the worst election result since 1924 and the SV's policy the worst uprising ever. Maybe it might have something to do with my questions. In 2005, SV promised full child care coverage within two years, otherwise the then Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen would go. She took, as we know, responsibility and remained seated. On page 8 of the document ‘SV has delivered!’ we can read that all children have had their children’s gardening space. So SV says that we have had full child care coverage with them in government, despite the fact that we have also retained the cash support for the entire eight-year period. What makes it so insensitive to get two babysittings this year? If we have full babysitting, we don't really need it. The question is: Has SV delivered full child care coverage, or have they not?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e974	I don't feel exactly needed up in a corner. It's true that it didn't take two years to provide full babysitting; it took almost three. That's what I think is a good business, and it was a bet that the government made because the Right wasn't willing to do it. The right had to be forced into the kindergarten reform. When the representative Nordby Lunde asks me about the need for more babysitting this year, it is probably few who are better suited to answer it than the Right self. The representative, Ingerd Schou, promised several kindergarten admissions this year as late as September, a few days before the election campaign, and the representative, Linda C. Hofstad Helleland from my county, Sør-Trøndelag, said that it was a betrayal of the families of children not to get to two kindergarten admissions this year. The fact that you have full babysitting so that everyone within a year and a half gets kindergarten does not mean that we are satisfied and that everything is perfect. That's why we've found room in our budgets for two babysittings. It doesn't have the Right, contrary to their election vows. It is the Right that must answer for and not the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e981	The debate on two kindergarten admissions came because of the lack of childcare coverage, and SV is now saying that they have not provided enough nursery facilities to maintain the work line. All families of children interpret ‘child care coverage’ as meaning that all children are given kindergarten if they need it, where they need it. SV will also remove the cash support, which has been a lifeline for all those who are paid for childcare, for those families with children who have discovered what full child care really means. At the same time, they are proposing to provide only 241 million in the budget. SEK of the 1.5 billion. it costs to introduce two kindergarten admissions per year. This is according to the red-green one third of the places that need to create two recordings. That means that two thirds of the families who need childcare would have been left without both childcare and cash support for childcare, including Ivar and Magda in Alta. So I wonder how the representative Serigstad Valen proposes that the thousands of families – in fact 6,000 – should organise their everyday lives?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e986	I have to admit that I don't know exactly what to answer for here, because it's proven that there's an SV that prioritises more babysitting in its budget, and that with 4 billion fewer dollars available than that right-hand side has, while the Right doesn't prioritize any more babysitting. So how children's families are going to get up every day without having children's playground when they need it is something Prime Minister Erna Solberg should be asked about in this room, and not signed, which represents, first of all, a party that has fulfilled all of its promises in the kindergarten field in the last eight years, and which continues to prioritise it in the opposition. Right does not prioritise kindergartens either in the opposition or in the position.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e991	Today's Business Friday, November 22nd this year, we could read that the group leader of the DNB expressed concern about a development in which there is an increasing division of the housing market, and that it has become very difficult for young people in the start-up phase to enter the market without the help of very resource-intensive families. These problems are complex, but to some extent they are due to a sharp increase in construction costs due to rigid technical requirements. Then my question goes to the representative Snorre Serigstad Valen, who is happy in retro and does not like social inequalities: how can SV explain this development that has happened in the last eight years under red-green rule?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e996	Norway has one of the most deregulated housing markets in Europe. It is a follow-up from a former retro prime minister period with the Right, when the government Willoch deregulated the housing market. This means that we have had a price development in the Norwegian housing market that is unfortunate and makes it difficult for many people to enter the housing market. I am, as the representative quite rightly says, concerned with social equality, equal rights and equal opportunities for all, and many of the requirements that the right-hand side constantly refers to as unnecessary bureaucratic requirements, are requirements that are there to ensure that everyone, for example. shall have access to dwellings, to visit each other and to allow disabled persons to have full life as everyone else. There's nothing to fool and polemize with, I think. I think it would be better for the Right to answer for why they have abandoned the means they said they should implement in the housing policy. For example, they promised. removing the equity requirement for the purchase of a dwelling. I as an SV think it's unreasonable, and I'm glad that the Right now has come to the same conclusion, although it's a clear breach of promise.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1003	In the budgetary agreement between the government parties and the Christian People's Party and the Left, it was corrected in the red-greens' cutbacks in the scheme of social assistance measures for the non-residents under the auspices of non-governmental organisations. Then I would like to ask: will SV support this proposal, which they obviously lost in the budget discussion with the Labour Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1009	I believe that there should only be a lack of the right-hand side parties, which, despite the technical advice, spend 4 billion more oil crowns, find no room for any more single bets than the SV, the Workers' Party and the Center Party do. It's not a question of who loses or wins, but that we give priority, and that we don't give priority to spending the billions on tax bills for 4 pst. by the population of the country. All credit to the Left and Christian People's Party for some of the individual things they've come through to meet with the Advance Party and the Right, but the social sum of that reconciliation I would never be able to stand for. That is why I will not vote in favour of the reconciliation of the Christian People's Party and the Left with the government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1014	Both from the representative Serigstad Valen now and some time after the election, we have seen a great many contributions from members of the Socialist Left Party expressing concern about Norwegian oil dependency – a concern such as the Left Party. But then it's worth reminding SV that they've been sitting in the government that has made Norway and Norwegian economy oil dependent, and there's nothing in the budget that the representative Serigstad Valen is voting for today, which makes Norway less oil dependent, rather the opposite. So my question is simply why the representative Serigstad Valen is voting for a budget that leads to the opposite of what his party is constantly pointing out, and not least when he has his left budget as an alternative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1019	First, we spend less oil money than the conciliators on the right-hand side do, so we're by definition less oil dependent in our budget. In a line exchange earlier, the representative Breivik pointed out that our government, which has now resigned, lowered the corporate tax in our company, and there we did a grip where we increased the oil tax instead, just to move money from Norwegian base and to invest in mainland. For example, from very specific points of view. mention the instrument for industrial development in the regions of the Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party, to reduce the development of industry outside the oil sector. It is a major problem, it is entirely agreed by the Left and the SV, that so much capital in Norway finds its way to the oil sector and not elsewhere. But I think Breivik will learn that over the next four years, SV will be in charge of a line in its alternative budgets that will result in much less use of oil money than the Left will vote in favour of in the Chamber together with the Advance Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1024	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1027	The Green Party yesterday presented its first alternative state budget. We're proud of that. It's not a matter of course to complete an alternative budget during our first few weeks at Stortinget. We are not in the Finance Committee, so we are aware that other parties have not been given the opportunity to look at our proposal in detail, but we challenge all parties to read our budget for a green transition and take the debate on this in the future. Norway relies too much on being a major supplier of global warming. We fund too much of the well-being of oil money and too little through the community. We need to develop a new business that can take over the oil sector in a few decades. Whatever economic development in Norway, our future well-being depends on a fairly well-functioning world around us. Nor will Norway be a good country to live in if too many other countries and people have unmanageable climate and resource problems. COP 19 in Warsaw made it clearer than ever that climate responsibility must be taken nationally before being taken internationally. The Environment Party The Greens budget assumes that Norway has unique opportunities and a historic space of action now. We have people and competences that can build the next generation of Norway. All parties say they want to convert to sustainability, but no one has yet put the political force behind these desires. Such conversion is not automatic, while the political majority prioritises oil and gas activities as far as possible. So we're putting forward a tight, solidarity and responsible budget, where we spend 10 billion less oil crowns than the civilians and 6 billion. kr less than the red-green. Let's take in 3 billion. kr more in tax, while those who serve at least are relieved. The welfare state must be increasingly financed by the community rather than by savings. Our budget starts with the transfer of values from the oil and gas sector to investment in sustainable development nationally and internationally. We're reducing the state's investment in the oil sector, we're increasing the CO2 tax and the tax, so we're adding the Pension Fund 21 billion. kr. This will reduce Norway’s dominant contribution to global warming, namely oil and gas exports. At the same time, it will dampen wage and consumption growth and will stimulate innovation and new business. The Greens have a budget of 4 billion. kr on the table of the UN Climate Fund and forecasts an increase to a climate percentage of GDP in addition to the aid rate. If the government had done this in Warsaw rather than prioritizing tax relief, the world could have a little more hope of cooperation and a little less chance of new typhoons like the one that created the disaster in the Philippines recently. We invite other parties to develop the proposal for a Norwegian climate percentage. In addition, we are starting the construction of a new large ocean wind program, which will be added to a total of 50 billion by 2038. kr, to develop new jobs and international exports. We are proposing additional instruments in taxes and taxes and appropriations for research and information for a sustainable business, and we are strengthening the government's already good commitment to environmentally friendly transport by transferring 2 billion. kr to rail from road. We're building international electric car charging networks, and we're starting to dampen the growth of air traffic. And then we double the appropriations for walking and cycling by 1 billion. NOK, and we put in place a reward scheme for bicycle measures in the municipalities. Norwegian nature and species diversity give us experiences and knowledge, but it is not least a very important resource base for future industrial development. That is why the Environment Party ensures the budget of the Greens for the conservation and management of nature and natural resources, while at the same time stimulating innovative and sustainable use of Norwegian nature. It is the policy's task to facilitate an increasingly environmentally friendly consumption and behaviour of people. We give priority to a number of measures that stimulate proper environmental choices through the conversion of taxes, such as VAT exemptions on organic products. For the time being, the Green Party is the only party on the Stortinget that is sufficiently system-critical to start the conversion to a sustainable Norway now. We are confident that the state budget we are now presenting will mark the budgets of other parties in the years to come, and we are looking forward to a debate that will speed up the political renewal of other parties in the years to come. Then I will address the Greens' proposals for framework decisions, in line with our alternative state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1053	The representative Rasmus Hansson has taken up the proposal to which he referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1058	Let me first congratulate the representative Rasmus Hansson and the Greens with his first alternative state budget. There is a lot of good environmental policy in the budget on which the Left can absolutely support. That being said, I wonder that, through its alternative budget, as far as I can see, MDG will actually make public finances partly more oil-dependent. In any case, it is difficult to conclude in any other way when I read it in part on the creative books that are made on the income page. Because when one proposes to increase taxes and charges on the base rather dramatically and to use revenue to increase public expenditure and not to strengthen the State pension fund abroad, it is a step towards making Norwegian welfare more oil dependent, as well as being a possible breach of the regulations. This seemed to me to be a safe way to undermine the rules of action for oil money use. Can the representative Hansson explain why his party wants to make public finances more oil dependent?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1065	If the representative Rotevatn had read correctly, the question would have been very timely. Our government budget does not bring these funds into the budget. They are led to the state pension fund abroad, just to avoid what we fully agree with the representative Rotevatn that would be a very unfortunate result of reducing the activity of the oil. That would give what Rotevatn says if we had used this money to increase the activity of the Norwegian economy, but we don't.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1070	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1073	Norwegian society creates great values. We have good welfare systems that embrace wide, and we have little differences. It is very good to take care of and further develop in our society. We still have some important, long-term challenges. In the last year, we have seen that growth in the Norwegian economy has slowed down. We see that unemployment has increased in the last year. And during yesterday and today, we have received two reports that describe more pessimism among the population of Norway and greater challenges and more pessimism among enterprises in Norway. The last report is also based largely on what has been discussed earlier today, the relationship between the level of costs and productivity growth in recent years. We have now met the wall, it looks like the NHO report, in relation to the cost level, not only for those parts that are not oil- and gas-related, but also for the oil- and gas-related parts of the economy. This means that the companies have become more pessimistic and that the uncertainty has increased. These are serious signals, but I want to say that we are not defenceless. If we pursue a policy to strengthen the competitiveness of Norwegian businesses, this will be with warnings of difficult times, but not realised difficult times. And then we see positive signs of development among our major trading partners and in Europe too. We depend on that we do not see any more weakening in Germany and Sweden, to be sure that the international impulse is not also negative. Because if it does, we will face major negative changes in the Norwegian economy in our near future. Then it is essential that we make the right political priorities. The aim is to strengthen the competitiveness of Norwegian enterprises. Our competitiveness has gradually weakened in the last eight years. In economic policy, we have to ask ourselves two important questions: how much money we are going to spend on the state budget and how we are going to spend it. The budgetary agreement between the four co-operation parties is based on the proposals of the Right-wing-Fremskritsparte-Government and provides a good response to both of these challenges. This is a budget that strengthens Norway's competitiveness both in the short and long term. In the short term, the budget is well adapted to the economic situation. Yeah, it's a little bit more stimulating, because the economy's slacked up a little bit. At the same time, however, it is growth-promoting measures that help us to stand more rusty in competition in the future. In the long term, it makes Norway more robust and creates new jobs. We're increasing the amount of knowledge in the school. We prioritise more money for research and higher education. We lower taxes on ordinary employees and on ownership and inheritance. We build more roadways and better collectives, and we give priority to actions that track those who come after us. It was our opposition policy, and it's going to be our policy in position, securing Norwegian competitiveness and ensuring that the future is better for our descendants. At the same time, it is important that we close several holes in our social security network. It has also begun in this budget. exposed groups should be given a better offer. We give priority to an organized and adapted day-to-day school for children in the care of children, and adults with reading and writing difficulties get a better offer. It's not the biggest posts in the government budget, but it means enormously for those who need it, because it means that they get an opportunity to participate in the future. In the health care sector, we reduce health cows by using the free capacity of private individuals, and we give priority to patients in the areas of mental health protection, alcohol and rehabilitation first. That's where the hole in our safety net is the largest. And the justice sector is getting a lot of upgrade. Strengthening the social security network is also closely linked to competitiveness. The basis for getting a better welfare offer in the future is that we take care of our most important resource, namely the people who live in Norway. Then we have to keep unemployment low and employment high. Nor should we forget those groups that are completely out of work. Then I must be allowed to say: it is unfortunately not as Jonas Gahr Støre said earlier today, that everyone who wants it is working in Norway. Many people who want to work encounter barriers to their working life. Simple disability makes it difficult to get a job. We have started the work we promised on the Sundvolden platform. This budget is well adapted to the economic times, and we're solving the issues we're told to solve.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1096	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1100	It is a quality sign in Norway that the country is characterised by less differences than in most other countries. It is a value in itself because all people should have the same opportunities to use their abilities and facilities. It's also a value because we know that societies characterized by small differences are also societies with less conflict and greater ability to promise. Since 2005, differences in Norway have decreased. Now we've got a government budget on the table that the government itself confirms will help increase the differences. There are many forces in society that are moving toward increasing differences. Then it is all the more important that policies move towards smaller differences. Now we see the opposite, that the budget, the policy, reinforces a trend towards increasing differences. My question to the Prime Minister is whether she agrees that there is an unfortunate development that the differences are going to increase as a result of the government's government budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1109	I think it is incredibly important that we ensure a welfare development in Norway that makes all groups go along with it. And then I really think that the Workers' Party prefaces this debate. I think Anniken Huitfeldt had a good record right when she left, when she said that we have to discuss what the poverty challenge really is, and what are the big questions, instead of looking at statistics. If you look at the question of who gets tax relief, it's actually like those who invest the most in Norwegian businesses, and pay the most property tax, get more tax relief than others with the scheme we have. We also dissolve in the legacy that Jens Stoltenberg left behind – he had created a tax system in imbalance – by not only lowering the tax on businesses, but also for employees in Norway. But that's not the inequality. The inequality is when children don't have the money to participate in normal activities. That's when your parents are... [[a glass of water falls on the floor and is crushed]] When their parents are in a situation where they run and don't get help – that's what really creates the worst balance [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1120	Zealous, or not - speaking time must be respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1123	It's going hard in the Storting! [[Laughter]] It's not going to get past the fact that what's happening to this budget is that you spend a lot of billions of dollars that have the effect of reinforcing the differences in Norway. Without comparison, the strongest bet area in this budget is spending $8 billion. kr of reduced tax, and most of it goes to those who have the most from before. We're talking about tens of thousands of the richest, and maybe a few hundred patches for those who have ordinary incomes. If you, for example, if you have children in kindergarten, your child's garden prices increase more than you get in tax cuts. So when you choose to spend billions of dollars so that the richest get the most, it's a contribution to increasing the differences in Norway. When I take it up, it's because it's a first step in a direction that this government has warned to go more, and that will reinforce the differences. We see that even though Norway has had small differences, it can change quickly. In the last 20 years, Sweden, our neighbouring country, has experienced very dramatic increases in differences, among other things. as a result of a policy that has not taken this into account. So I repeat, does the Prime Minister see that it is unfortunate that the differences are going to increase with the government's budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1134	I'm absolutely sure the direction we've been pointing out will help more people get a better future in Norway, and that many of the poorest, those who are about to fall out of work, get better help coming back. That means that the most vulnerable groups get better. One of the reasons I'm concerned about e.g. The difficulty in reading and writing to adults is that this is the recipe for not being able to spend time in the workplace. That's why I have a great commitment to it. We have to move from the proud mountain macro-tank process down to the micro-level and sometimes ask ourselves the question: why are there people falling outside? Why are there children in poverty? And what do we do to equip them to get out of poverty? There's this government busy. That's why we're going to have a better, more targeted and effective fight against what's social exclusion in our society, and that's the important thing. So it could be that there's an income distribution that gives a slightly larger difference. In that case, it will not be the most important thing. If children can meet at school and know that they are safe the next day, and that their parents have been helped, that's the most important basis for people to survive in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1143	The Christian People's Party is very pleased with the budget agreement, which guarantees 1 pst. of GNI for just assistance. I would also say that the government of Solberg can be inspired by Prime Minister Cameron, who has had to cut significantly, but has just chosen to keep a significant share of aid, and not cut there. But even more important than the level itself is that we ensure a good quality of assistance. That is why the Christian People's Party has always given priority to educational aid. I am pleased that there is agreement between the cooperation parties on prioritizing this. The Prime Minister himself has said that this is an important matter. My question is, how will a bet be executed? Can Norway take a global leadership in the fight for girls’ education in developing countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1152	I believe that we have had some unfortunate developments in the distribution of government aid funds in Norway in recent years, where the education issue has become a priority; it is no longer a main objective of Norwegian aid. I think it's good that with a new government we get this back, and especially the girls' education, because it has so much meaning for so many other goals, for example. This means lower infant mortality, later births, and that their children are once again developing better. That's why this is one of the core elements of creating social change from the bottom up: ensuring that girls are educated. Yes, we can take an international leadership. Ban Ki-moon has asked me to be the vice president of a group working on the eight Millennium Goals to ensure greater implementation. I've also told him that I have a special commitment to this particular goal, because development stopped in 2008. It should be active back again.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1159	In its budget, the government has taken a step away from the active industrial policy pursued by the red-green government for eight years, with good results for jobs and industrial development throughout the country. One goes back towards a business-neutral policy, as we know it from the Bondevik government. When there are many of the government's proposals, which increase costs for the fisheries sector, reduce CO2 compensation for the power-intensive industry, increase taxes for the food industry, alert customs changes, negative consequences of changes in the write-off rules for single-hull businesses, cut regional development funds and food products, to name a few – does Prime Minister Solberg see that there can be a link between the insecurity government has created too much of the Norwegian product-producing industry, and the pessimism expressed in two measurements made yesterday and today?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1169	I have read the measurements, and what they say, is that increasing pessimism is about the cost challenges in Norway. It's about the lack of productivity, it's about what the red-greens have tried to talk about this year after year isn't a big problem, but that's the big break with what was the Nordic model. In the socio-economic debate, the Nordic model was a question of ensuring that productivity is so high that there is a strong welfare state and a high level of wages. In Norway, because of the oil money, we have been able to look at it in the last few years. We have had higher wage levels and higher cost levels than what is actually our productivity growth in the future. That's why it's so important what the government is doing to reduce costs. Cutting taxes on wealth is reducing the cost of Norwegian employment, making sure that more roads are built is reducing costs, investing in more knowledge is increasing the level of innovation. Then we put a lot of money on research and development, on innovative instruments, which contribute to more robust jobs in the future. We have a good industrial policy in this budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1176	I have also read the NHO barometer in the same way as the Prime Minister – that we have a huge challenge of having a very two-part economy, with an oil economy that is bare-bred from farms, while we see that other parts of the Norwegian economy and Norwegian business life are being weakened. This takes some time to turn around, I understand, even when you inherit a budget. But we need to take quite dramatic steps forward to be able to reverse it, both by making us less oil addicts and by investing in the green, more forward-looking business. Because the threats we face if our oil doesn't become as attractive on the market as it is today are, are we really pulling the plug out of the Norwegian economy? So the question is whether the Prime Minister is willing to do the really big grips. In that case, she'll have the Left on the team in the next budgets to get some proper smoking.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1183	I believe that this government should be willing to do the big grips. It's not sure that these are the same grips that the left will always prescribe that we're going to prescribe. But I want to say that the report that came from the NHO today was slightly different from the previous two-part reports, for the first and most important message it brings, is that it has also stopped with regard to the demand effects of oil and gas activities. In other words, it is because both parts now go worse – because of our cost level – that there is actually a challenge: greater pessimism and greater challenges. That means that we have to look at all the elements that in the short term contribute to higher costs, and that the long-term perspective of how we transform our economy needs to be more robust. Yes, there are some green issues about environmental technologies that are important to achieve that. I also believe that we have a great potential in health, care technologies and other areas if we also develop the public sector to become a better and more innovative buyer.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1191	So today's budget means 7 000 fewer kindergartens, 600 million. kr in cut, longer waiting time and higher prices in the country's kindergartens. A few weeks ago, the Prime Minister, in his spontaneous questioning, canceled the target of two admissions to the nursery this year and said that the government would instead introduce ‘running admission’. It sounds more ambitious in the first place – it seems that children should be able to take even faster places in kindergarten than with two admissions per year. But there's something unclear what the government puts in the term. If continuous recording means that the municipalities already practice today, namely that a child who is in line can get a seat if there is a free space, it is not a new grip at all. Can the Prime Minister explain to us what ‘running admission’ means — whether it is more or less ambitious than the red-green proposal for two admissions per year?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1198	We're going to develop different models for continuous recording, and we're going to do that every year. In this budget, we chose to give priority to the things we promised were most important in the election campaign, for example. to invest in knowledge and competence — to implement what SV has been talking about for eight years, but has done nothing about, for example: to raise the level of continuing training of teachers. I believe that the biggest election vow that has been broken this fall is that the red-green government, despite all the money it spent extra, did not spend any more on continuing training of teachers. Nor did it prepare the capacity for further training of teachers in the future. I want to say, yes, there are some things that SV prioritised in front of knowledge in school, that we don't agree with, so we prioritised knowledge in school rather than implementing SV's promises. Then we come back to a more flexible, more continuous recording in kindergartens. But it's clear that a change of government means that the things that have come into government, the highest priority, get room. And so we prioritised knowledge in school and education higher than what SV did.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1205	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1208	Norway is a country characterised by smaller differences, more equality and more commonality than most other countries. The budget of the previous government continued this policy. Now we have received the government statement and the state budget from the new government. We're looking at some areas where promises are broken. In other areas, policies are being changed. The advance party promised Norwegian drivers that they would not pay one kroner in tolls, they would have to pay more. Despite a few less cuts, the total toll payments go up next year. And today we were notified that the government parties are not making promises to start the Fornebubanen performance project during this big time period. The commitment of the right-hand party and the Progress Party to reduce capital requirements in the case of housing purchases has become an unobligatory letter to the Financial Supervisory Authority. 12 B.C.E. kr more to the hospitals in the election campaign has become a non-binding text in the platform. This shows a significant distance between what the two parties promised the voters before the election and what they actually do when they have the option. After eight years of opposition, we could have expected major changes and major upheavals. I am glad that much is going on, and glad that irresponsible promises are not being made, but it is still a problem that the voters have been promised many benefits they do not get. However, where changes are made, we see important choices that over time will lead Norway in the wrong direction in important areas. Firstly, our government reduced differences in Norway. While inequalities are increasing in many European countries, they have decreased in Norway since 2005. Strong driving forces are moving towards increasing differences – forces in the stock market, in the housing market, in the labour market. Therefore, active policies need to be pursued only to prevent disparities from increasing. The more serious it is that the budget the majority is now going to adopt, actively helping to reinforce the differences in our country. The Minister of Finance himself writes it in a letter to the Financial Committee: the budget increases inequality. Those who have a lot of things already get a lot. Those who have little or no things get little or no things. You have income of over 2 million. NOK, you get a cut in the tax of NOK 40000. But if you make less than 400,000 kroner and have no wealth, you're cut 50 cents a day. This is an unsocial profile - a step in the wrong direction. The government has announced that this step will be followed by several others. The school is to be privatized. Employee rights shall be impaired. The unemployed will have less pension. Self-esteem is increasing. All of this leads to increased differences. The Labour Party believes in a society of fair distribution, where all people have the same opportunities. A society with small differences is a society with less conflict and greater ability to lift in a flock. The second area where the direction is different is in family and gender policy. Our government stood for a modern, forward-looking family policy. We got full babysitting, babysitting got cheaper every year. We expanded the paperwork and proposed to take the first step towards more kindergarten admissions this year. The Right-Fremskritsparte-Registration stands for a policy that is immature. Kindergartens are getting more expensive. There'll be fewer kindergartens. They cut the papers and keep class 2. And they will extend the cash support to a whole new year's coal. It is set out in the Government Declaration. This is not new. The right hand party and the Progress Party have long been promoters of cash support. In its alternative budgets, the Right has repeatedly proposed making kindergartens more expensive. The new thing is that they get a majority in favour of this policy. This is also a policy which, with surgical precision, frameworks where integration is most vulnerable, namely in the participation of migrant women in work. We know that families with a migrant background receive a substantial part of the cash support. Two out of three persons in working age who were similar in tax class 2 have a spouse with a migrant background. This is why the previous government started the tax class 2 liquidation last year and continued this year. We have succeeded better than many other countries in getting people with immigrant backgrounds into work. With more expensive kindergartens, cash support and tax class 2, it is less profitable to work – especially for those on the edge of the labour market, where the option of receiving social benefits is low-paid jobs. The government is weakening with this line of work, thereby reducing the growth capacity of the Norwegian economy. These are poor equality policies, poor integration and poor economic policies – at the same time. Therefore, this is not a single step, but many steps in the wrong direction. The third area where we see differences is in the use of oil money. In the election campaign, Erna Solberg repeatedly warned against increased oil dependence. The first thing she does in government is to increase the use of oil money. Then we become more oil dependent, because it is the use of oil money – not revenue – that creates addiction. This is surprising by a party that claimed through the election campaign that seven out of ten oil crowns are being used incorrectly. Had it been right, it should have been a simple matter to use faulty oil money to pay for the tax cuts. Instead, the government increases the use of oil money at the first crossroads. Our government spent the big money on the big problems. While the total expenditure of the state increased by 20 pst, we increased the investment in research by 30 pst. and on a journey of more than 60 pst. – because we prioritised this highly. At the same time, we paid for increased expenditure on old-age pensions and made important contributions to health and care. It was the right use of oil money. What is really the wrong use of oil money is using it to increase differences, to more cash support, and to maintain tax class 2. Using money to make working less profitable is using the money incorrectly. It increases our oil dependence and makes the economy more vulnerable. The fourth area where we see important differences is in the climate field. The challenges are formidable. There is more need for a binding international agreement than ever before. But the Warsaw meeting has shown that the way forward is long, and it's going too slow. That means that as we negotiate, we must act. Norway has acted. Among other things, we have has been driving the world perhaps the most important single measures for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, namely to stop deforestation. We are involved in extensive work in Brazil and Indonesia. When the government proposed a large cut in the appropriations for this work, it is the wrong direction for the climate. Something's fixed up in the Storting, but not everything. Another area where we have got a lot is the emissions from the car park. For new cars, emissions have been reduced by almost 30 pst. We have done a lot by changing the fees and by making good use of electric cars. Such developments should continue. In the budget, the government proposed to weaken both of these areas. They removed the proposal to increase the charges on particularly polluting cars and cut them into measures for electric cars. The latter was corrected, but not the fees – not the green taxes. Carbon capture and storage are essential if we are to succeed in bringing down greenhouse gas emissions. In Mongstad, we have succeeded in building one of the world's largest test centers for this technology. This is future technology, it can contribute to great climate change. Here, too, the government cuts and weakens the climate effort. It is a pity for the climate and sin for Norwegian future technology. In important areas, the government breaks the promises they made to the voters during the election campaign. In other areas, they change policy — not much compared to what they promised, but in the wrong direction. That is the wrong direction because the budget adds up to a policy that makes working less profitable and thus weakens the growth power of the Norwegian economy. It is a budget for increasing disparities, less equality, increased oil dependence and weakened ambitions for the climate. This is serious in itself. More seriously, the government warns that this is just the beginning.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1266	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1269	The representative, Stoltenberg, says that the oil money that has been used incorrectly can be disposed of in another way. No, you can't do that when they're used for public consumption over a long time. The representative of Stoltenberg knows just as well as I do. What Stoltenberg has not talked about today is the economics barometer, which shows that it is now moving towards a bit more gloomy times in Norwegian business. Then it's important to invest for the future. It does our government in the budget that has been put forward, precisely to compensate for excessive costs that, in combination with weakened productivity growth, have made sure that we are no longer competitive. My question to the representative Stoltenberg is: Does he agree that prioritising investment for Norwegian business now – in tax reliefs, in knowledge, in transport – is a reasonable use of oil money?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1278	It is I, and therefore also the government I led, have committed to it: record-breaking investments in research, transport and many other sensible things – and also relief for businesses. But the most important investment for the future is to invest in work — make sure that people are in work, and not least to build bridges into the labour market for those who do not. There the government goes in the opposite direction of what you should do. The government makes it less profitable to work for those who are most vulnerable to the type of economic instruments, by both making the tax system less friendly for those who want to go to work with tax class 2, making kindergartens more expensive, and increasing cash support. The sum of that is that we make working less profitable and thus also weakens the future and growth of the Norwegian economy. What I'm most concerned about is the two-part division of the Norwegian economy. It contributes to more divisive and more vulnerable businesses to competition by increasing the use of oil money.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1287	The representative Stoltenberg has made a number of the increased differences as a result of our government's budget both in the exchange of lines and in his contribution today. What does the representative of Stoltenberg think is most important for increasing differences? Is this to be measured via tax statistics, or is it more important to ensure — through action — that more people come to work? Will he continue to measure the differences in his tax statistics that say that there are weak slopes in one direction, or is it more important to see that we get more jobs – in jobs in which it is invested because this government stimulates investment in Norwegian jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1294	I think we should measure income inequality with income statistics. That's the very best statistics. It shows that there will be increased income differences with the policies that this government adopts. The government itself has documented that. The differences don't increase that much in the first year, but the whole point is you say this is the beginning of something you're going to do more of. When the first step – documented by the government – contributes to increased disparities, there is all cause for concern. Of course, I fully agree that having a lot of people at work is absolutely essential. That is why we are proud that there have been 350,000 more people working under our government – 70 pst. of them in private enterprises. The main objective of competitiveness is whether companies are profitable and employing people. It makes Norwegian enterprises to a greater extent than enterprises in almost any other country. Then we have to keep on guard that things can go wrong. But that's not the answer, for example. to impose new costs on businesses by doubling the costs of permitting, increasing the use of oil money and starting to claw out the CO2 compensation scheme, which is very important for the competitive enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1308	As the representative Fleet was involved, new figures show that developments in the Norwegian economy are not as good as the red-green ones and claim it is. Unemployment has increased in recent years, growth has slowed down, and figures from the Ministry of Finance show that this has been happening for a long time – that productivity growth is developing weaker than wage growth. When this happens, it leads to weak competitiveness and unsafe jobs. It will eventually turn out as well. That's why, of course, it's important to fix it. My question to the representative Jens Stoltenberg is: Does the representative Stoltenberg agree that productivity has developed weaker than wage growth in the last eight years, or is this something that the Ministry of Finance has found?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1318	First briefly on the outlook for the Norwegian economy: I choose to rely on the estimates provided by the Ministry of Finance itself with the new government. First of all, they show an unchanged unemployment, so the picture that unemployment is now on the way up is not confirmed or documented in the government's own documents. And if the government parties suddenly have completely different estimates than those underlying the budget we are now discussing, you have to report it. You haven't reported it. The estimates also show that the growth is 2.5 pst. – from 2 pst. in 2013 – so there is no redundancy in the Norwegian economy, according to the government’s own up-to-date estimates in the additional proposition we are now considering. Things can, of course, change, and then we'll be on guard and act. But then it's not the answer to doubling the costs of permitting, cutting the CO2 compensation for the industry and creating uncertainty about it, or increasing the use of money. Increased use of money leads to increased costs, and it is the increased costs that make the Norwegian economy vulnerable. It was not least the previous government aware of this, and therefore the use of money was retained in relation to the current government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1328	I did not think I got a good answer to my question, but I also have another question that I would like to try to get an answer to. It goes without saying that the representative Stoltenberg has repeatedly warned against a civil government. In his May 1 speech he also warned against Siv Jensen becoming Minister of Finance. Both of these things would lead to urban chaos and major problems. So now we have the phase: we've got a civil government, and now Siv Jensen has also become finance minister. Then it might be interesting to the right from the representative Stoltenberg how his predictions went. Has it gone so bad as he feared, or has it perhaps gone a little less evil than what he preached in the election campaign?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1335	In some areas, it has been just as I feared. For example, there is a policy for increasing differences in Norway. That's not good. So it's clear that it's not as bad as it would have been if the Progress Party had done exactly what they said they should do. For example, had they spent 100 billion dollars? To remove the bombs in Norway, as they promised to all Norwegian voters, there had been a bad deal in the Norwegian economy, as they had spent too much money. So because they're breaking the promises, it's not that bad. There can be no goal of running a campaign on one thing, and of doing something completely different. But I'm glad they're breaking promises of irresponsible use of money. It's a problem for the Progress Party, because they don't keep promises, it's a problem for all the voters who believed in them, because they don't keep promises, but it's an advantage for the Norwegian economy that the Progress Party does the opposite of what they said.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1342	It was a bit of a criticism of the cash support. It is a little special when we know that Stoltenberg itself is running a government that increases the cash support for them between 13 and 18 months. And in the setting of today's case, they boast red-green parties that this worked according to purpose. So we can sum it up so that Stoltenberg sees this in the way that when the red-green increase in cash support, it's good, but when the non-socialist parties do the same thing, it's crazy. I want to give Stoltenberg the opportunity to be positive on a matter. His government reduced the tax rate on general income from 28 to 27 p.m. only for companies. Now, Finance Minister Siv Jensen has reduced that rate both for companies and for individuals. Different bets invite for customization and are not a good solution. Does the representative Stoltenberg agree with me that it has been a wise move from Siv Jensen?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1351	First to the cash support: we were busy doing things in the right order. We were busy building out full kindergarten coverage, and we made sure of that. We then removed the cash support, so that it was only limited to one-year-olds. For 1-year-olds, it's not full babysitting, because we don't have continuous admission. That's why we thought it was safe to keep it there. So the new government has both increased the system and in addition announced that new coal will enter it, and I warn against that, just as I have always warned against a scheme that helps to make working less profitable, prevents integration and weakens the growth power of the Norwegian economy. There is the result when fewer people are going to work – which is well documented as a result of expensive kindergartens and increased cash support for new adolescence. In terms of taxes, it's absolutely right that we cut down on corporate taxes. We said we had to deal with the sharing problem we had then, either by introducing some form of sharing – which we have had in the past in the Norwegian tax system – or by having different rates. We thought it was completely possible to live with 1 pst. Difference in rates until we got the setting from the Scheel Committee and could therefore choose one of two solutions – either equal rate or split. How it should be solved, we thought we could handle it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1360	Jens Stoltenberg is in a position where you start discussing political heritage. Fortunately, this legacy is no longer subject to a charge, but we are now a country experiencing a barometer that shows that you have dark clouds in front of you. We have had low productivity growth in the last part of the lifetime of the previous government; we have a very high cost level in Norway – where many driving forces contribute to it getting worse – we have a huge maintenance run, especially on important infrastructures such as: railway, and we have an economy that is very dependent on the production of one type of raw material, a commodity that we don't know will last forever. Does the Labour Party representative think that we are well equipped for the future after the government period he has had power?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1367	I can hardly imagine another country in the world that is better rusted. The OECD has gone through all OECD countries, and we got out very well there. So it is not that it has gone well until today, there is some guarantee that it is going well in the continuation. We have to be careful, keep track of and adjust the instruments as the terrain changes. Also in the government's additional proposal, new estimates have been made for next year's development. They show a good development next year, with still low — almost unchanged — unemployment, and actually slightly higher growth in the Norwegian economy except for oil. It's quite possible that next year you'll be fine if you don't do things wrong. What is alarming is the high level of costs and oil dependence. But it is increasing with this government and the budget for which the Left is now voting, because the use of oil money is increasing. Targeted action has been taken against the competitive enterprises: doubling the costs of permitting; reducing the supply of work by making it more unprofitable to work for those with the lowest incomes; and notifying a serious cut in the CO2 compensation scheme. There are measures that increase the vulnerability of the Norwegian economy and that I strongly warn against.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1379	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1382	On 9 September the voters gave four parties on the bourgeois side an historically strong majority, a majority Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left before the elections were promised to give the country a new government. The voters wanted new solutions to the challenges we are facing. The parties agreed earlier in the harvest that the majority should be managed jointly in the Grand Duchy. The consensus is reflected in an agreement with a common value base and common policy fields and positions. The Cooperation Parties Right, Advance Party, Christian People's Party and Left concluded a historic agreement, and in line with this agreement, the four parties have now concluded a settlement on the budget for 2014. The evening post wrote on September 13th that Right inherits a Norway in the headwind. Increasing unemployment, weaker demand growth, higher price growth and faster interest rates were highlighted. The conclusion was that the Right-Fremskritsparte government inherits a lower-speed economy. Growth in the Norwegian economy has slowed down, and growth estimates for this year have been reduced. Today, per capita, we do not create greater values in the mainland economy than we did before the financial crisis. On the positive side, there is evidence that growth in Europe can rise, which will be good for the Norwegian economy. However, the overtime lack of innovation and research activity can help to weaken Norway’s competitiveness. The two-way distribution in the Norwegian economy is of concern. The part of the economy that is not oil-related but actually also parts of the oil-related industry shows signs of problems. These developments, described in the Evening Post on 13 September, are underlined by the NHO’s business survey presented today. While it looks a little brighter for Europe, Norwegian business leaders are dampening expectations for next year. The domestic expectations of NHO companies are the weakest since the financial crisis, despite the fact that weaker krones have improved the situation for export companies. The 2014 assessments are clearly more negative than in the third quarter, showing new figures from the Economy Survey. At the same time, the main forecasts for the euro area show that growth is expected to increase in the fourth quarter of this year and continue into 2014. For this reason, it has been important for the government to provide a budget that helps to create better conditions for business development and value creation, while at the same time focusing on the most important — school, culture and health. The right went to the elections to give Norway a civil government with new ideas and better solutions, and the voters showed us confidence. Although the government has only had a few weeks to work on a government budget that the red-greens had spent nearly a year preparing, we have managed to make changes in important areas, which show a clear direction. We have in government followed up our election promises by investing in the areas in which we promised the voters to bet. We promised to create safe jobs. We follow that up in the budget by proposing tax incentives that make it more profitable to invest in Norwegian jobs and by investing in innovation and increased research efforts. We give priority to this because a safe job to go to means a lot to the individual, and because Norway needs more legs to stand on financially in the future. We also strengthen competitiveness, both in the short and long term. We promised to invest in more knowledge in school, and first of all we promised a real commitment to the teachers. This is followed up in the budget by a sharp increase in the number of teachers to be trained. This is an important priority, because the teachers are the ones that matter most to students' learning. Knowledge is important for the future of Norway and creates opportunities for individuals. We promised to bet on quality and freedom of choice in healthcare. We need to introduce free treatment options, and we will start next year using the free capacity of private individuals to bring down health cows. Our solutions can contribute to less waiting time and less uncertainty, which means a lot to people waiting for treatment. We also strengthen the offer of patients in the field of drugs and psychiatry, just as we promised in the election campaign. We promised to speed up the development of roads and collective services, and the appropriations are increasing marked by the budget that is now being adopted in the Stortinget, compared to the red-green scheme. Good transport solutions reduce costs and increase competitiveness, reduce travel time, simplify everyday life and increase safety. There has been a theme here now that the Minister of Transport has said that he cannot promise to get the Fornebuban started before 2018. Solvik-Olsen says to Budstikka: ‘I’m going to work to get the development going before 2018, but I can’t promise it now. We are working to get an overview of the matters in the department we have taken over, and look at the possibilities of starting closer in time than planned." It's a clear promise to do what's possible to get this construction going, but this blows up the opposition and the Workers' Party and calls it a new level break. I would rather say that this takes the rhetoric about lifting break to new heights.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1415	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1418	The representative of Greece said in his speech that the Right has followed up its election vows. I guess that's a truth with modifications. The most striking thing about today is the great distance between all the election vows with which the Right came, and the budget under consideration. One of the many things that the Right promised in the election campaign was running kindergarten. This was produced as well as perceived as somewhat larger and finer than our investment in two annual nursery receptions. That's why probably the disappointment was very great in many people when the supplementary proposition came and the escalation to two kindergarten admissions this year was gone, and I also noticed that the Prime Minister was very unclear about this today. Because in the spontaneous question hour two weeks ago, the municipal minister actually withdrew this election campaign pledge and said that it was up to the municipalities to decide whether or not it was going to be a continuous admission. Then my question is: why is it more important for the Right to fulfill the election vows of the richest people in the country, with tax cuts, than the promises that were clearly given to the children's families in the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1424	We haven't gone off any election vows. We have sat down and negotiated a government platform, and that government platform is called the Sundvolden Declaration. I seem to remember that the Workers' Party had two laps on Soria Moria where they negotiated their government platform, and as far as I know, it wasn't all the program posts that were in the Workers' Party's program that went on in Soria Moria I and II. So I think this rhetoric, about the breach of promises, from the Workers' Party is getting quite hollow, when one knows that they themselves have managed a government for eight years and have rightly had great influence and dominated, but nevertheless not fully implemented for their policies. Right-wing children’s gardening, and it is true that in very many municipalities – very many of them right-hand-driven – children are admitted to kindergarten when there is no capacity. That's a good solution. It's less rigid than having two recordings a year. The right has always said that having flexibility and being able to use the capacity of kindergartens is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1433	Wants the representative Pedersen line no. Two?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1436	Yes, President. It was very interesting to listen to the representative of Greece now, because I think the voters are not primarily interested in how the Right Party and the Advance Party follow up what was promised to each other at Sundvolden, after the election. I think the voters, and not least the opposition in Stortinget, are concerned to know how to follow up all the offensive elections you gave before the elections, and that is what today's government is going to measure. It wasn't just on the day-to-day babysitting that a lot was promised – it was also Fornebubane, it was massive tax cuts, and it was in many other areas of society. Now we see that the Right has promised more than you can follow up when the budget is being dealt with, and therefore my follow-up question is – when the Right has promised more than you could keep: Is it that the old calculator part Right has miscalculated, or have you led the voters behind the light?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1445	I said in my post that the Workers' Party takes the rhetoric about election vows to a new and higher level, and that seems to me to be underlined by the reply to Helga Pedersen. The government has been sitting for six weeks. We've made big changes. On the one hand, the Labour Party says that there are only slight changes, and on the other hand, they say that there are major and dramatic changes that increase the differences among people. Then the Workers' Party will have to decide soon. It seems that the main concern of the Labour Party now is how the Right-wing voters will react to the fact that the Right-Fremskritsparte government has launched its project, got the Left and Christian People's Party together and agreed on a budgetary settlement. In the last measurement I saw, the Right went pretty well and turned all the way up over the 30s – that is, the same size as the Workers' Party. So the rhetoric Helga Pedersen uses doesn't work at all, and I'm not worried about the voter's judgment. They'll evaluate the results we get, and they'll be good.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1454	On the right was one of the few parties in this election campaign that didn't promise kindergarten admissions, but they have said that they want a more flexible childcare admission. I think the voters are impatient, because they've seen a red-green government that's been sitting for eight years, and that's had multiples, but they haven't done a more flexible babysitting. My question is, what time does Right see that we get a greater flexibility, a more rolling babysitting? I think the voters are very concerned about that. There are many people who have children who are one year old, who want a nursery place, and who in the worst case have to wait for one year. After eight years of red-green rule where nothing has happened, can the representative of Greece promise that something will happen in the next few years?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1461	Something happens all the time, and it often happens in municipalities where the Christian People's Party and the Right have a majority. It facilitates continuous admission into kindergartens, where capacity is utilized, where there is room to start in kindergarten when the child reaches the age of one year, and that's very good. How this will be handled further in the different departments, I won't answer it now, but it's clear that giving an incentive to take advantage of this system is even better among the things we need to discuss. Then I am also very happy that we have strengthened the cash support, and that we stuck to the electoral reforms that the Right and Christian People's Party has been working together for many years. After all, it was presented from the less constructive opposition here in the Chamber as if everything is now almost raging because tax class 2 – which has been there for all years – is partially passed on, and because the cash support is continued. These are things that the red-green government talked about for eight years and didn't do anything with – fortunately. We need to strengthen the good electoral systems.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1468	In 2011, the Financial Supervisory Authority raised the capital requirement for the purchase of the dwelling from 10 p.m. to 15 pst. As responsible for housing policy in the red-green government, I met many questions about this in this room. The FSA considered that the price growth of housing and household debt was a threat to the economy, thus setting the requirement. At the end of August, the current government parties and their cooperation parties announced that the requirement would be reversed. The Party of Progress has requested to remove the claim completely. Right, Christian People's Party and Left will reverse the claim to 10 pst. My simple question is, why has the government not done this? This is not about budgetary balance. This is not about heavy processes. This is about a letter, where one could simply do what was so easy to do at the end of August.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1477	There is no doubt that this government has believed that the equity requirement of 15 p.m. has been problematic. The Minister of Finance has also mentioned that. But one of the things we've done, and as the red-greens had the full opportunity to do something about when they squandered youth on the housing market by increasing the equity requirement, was to increase the limits of housing savings for young people. They have now expanded, from 150 000 kroner to 200000 kroner. This means that young people entering the housing market who are looking for a relatively reasonable apartment now have at least a certain chance – through the BSU – to meet the equity requirement being imposed. It should, in my opinion, be a flexible practice of the equity requirement, and then we get back to how this should be resolved. Neighbors' seats had eight years to change Norway, and there was not much positive happening. Now we've been on for six weeks, and it's happened very much positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1488	The representative of Greece referred to the cooperation agreement, and the cooperation agreement between the Left, the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Progressive Party has an offensive environmental policy as the starting point for both climate policy and public transport. When the government presented its proposal to the government budget, however, it was, in my opinion, a poor environmental budget, with the reversal of the minimal green tax shift that was in the red-green government's proposal for the state budget, and with great reductions also in the classical nature protection. In the consensus that the four parties now have again, there is a good environmental budget, with a commitment on the railway of 750 million. kr and the removal of VAT on the leasing of electric cars and battery packs. Transnova gets an increase instead of cut. There is also an increase in several areas of classical nature protection and an increase in fuel oil charges. Then I wonder what is really Right Environmental Policy. Is it following the offensive effort in the Memorandum of Cooperation, or is it continuing to follow the direction referred to in the Government's draft budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1499	It is, of course, to follow up on what is in the cooperation agreement. We could not get everything in place during the very short time the government had to process the budget, and I am very pleased with the changes that have now been agreed in an agreement on a budgetary settlement with the Christian People's Party and the Left. There are a lot of things in public transport, bet on classical nature protection, etc. that the Right is concerned about, and that we want to give priority to, and that the Government will certainly give priority to. The left has chosen to stand outside the government and entered into a cooperation agreement. If the Left had chosen to go in, it is clear that their stamp on environmental policy would be even clearer. There is no doubt that the Left is the main driver of some of these environmental issues that have now entered into the agreement. I am pleased with the balance that is then being created, by the fact that the Left is also given the opportunity to express policy through the comparisons made in the Stortinget. But the greatest influence is within the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1506	I asked the Prime Minister a question about ongoing child care admissions instead, which the Prime Minister chose to answer by talking about a number of other issues. I therefore feel a need to repeat the question of what the Right puts in ‘running nursery reception’. It has been presented throughout the campaign and in large parts of the previous period as a more ambitious goal than the two recordings of the year for which the red-green parties have joined. After what the representative of Greece now said, I understand more that the government wants the municipalities to continue the practice that most people have, that they bring up a child when they have available capacity. It should also be lacking, and there is something very different than an offensive reform for the kindergarten sector. Every time the Right gets power over the kindergartens, the development of the sector stops. Can the representative of Greece now confirm that there is a so-called ongoing nursery reception that is less ambitious than the two admissions of the year proposed by our government?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1516	I can't, because children get picked up when there's free space in kindergartens, I guess they have to be better than that there's admission twice a year. It's turning everything upside down and saying that the systems are most important. Saying that two admissions per year are more important than the fact that the children are continually being admitted to kindergarten, is not a matter of intervention. I don't understand what rhetoric the red-greens have lulled into here. There is no doubt that we want full child care. We want children who need kindergarten to have it, and then it's important to find flexible and good arrangements to do this. Very many municipalities are doing this today. They make use of their available capacity and ensure that there is continuous admission of kindergarten children. It has to be better than creating a red-green bureaucratic system that has no other effect than standing here and saying that it is more ambitious than other schemes. The important thing is that children are given a kindergarten and that their parents take good care of their children. We'll do that, and we'll continue to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1525	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1528	When the voters went to the polls in September this year, a new policy course was chosen. All four bourgeois parties went to elections – it is an election vow that all parties have held – that if there were a civil majority, there would also be a change of government. I understand very well that the second part of the opposition, which does not include the Christian People's Party and the Left, is very dissatisfied that exactly what the election vow was fulfilled. It was the most important election vow, and it can probably even the Workers' Party accept that has been fulfilled after all the sunmarks. The budget we are now dealing with responds well to many of the challenges we see in Norwegian business. From 2005 until now, we have seen a lower growth in productivity compared to real wage growth. It's a reality we have to take over, and then we have to look at what kind of instruments we're going to use to counteract this. Then there is the big question: is it the state that is going to enter and regulate each activity, or is the state going into and setting things right, so that the enterprises themselves can develop further? I dare to dare the claim that the business itself and the companies themselves necessarily know their business better than the central authorities do. That is why, as the government has done, it is important to improve the tax FUNN scheme and the BIA system, so that innovation in Norwegian business can be increased so that we can meet the challenges facing each company. This is when enterprises can put measures in place in the simplest and most effective way to be competitive in the future. I have heard a number of comments here, from both the representative Gahr Støre and the representative Stoltenberg, criticizing that not all of their election promises have been met. I'll try to mention some things in that context. Both government parties promised in the election campaign more funding for the road and the track. Yes, I want to express myself in a way that the previous government did: yes, we haven't just fulfilled this. We have already overfilled it in our first budget – as is customary to say in some contexts – because it has become more for both county roads, operation and maintenance. It's become more to the railway, so we can transport the large masses into their workplaces. We made the choice that we would do something with the inheritance fee. We promised the voters, and, yes, we have fulfilled. We will remove the inheritance fee from next year. It's fulfilled, just like we promised the voters. Both parties decided that we would do something about the property tax. Then you must not be surprised in this room that we have done something about the property tax. We even promised that we would invest more in school and education. Yes, this draft budget increases the appropriations for the school sector in order to provide better education, better teachers, which will just be what can help to make those who are soon adults and are going to be out of work a competent workforce. We promised increased security for life and health. This can be found again in the budget under consideration. There's more to be given to the police. There's more to the courts. Yes, we've made sure to fulfill those choices as well. The previous government also left us another type of inheritance, i.e. approx. 270 000 people in health queues. Then we said, "We have to do something to get the number of treatments in the healthcare system up." Yeah, the government's delivering. There'll be more to treatment. There's more to people who have toil, and to psychiatry. Yeah, the government's delivering. In the field after field, the government has fulfilled its election promises. This is after a few months. This government has plans to sit for a long time, and in that period it will also have to fulfill even more of what the voters have promised. Some things take a little longer, but this government is going to deliver.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1549	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1552	One could be tempted to question all the lifting breaks that the representative Nesvik now actually chooses not to mention, but I will refrain, because I think the Right Party and the Advance Party this autumn have shown us what spinal reflexes lie in blue-blue cooperation. What we saw when the additional proposition from the government of Solberg was presented was dramatic cut in aid. It was a dramatic cut for the industry. There was a big cut in the climate effort, and a disappointment with oil money to meet your own tax promises. My question to the representative Nesvik is this: is the representative satisfied with the initial budgetary priority that the government took on in the supplementary proposal, and is that what we can expect in the subsequent government budgets as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1559	The undersigned is very pleased with the sitting government, because we are now getting a new course. We have a government that has actually said that it should ensure that there is a balance between real wage growth and productivity growth. We have a government that has said that we need to invest in innovation in order to create more jobs that are competitive in the future. We have a government that, like everybody else, is feeding. We're giving priority. In addition, we will ensure that the individual himself retains more of his own income — not the income of the state, which the representative of Aasland tends to talk about. It is the taxpayers who will be allowed to be left with a little more of their own income to housekeepers with their own money, and that can't be so awfully wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1564	I note that the Storting must expect a significant cut in aid, cut in industry, cut in climate, and not least that a disappointment with further use of oil money to fulfill promises. But a theme that was particularly prominent when the supplementary proposal was presented on Friday, November 8, was the dark cloud that crossed the Norwegian industry. There were strong reactions that the government chose to change the compensation scheme and introduce a floor of NOK 30. Fortunately, it has now been converted, and it is the proposal of the government of Stoltenberg that underpins what is being adopted today. But I think it would be good to know – since the representative Nesvik says that it is the companies themselves who know best what needs they have, and in the light of what we experienced that day – whether the representative agrees that there was a complete lack of understanding of the needs of the industry that caused it to be cut so dramatically in the compensation system, and that it underlines that the needs of an unknown company?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1569	I just have to tell the representative of Aasland that it is no longer the Workers' Party and Stoltenberg who are in power in Norway, and therefore it is not Stoltenberg's proposal for this CO2 scheme that is being adopted today, but in fact the negotiated agreement between the Right Party and the Left Party and the Christian People's Party. It is no longer the case that the Workers' Party's decision is being implemented. What is important is the negotiations to be held. You have to make sure to create a majority. What lies here is a good budget for industry in very many areas, as opposed to the budgets of the government that has now left, which has led to a lower productivity growth than the growth in real wages, which has damaged Norwegian competitiveness and the potential for new growth and jobs for the sector. Yeah, it was time for a shift.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1579	The Christian People's Party is pleased that the government follows up on what is clearly stated in the cooperation agreement, that a tax deduction is to be introduced forinvestments in the home. So you have to make it more profitable to choose green solutions. This has created expectations both for manufacturers and for those who want to make use of these solutions, and many have now sat on the fence and are waiting for a date of implementation. Can the representative, Nesvik, say when such a tax deduction for an additional measure will come at home?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1586	Now I am not in the government, so I think we should let the government present this matter, where you look at what kind of measures and what device this will get, and then you get back to it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1591	The red-green government had in its budget proposal a proposal to raise the heir fee to 1 million. kr. The Right Party and the Progress Party have, in cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left, removed the inheritance fee. It's isolated well, especially for those who have a lot of inheritance — large sums, large property rights — but it's a group that has to pay that value, and it's for individuals. It applies to taxi owners, it applies to owners of construction machinery, it applies to approx. 200000 small enterprises — individual staff ceilings — according to the Confederation of Enterprises. The government clearly did not know what it decided, for one should now have a statement after the consequences of its own decision. Is this the new industrial policy which the Progress Party, with the finance minister at the head, will lead the coming years? And is it strange, then, that it is pessimism to trace in business?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1599	It is probably the farmers' representative Navarsete is most concerned about this matter. Then we can, among other things: look at the special scheme in place, namely that at each acquisition it will be possible to record its entry values within the means available. So the question is, how many times are you going to be able to write this? The government and the government have actually taken seriously that some people have made recordings. This should be looked at and brought back with a review of the revised State budget for 2014. We are then looking forward to the representative Mr Navarsete voting for the proposal that lies here for voting, and we shall have the pleasure of doing so – please.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1606	The NHO’s last quarter economic survey reports concerns about developments in the Norwegian economy. This is affected by many in the debate so far today, and I thank the representative Nesvik for some good answers to the challenges we are facing. The left has definitely been, and is, concerned that Norway should not lean too heavily on oil and gas, but bet heavily on other industries as well. In its own budget, the left has pointed to some even better responses than the government has in terms of investing in other sectors of business: measures in, among others. attention is given to fisheries, tourism and agriculture, increased investment in industrial research, regional development and not least the first line of business. Are these things that the representative of Nesvik and the Progress Party agree with? How, then, will it be followed up?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1613	I want to praise the Left for a number of good proposals and measures. I have been working with the Left for the last four years, among others. in the context of simplification proposals in the Business Committee. There's a lot of work to do here. I also know that the government is working in several departments on simplification of legislation, reporting, etc., which is very important, especially for small entrepreneurs. Tax FUNN and the BIA are also very important to move forward. I am very pleased to be able to continue working with both the Left and the Christian People's Party in the years to come, on many good measures to boost Norwegian business life, measures for new economic growth, where we can increase productivity, in relation to real wage growth – just in order to be competitive in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1618	When I hear the representative Nesvik, we like to find ourselves in an alternative blue reality where there are most people who are left with the most in the budget of the Progress Party, but I am more to deal with the real reality that lies in the position of the Financial Committee. There it is, first of all, 40 pst. of the taxes payable to the Party of Advancement to 4 pst. by the population, and the few hundreds of common people with common income sheep, are eaten by cutting in dental health, more expensive kindergartens, cut in the cultural school, cut in child care, cut in the father's quota, etc. Moreover, the SV, the Central Party and the Workers' Party in their budgets are increasing the bottom line of ordinary income more than what the Advance Party is doing, and we are going to do that without spending oil money. So my question to the representative Nesvik is, can he say with his hand on his heart that he sincerely believes that most people are left with more in the wallet with the budget of the Progress Party than with SVs?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1623	The answer to that: Yes – simply because in this budget we have a fixed line of work. The biggest growth will actually be achieved by offering as much as possible work and work, by providing people with help when they are ill and by providing more treatment in the field of drugs and psychiatry. We ensure businesses through increased innovation power. We'll make sure you get better solutions in place. You get to keep more of your own income. Not least, we keep SV out of government offices, and it's also a good start.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1628	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1631	I would like to start by thanking the Cooperation Party Left, the Advance Party and the Right for having reached such a good agreement on next year's government budget. We might sum up by saying that during four budget days here in the Grand Duchy, the Christian People's Party has had a greater impact than we had in the budget work over eight red-green years. It has been moved on billions, and important leaders, seen from the Christian People's Party side, were also taken care of already when the Solberg government laid out its budget. Then I am thinking about important investments in rushes, psychiatry bets, knowledge bets and research bets. The cooperation agreement here in Stortinget also strengthens several of these areas. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to give the state budget a good social profile both nationally and internationally, as well as to provide better solutions for family members. And we can sum up by saying, "That's what we've closed with." Cash support is now being increased to NOK 6000 per month for 1-year-olds. It helps to give choice and flexibility. It was a little special to the right representative Stoltenberg to criticise this very grip in order to be a surgical grip to weaken integration. First of all, it's like this is about one-year-olds in the family of children. I also believe that when we look at the challenges we have with, among other things. Immigrants must be brought into the labour market, we must look at a far wider use of tools, rather than believe that a cut in cash is helping to send so many immigrant women back to work. Unfortunately, it is not something that will be closed with such a simple tool use. The social profile has also been strengthened. A cut that was included in the budget proposal of the Stoltenberg government, where people in need of care were framed, is now set up – the 214 million. Fortunately, it is now in place that kr was cut off from the concession to the municipal resource-requiring services. One important goal of the Christian People's Party was to do something about the proposal to remove tax class 2. That would mean a significant tax consolidation for 140,000 couples. We have ensured that a safe tax class – but just at a lower deduction rate – saves us families with lower incomes for a large tax return. We've also improved the one-time payroll. We have also gained more on a voluntary basis by increasing the tax deduction for donations to voluntary organisations from NOK 12 000 to NOK 16 800. This will stimulate higher incomes for those who pursue voluntary and non-profit activities. Nevertheless, the most important saying of the Christian People's Party is that through this budget agreement we ensure that 1 pst. assistance of gross national income. In the situation that arose after the change of government, the Christian People's Party has given priority to securing the 1 pst goal and getting an impact on some course changes in development policy. Just today is a historic day: Never before has it been like this – that a gathering magnificence will vote for 1 pst. of GNI for assistance. Then it's a little interesting to look at some newspaper headlines from this summer, among other things, where the representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum said it would be almost impossible for the Christian People's Party to get the aid up to 1 pst. He also added that it would be impossible for the Christian People's Party to establish a responsible alcohol policy in cooperation with the Progress Party. Today, we can record that the Progress Party and the Right in the government are increasing the alcohol tax more than what the government of the Battle Violence Vedum itself was part of, presented in its draft budget. There has also been a clever tactic on the part of the Labour Party: first they used the election campaign to scare. When this fear doesn't vote, they mean there's a breach of promise from the Right and the Advance Party. I think we can sum up the way Forest Lund said it – we are very happy with the budget we see. This is a budget for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1644	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1647	Let me first give tribute to the Christian People's Party and Hareide for having got in place still bet on assistance, and that 1 pst. GNI shall provide assistance. It has been important that the Christian People's Party has helped to reverse some of the worst outbursts of the unsocial cuts proposed by the government, so all credit for it. I remember that after the government soundings Hareide was very clear that there were certain areas where there was so much distance between the government parties and the Christian People's Party that it would be impossible for the Christian People's Party to sit in a binding government cooperation. We received the confirmation of this, among other things. through the proposal for a cut in aid. It might be tempting to think that the government put in these cuts because it knew that the Christian People's Party would put everything in to increase the aid budget and therefore be less demanding in other areas. In that case, it's a pretty unworthy performance, and my question is, Has the Christian People's Party got an agreement that makes a freer such rematches in the future? And did Hareide want to sit in government more or less when he saw what the government proposed in the aid field?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1654	I thought it was important to de-dramatize the cut that was on the part of the government of Solberg. When they presented their aid budget, it was 0.985 p.m. The aid budget presented by the government of Stoltenberg was 0.995 p.m. So we're talking about decimals here. However, I am very happy that we have secured 1 pst. for assistance. I believe that when we work internationally, which is just assistance, it is also important that we send a signal to other countries. When it comes to aid policy and development policy, it not only helps what Norway is doing, but also what other countries are doing and doing. When Børge Brende travels around the world, he can say that Norway delivers 1 pst. in assistance. It helps to raise expectations in other countries and increases the overall effort. That's what's important.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1661	Thanks for the answer. I have to say, when Hareide is talking about decimals, it's far from this that's really talking about. There were proposals for cuts in the World Food Programme and proposals for cuts in the United Nations Development Fund. For those involved, it would be very dramatic if the government's proposal had been through the Großing. That's why I love the Christian People's Party's contribution to the reversal of these cuts. Since the Christian People's Party has been involved in the establishment of this government, they are also responsible for the economic policy of this government – and for a policy that will increase the diversity of society. Several people in this room — including the Prime Minister in her reply to Stoltenberg — have confirmed that there is a new direction and that there will be greater differences. Another thing is that the government will cancel weekend peace on Sundays through Sunday open shops, but introduce weekend peace on Saturdays by not handing out mail. Are increased differences, cut in the allocations of districts and Sunday shopping a development that Hareide will support, or will the Christian People's Party be a guarantor of such development?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1671	When we talk about major differences, one of the most unsocial cuts we had to fix was from Stoltenberg II. I'll call it double non-social when it's they're heavily nurturing in Norwegian municipalities it's debt. Here the Left and Christian parties had to straighten out a cut. Without the efforts of the Left and the Christian People's Party, traffic would have been damaged – nurturing – under 67 years of age. When it comes to Sunday trade, I look very optimistic about winning that cause. It's not just the Christian People's Party, the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party that I mean. We see that LO and NHO have engaged in this matter. We know that it has a significant cost to introduce Sunday trade. Therefore, I have great faith that when this matter comes up, the government will have a good assessment of it. Then I have every reason to believe that we have the opportunity to win things.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1678	Politics is a battle for value. I mean exactly the same thing as this summer: the party that stands most valuablely from the Christian People's Party on very many questions is the Progress Party – in aid policy, in alcohol policy, in the view of life and in the view of everyday life and holidays. Unfortunately, Mr Hareide has chosen to be a member of the Government's Advance Party. I'm going to admit that the Christian People's Party with the budget agreement managed to stop some of the worst cuts from the government. I think it was good that they managed to reverse some of it. It was wise and right that they were able to do so when it came to aid and alcohol. But I don't think it was wise and right that they couldn't do it when it comes to quota refugees – that the Christian People's Party in its first budgetary settlement with the government fails those who need help the most. I don't think it was wise what they did when it came to agriculture. It reversed the $30 million. kr – that was good – but still there was a cut of 70 million. kr. My question to the representative Hareide is: Is he satisfied with the impact in these two areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1687	The Christian People's Party is well pleased with its breakthrough. If we look at the priority of the world's poor, we see that we've managed to keep to the 1 pst goal. It gives some leads forward, and I think that's very important. If we had gone away from the 1 pst goal, we wouldn't have a grip on our development policy. As I said in my contribution, the most important thing for the Christian People's Party in this budget debate is to secure the 1 pst goal. When it comes to alcohol, I can only record that we have increased the fees more than the Stoltenberg government did. When it comes to quota refugees, there's no reason to hide that we would have liked to see that the number that was from the Stoltenberg government had been passed on. This is something that we will be able to come back to during the treatment of the revised national budget. We also see an increase in the number of quota refugees in 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1696	The Christian People's Party has, over all years, had very good spinal reflexes in terms of distribution – the poorest will get first. That's why I'm worried when the Christian People's Party argues so strongly for a tax arrangement that gives the most to the richest. I am even more concerned when one argues so positively for one of the worst cuts in this budget, namely that fewer refugees from Syria should be accepted. Syria has the greatest humanitarian disaster in the world – at least before the disaster in the Philippines, and there is no war – and some of the most disadvantaged people. The Christian People's Party thinks it's okay that we help fewer of them. On the other hand, they have fought for electronic data processing in the Church. What choice is there to give priority to EDB in relation to quota refugees?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1705	The Christian People's Party has said publicly that we would like to have received more quota refugees. We have a clear understanding that it has our policy. We have not argued for the so-called cut. But when we look at the number of quota refugees that we will receive in 2014, we see that it could be an increase when we compare with the number in 2013. We've been very clear -- we have a different primary position. We want Norway to accept more quota refugees, but we have made our priorities. What we got through in the conversations with the other three parties, we're happy with. We have got a stake on the world's poor by ensuring some of the most unsocial cuts – among others. from the Stoltenberg government to the resource-required users in the municipalities. We have also helped to improve the situation for asylum seekers. That's when we say we're basically happy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1712	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1715	Over eight years in government, the Center Party has been in favour of a Norway of small differences, where we share social goods. We've been in charge of a long-term administration and of using Norway as a whole. We have worked hard for self-determination and to use natural resources throughout the country. We have a fight for food production in the districts and industrial workplaces in the cities. We've arranged for people to choose to live in the whole country. We're a People's Party. And we've been working for a strong UN, to solve global challenges together. It has also been reflected in the budgets presented by the red-green government. The budget presented by the new government, in cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left, is a taste of the changes we are awaiting. There are many features, both in the budget of the new government and in their actions, that annoy me. Basically, it's about two questions: What do we want from Norway? What do we want Norway to be? To take the last one first, the centre party will still fight because Norway is a country that stands up for its own interests. At the same time, we must take responsibility for helping to lift the world's poor out of poverty and make us feel that economic growth is happening in a less polluting way than our economic growth has done. Where, in the red-green government, we are fighting for Norway's interests in the EU, with both against, straight back and clear anchoring in the Stortinget region, the new government is using the first opportunity to travel to Brussels to get EU help to go against both large-scale decisions and Norwegian interests. There are new tactics in foreign policy when it comes to both content and process. I can mention change the percentage of customs duties, the reversal of the Postal Directive, and at the latest today, we heard that the Banking Guarantee Directive could fall – at least it could sound like that in the media, but there is nothing we have heard about, except through the media. Where the red-green government has stood clearly on 1 pst. for aid and a strong commitment to renewable energy also above the external budget, the Progress Party and the Right have forced the Christian People's Party and the Left to use all their negotiating cards to win the return principle of minimum 1 pst. for assistance. It's a thin saying when we know that the red-green budget promises more. The new foreign minister has just enough boasted from the Stockholm Chair that their draft budgets provide a higher amount of assistance than the last year's budget. It's a truth about modifications. It must be difficult for the Christian People's Party to swallow a saying that when Norway feels more, we shall share less of our wealth with the world's poor. We shall give less to the UN organisations, we shall give less to renewable energy, and we shall give priority to the quota refugees in order to find room for Syrian refugees, rather than to receive people who desperately need protection. The budget proposal from the new government also shows a change in price when it concerns what Norway we want. The budget agreement presented frameworks the Norwegian districts and the goods-producing industry. In the agreement, regional development measures for municipalities and local businesses are still dramatically curtailed. There are less possibilities for people with good ideas to realize these into thriving businesses. Changes in the tax regime will increase differences between the common people and the richest. The changes in the inheritance fee result in poorer individual depreciation legislation. There will be increasing differences between those who live in the most populous areas and those who live in smaller places around the country. That the forwarding party in the agreement accepts cut to what was originally provided by the bet to the road and tunnels of a total of 250 million. kr, is unintelligible, not only on the basis of the Progress Party's promises of road travel, but also seen in the light of the serious challenges we face in tunnel maintenance and with the recent openings fresh in memory. The fact that agriculture and fisheries are hard hit by cuts and tax sharps is more than expected by a dark blue government. This is the first budget the government has seen its stamp on. Next year we'll get a state budget that's blue. What we have seen today is a confirmation that the Christian People's Party and the Left have little influence. Most of their forces are used to draw their government's arrangement a little closer to the red-green starting point. There is little reason for optimism for all those who still want Norway to be a country with little differences and a big heart for the poorest in the world, and that we are still going to use the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1736	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1739	One of the most important issues for creating economic development and positive growth is increased commitment to transport and infrastructure. A few weeks ago, we received a happy announcement that the government is increasing the rights of state roads, and that one is passing on the interest compensation scheme. Now we have also received the happy message that it will be paid over 1 billion. kr more on national roads, in addition to removing some expensive toll projects. The representative of Navarsete has been the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, and my question is whether it is not quite embarrassing that, after a few weeks of new government, there is such a formidable commitment to transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1746	As far as I know, it's not as much the state that both the representative and I are from, will notice the big stake. Just right – and it should have – take away a toll on projects like Fatlaberget and other smaller projects, but it is far, far from what the partner Progress Party in particular has promised. What you've done now is very small in relation to what you were looking at. We look forward to the continuation, because we have recorded that there are large cuts on other sides that are important for districts like Sogn and Fjordane. A business cut – Innovation Norway makes less money to realize good ideas in a state where a hurt needs jobs. I can barely see that the 60 million. a cut on a bomb that private individuals would pay can compensate for the lost potential of creating new and viable jobs in the counties such as Sogn and Fjordane.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1751	I just have to say that I disagree with the assessments of the representative of Navarsete. In these days, the county council of Sogn and Fjordane will deal with its regional transport plan. Without the extra rights that have come from the Right-Forward Party government, when it comes to both increased fees and interest-rate compensation schemes, they would not actually have been able to allow money to increase road construction efforts, so that's a bad thing. Otherwise, we can see that the cuts in regional development are about. 400 million. kr of a frame of SEK 1.6 billion. kr, so there's only a smaller part of the cut that comes here. We also see that the redistribution that comes to transportation is very well received in Sogn and Fjordane. My question to Navarsete is: Is there not a commitment to transport and infrastructure the most important measures that can be taken to create growth and development in the districts as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1759	Transport is similar to an active industrial policy the most important thing to do in order to generate growth in District Norway. For this reason, I am very pleased that I started the first race lift and that we have double privileges of transportation, that we have put on further growth in the current national transport plan. I sincerely hope that this government will do the same thing, that we will do the same raised and the same growth as the red-green government did for eight years. We'll have that fasitite in a few years – hopefully for a long time in eight years, because so long I hope this government won't sit down. In the case of road construction, Sogn and Fjordane could provide the county council and all other priority economic resources, county roads and borrowings if one wished it out of the abundant growth that has been in such means since we took over from the Right in 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1764	The undersigned has read with interest the red-green comments on the budget. Furthermore, I have tried to compare both the government platform and the Central Party's policy and action programme. Some of the interesting thing to read is actually that in their programs, among other things. states that they wish to increase the asset tax base, strengthen the BSU scheme, increase the amount of the inheritance tax free, and not least the ROT deduction, which can be found in the government statement. Isn't there any reason to believe that the Center Party would have a greater impact on more of its affairs by simply taking a step away from the red-green platform and seeking cooperation on the civil side?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1769	It's as well-known as the soundness of politics that determines the direction you're going in. I must respectfully say that the draft budget that came from the dark blue government this year was not exactly a proposal for the Center Party. With the cuts made in rural policy, in industrial policy, in agriculture, in fisheries and in the power-intensive industry, it was not exactly an offer of cooperation. We in the Center Party want better framework conditions, but there's a difference between shaving and cutting off the chin. There is a difference between lifting the bottom-up inheritance tax and removing the entire inheritance tax and replacing it with a very bad measure, simply changing the depreciation rules, which means that both agriculture, taxi drivers, the construction industry and many others – 200,000 enterprises – have a poor framework. It's not the Center Party's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1776	The center party likes to represent itself as an Earth-near party occupied by the practical things of everyday life. Some of the most reasonable, ground-near and boring things, if one wants to, one can do, are to ensure the necessary maintenance. There's something that the Central Party nuclear electors know all about. But in the two areas where the Central Party has been responsible for the last eight years, i.e. the transport and municipal sectors, where Navarsete has our State Council both places, the maintenance needs have increased greatly. It applies to roads, to railways – both with maintenance facilities in the hundred billion-kronor class – and to infrastructure such as sewerage, and to buildings such as school buildings, for which municipalities are responsible. Why has the Centre Party consistently downgraded the necessary maintenance for eight years?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1783	Everything in the first budget that I put forward as Minister of Transport, changed the distribution between investment and maintenance in relation to what the Bondevik II government had in its budget, precisely because we saw that it was absolutely necessary – everything from starting up again the development of the railway, which had stopped, to lifting the maintenance of sections that had never seen means of maintenance. They were almost crying when they got the means to maintain the Dovrebana. We got a new direction there too. However, we must also not undermine the fact that once we have created 345,000 new jobs and have a record population growth, the need for maintenance has also increased dramatically these eight years. Even with high-recorded licenses both for transportation and within the local economy, which got a completely different boost after we entered the government offices, we see that there are unsolved tasks also after that government. It'll probably be after the next one as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1788	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1791	In this room there are many courageous and great political steps for the future up through history. In this context, it has also been possible to do unpopular things, which have been able – in major conflicts – to adopt major measures in the future. The really big thing you have to go back to the time of the left in this room to point out, that's when you were, for example. built Bergensbanen, which corresponded to a state budget, with a few – I heard that maybe there was only one – voting overweight in this room. We see today that our country is facing very great challenges in terms of long-termity, both to build on the community that is created, and to facilitate the creativity of Norwegian society. We in the Left believe that you should be able to use the tax system to achieve the changes you want in society over time. We in the Left believe that it is possible to use the charging system in such a way that you get the changes in people that you actually want to facilitate. We have so much faith in using the tax and tax system that we are actually willing to give up much of the power in terms of rules and regulations, and rather stimulate the right choices through our tax and tax system. For example, we will. within the environment. We want to do this to make it pay a lot more to stand in the job and contribute to the community, but also to the sea. It should be much more profitable to have Norwegian owners who are involved in developing Norwegian companies with Norwegian jobs and who are involved in creating our future. We want to use our fee system so that buying healthier things actually gets cheaper, that having a healthy diet and a healthy lifestyle should not be reserved for them with good advice. We believe that we need to bet on the things that we know really matter in the future, but that maybe are the priorities that don't cut most velvet bands in an election contest, for example. to focus on research and knowledge, and to ensure that we move power down to the important knowledge institutions. In this area, we have done a lot in this budget. We have proposed to create, to create a knowledge effort for Norway, to create a greener society and greener jobs, which are our main efforts, in our alternative state budget. We are also pleased that we have had much of this dragged into the pre-negotiated budget, which we are going to vote in favour of subsidiaryly here today. It's a small note that no one has mentioned, but it's quite important. It's e.g. to tell the teachers that it is best for you to assess what follow-up children need in order to have good homework. It's shifting power down to the good professionals who see the kids in their eyes -- not making strict training laws in this room, where we think we know which kids need this follow-up. It's important to have a bet on fellows, which we've been given. It is important to give teachers the freedom of choice back. We take the first steps with a reform of continuing education, but also what we do with shifting power down. The left would have liked us to have received eleven months of study support in this budget, and we'd like to admit that's our loss. But we are very pleased with the wording we were given, and that we are now going to have a review of the support, after we have seen that there was almost no increase in study support under the previous government. I believe that this is part of laying the groundwork for a new type of class distinction, where having a mom and dad with a good wallet is important in order to be able to take higher education. As far as the environment is concerned, we believe that there must be a great transformation into society. In our primary proposal, we have a I want to show you this with an example. When Torild Skogsholm was Minister of Transport, she did some grip that someone thought was strange, strange and which someone said was never going to be a success, namely cars that went on stream. She implemented some measures on some charging pages, she implemented some measures when it came to collective fields, and she implemented some measures when it came to bombing companies – and almost cheered up here in the hall when it was done. Not so many changes have been made during the previous government in the case of electric cars. But the effects of the grips that Torild Skogsholm did as Minister of Transport, we are beginning to see rolling around Norwegian roads. No one's flirting with an electric car anymore. In fact, Oslo's taxis are about to get it. We are not just becoming the world's electric car capital, but we are becoming a country with massive sales of electric cars – the major oil producer Norway. It shows that creativity and perseverance over time bring about such changes. This does not mean that people in Norway are getting worse because if someone is driving an electric car. That doesn't mean that someone has a lot of victims because they're driving an electric car, but that means that you have some creative politicians who are able to make suggestions that have an effect over time. For us, it is important to have a targeted commitment to the fight against poverty. The Left's alternative budget means a real tax consolidation for the richest, but a tax haven for the poorest. The impact of resource-intensive users in municipalities is really to hit the weakest. I'm glad we got settled in it. I am also pleased that we got settled in the red-green cut, where we refused to provide support for accommodation for people who do not have a place to live in our big cities. For me, it was very important, because it says something about having decency, and it says something about that if you have a code to enforce in a city, you also have to give people an alternative. We have been downplayed on all our proposals for eight years. Then we're very happy to increase the contribution to the railway by 650 million. kr – or small money like Jonas Gahr Støre called it. For me, it's pretty important money to lift the Norwegian railway further. There are very few red lace clippings, and you can characterize it as a bit of boring money – that's exactly what it takes to get the trains to go. This morning we had two stops only in the Oslo region because of poor maintenance on our railway systems. This is important money for people to see that taking wise environmental choices is actually something we value. We're getting a complete plan for intercity, which is important. That's how we now have, but this budget agreement, a greener tax shift than the red-green government put forward. We are also pleased with the things we were given to reverse both in terms of the percentage of aid and the rules for permitting fishermen, but the most important thing for us was the offensive grips we got on the environment, on the railways and on the electric car. We are going to be both demanding and constructive in cooperation with the government parties. But no one should doubt that for the Left, the most important thing to do in environmental policy is to turn to a greener society with greener solutions, and to get something done in the fight against poverty. Then we're not so concerned about how we're going to be able to take the rich, but we're actually able to help the poor. We will fight against the two-part division of the Norwegian economy that we believe today is undermining our very well-being if we are not able to convert the Norwegian economy into a day-to-day business where our oil may not be as much worth it as it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1828	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1831	The representative, Skei Grande, said in his post that it would pay to work. We heard representatives from the Left say the same thing at the latest in the throne debate, and it was also said that the Left should closely follow the government on this point. Things might indicate that the left has forgotten to follow. The budget, for which the Left ensures a majority today, is full of weaknesses in the working line through more expensive kindergartens, they go away from two admissions, they provide increased cash support on the road towards the stated goal of stepping up until the child has reached three years of age, the cuts in cardboard and tax class 2. Along with notified changes in working time schemes, this action will make it more difficult for many to combine having a family with having a job. There are measures that will force women out of work. How does the representative Skei Grande feel that this harmonizes with the goal of the Left that more people should work and that more people should be kept at work? Or are these goals that are about everyone other than women with children?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1838	With all due respect, the Labour Party has been in charge of this country for eight years! At that time they had e.g. tax class 2 for eight years. At that time, they didn't put in two babysittings because they had eight years on them. There are a lot of these measures that you didn't do when you had the power, but that you think today we're chasing people back to the kitchen bench when we actually stand for the same thing that the previous government did. I'm very happy, for example. for the tax class 2 scheme. It is exactly the same as the left-hand proposal in 2011. We want it to escalate, but we believe that if you're going to do that kind of thing in the Norwegian economy, you also have to take action to prevent people from falling into poverty traps. That's why it's important, when the Left has looked at these things, that a both stimulates people to work and at the same time has a poverty trap that ensures that the very poorest do not get worse and worse advice, as they got under the red-green.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1846	If it was poverty reduction Left was the most concerned, there is no doubt that the Left should support a different government than the Left government has put in place. The sum of the proposals by the Left to support today, the sum of the weaknesses of the schemes implemented by the Left today and, for example: The notified changes in working time – there are schemes that have so far helped to ensure that we have the world's highest employment among women, worth more than oil – will have a negative impact. I want to talk a little bit about working hours. In the debate on working time, the representative, Skei Grande, has often provided theoretical examples of offences — offences that often turn out to be lawful if only agreements are made to that effect. So instead of imagining situations, could the representative Skei Grande mention an alternative working time system that the law has prevented, a system that the Left believes will be legal through amendment of the law?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1855	The policy of the government that went off has led to a growing number of poor children in Norway. It was one of the main motivations for the Left to actually change government. We have a lot of actions, and some of them are in the cooperation agreement. The rest of us are going to fight into the budget. This was one of our motivations to actually change the government. We had a government that was so busy distributing other people's money, that it forgot who's at the bottom of the ranking ladder. So happy in socio-economic macros was it, that it forgot what it's going to do to really get people out of poverty. If you look at the grip that really works to get women employed, I can see, for example. It is strange that the red-green government voted against every year when the Left fought against all the ill-paid costs related to women, and pregnancy was to be paid by the State and not incurred by the individual employer. There had really been a grip that had meant something to women in the workplace – much more than the proposals mentioned here by the Trichtenbergstäten. I can mention a lot of suggestions. The problem is that there are trade unions that prevent good agreements in the workplace from being followed up. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1864	The representative, Skei Grande, must do that another time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1867	The left finally concluded not to go into government. Nevertheless, the desire to change government was so great that they entered into a cooperation agreement with the Right-wing Party Government. Now we see a Left that defends government policy instead of making demands, for example. in areas such as the asylum field where the left was previously a clear voice. Today, the Left votes for the government budget – a budget in which the Left, together with the Christian People's Party, has spent a quarter of the expenditure side on the reversal of the Cut of the Right-wing-Fremskritsparte government in the Stoltenberg II budget. It is otherwise difficult to see again the profile of the left. The Vice-President of the Left criticised even here in the debate today that the environmental profile was too poor in the draft budget of the Right and the Progressive Party. Nevertheless, the Left vote in favour. What strategy does the Left have to avoid developing into a Profileless Party, which is exclusively a supporting party for the Right Party Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1876	Now, in fact, we're getting a greater green tax change in negotiations with this government than the red-green government was able to do. We're getting a bigger stake on rail, on the maintenance of the important things in people's everyday lives to make good environmental choices with this government than with what the Stoltenberg government presented. We look at many other areas of the environment that we have been well implemented through those negotiations, but it is clear that we are far from satisfied. It's a long way from what we should have gotten to ideally. It is on the table here – it is our alternative state budget that is our proposal. Then to the asylum field. In the case of asylum-seekers, we will have a new legislation. We tried that for eight years, and got nothing done with the previous government. To put it that way, we should have made sure that we received many more quota refugees. We've been downplayed every year under the red-green government. My conclusion is that next year we will receive 500 more than we did last year with the red-green government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1885	I have traditionally viewed the Left as a party that is very concerned with the woes of small businesses and well. It was celebrated with cake and shower that the inheritance fee was to be removed, that it was within the agreement and the budget that will be adopted today. There was something in small writing there that would make individual companies and farmers risk getting a tax bill of maybe hundreds of thousands of dollars, maybe up to $1 million. kr, in increased tax due to this change. Then I register a note that one will come back to this in the revised budget. But my question is, is this a good way to conduct a tax policy, that one introduces first and then investigates the consequences for those who are affected, afterwards?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1892	It's so great to have the Center Party back again, out of the red claw, where they can again talk about small businesses! I'm very happy to be on the team with the Center Party in this area. The inheritance fee is very important, because removing it can cause us to have several Norwegian owners. I think the Center Party has seen that. In many Norwegian enterprises — family businesses — it has been a hindrance to many small businesses in the future, because the fees are so high that it is much more profitable to sell good business ideas abroad than to keep them in Norwegian families. So it's like this we went to the elections on. We keep what we promise. We promised in the election that we would be able to get rid of this. We have removed it in our alternative budget. Then we have to work on it if it turns out it has some negative consequences, but a lot indicates that it doesn't have as many negative consequences as the front page of the nation would say.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1901	Let there be no doubt: everything that comes from this government has an image from the Left. It's the Left that's made sure we got the government we have. So that means that what's decided is from the government, and who's in government -- all this is Left's work. Then the representative Skei Grande talks about children and the outsiders, and doesn't mention the shadows in this. Let me take the cultural school offer. The government is planning to remove the cultural sculetik. It assures all children the ability to receive cultural education — to learn an instrument or to stand in a performance. Now I don't get the opportunity to make a big love statement, which was in the election campaign to the Left, but my question is, where did the love of the cultural sphere come from?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1910	We in the left keep what we promise. We promised that a civil majority would give a civil government, and we negotiated a cooperation agreement on the civil side that we should deal with. The left has always been skeptical of the cultural school hour. For me, it's a clean SV project that's so wrong about culture, that's what it's all about: believing that if you give all children one hour, everyone should be able to become great artists or get a taste of all the art around us. I think there are many more effective ways to spend that money – for example. by providing proper cultural schools to those who want to play instruments, and by giving priority to other activities, including in the field of volunteering — rather than having the country provide the children with one hour of culture. That's how SV thinks culture. That's not how the Left thinks about culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1919	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1922	Where you're in politics depends on who you're listening to. The changes made to the 2014 budget clearly underline who has the ear of the new government. This budget is the beginning of a party for those who have the most. In a Europe where social and economic disparities are increasing enormously, Norway has been a lonely example of a different direction of social development. Under the red-green government, the economic inequality went down because we led a policy for redistribution through the tax system and for work to all. Small differences are good for society as a whole, create trust and provide the basis for the solidarity between people that makes strong communities possible. In addition, a strong welfare state and small differences are good for the Norwegian economy. It ensures competence, high professional participation and security to bet. It contributes decisively to our having one of the world's most productive economies. We have to create to share, but we also have to share to create. The new majority has set the course in a different direction, with large tax cuts for those who have the most in Norway. 4 pst. the population receives 40 pst. of the tax cuts. As I said, where you stand in politics is determined by who you listen to. Government parties are talking about growth-promoting tax havens. It is a great paradox that these tax cuts are financed by strengthening what is the main problem of the Norwegian economy: oil dependence. Norway is spending too much on fossil energy. It damages the climate, but it also damages the mainland industry and industry. We're late for the transition to the green jobs of the future, and the cost level is too high for companies outside the oil adventure. We also gamble against our own climate targets and ensure that we will lose financially if the world's emissions are reduced rapidly. In the years to come, we need to reduce oil dependence. SV will promote three steps to achieve this: firstly, to reduce the rate of extraction on Norwegian soil; secondly, to withdraw the pension fund from fossil energy; and thirdly, to be very careful with the use of oil money. Our new government thinks the opposite. It is now supplied with the honey jar to gain short-term profits and to avoid making difficult choices. With the Swedish government, there has been a family and gender equality policy that has changed everyday life to the better for Norwegian families with young children and ensured greater security for Norwegian children. The child protection promise, the child care reform, the reduction of cash support, the strong expansion of the parental quota and the third division of parental leave have combined to provide one of the most important reform periods for family and gender policies in Norwegian history. It's amazing that a government that says it confesses to the line of work will change such a policy. It's amazing that a government that's concerned about integration will change such a policy. And it's amazing that a government that says it's concerned with freedom of choice, will change such a policy. The new majority has an immature family policy. Now women should be encouraged not to work and not to have their children in kindergarten. On the other hand, fathers should work more and be less at home with small children – an effect the government explicitly budgets for when it cuts in the spring quota. The country's young children's parents have reason to feel cheated. Before the election, the Right criticised the Red-Green government for the harvesters to wait too long in kindergarten. With the red-green proposal, we would have come a third on the way to two admissions this year, and children born in September and October this year would be placed next autumn. Those children were failed by the bourgeois majority. The result is more expectation and greater uncertainty and unforeseeability for families. With the new government, kindergartens are down-prioritized. It'll be fewer, but more expensive places. Fathers lose their freedom of choice. Cash support is strengthened. With this, we risk that more families will remain in poverty traps and that fewer children will learn Norwegian. While there is a party for those who have the most, it is petty cut for some of those who have the least. Even with new oil billions, the government cuts into action places for the unemployed, older people lose their free dental check, and rich Norway will receive 500 fewer quota refugees than the red-green budget provided. It just illustrates what I said in the introduction: where you stand in politics depends on who you listen to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1944	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1947	Both growth and well-being depend on a profitable business with safe jobs, and it is the same medicine that balances inequality and prevents exclusion. Having a job — having one’s own income — is the greatest protection against poverty and social inequality. Then we have recently seen clear signs of slowing down in parts of the economy under the red-green government. The proportion of young people employed is falling. This is worrying. Likewise, SV likes to brag about the jobs that have also been created in the private sector in recent years, and we're going to be happy for each and every one of them. That is, SV is suitable for boasting by private companies when appropriate, but otherwise the involvement of SV is not very visible in how to secure private growth and private jobs. I could imagine challenging the representative Lysbakken: how will he and his party ensure that we get more private investors and entrepreneurs who are betting on Norwegian jobs in the coming years?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1954	On the contrary, compared with the complaints we have heard from the right parties, there have not been bad conditions for private business in Norway in recent years. On the contrary, a very high number of new jobs have been created. There have been good conditions for growth for those who have wanted to bet in Norway. What is our task as elected representatives is to facilitate that development. Then we have to dare to take some action that strengthens the Norwegian economy's ability to meet the future. The main challenges are not inheritance taxes, they are not about property taxes, but they are about reducing oil dependence, strengthening the supply of labour for those who have the least in society, and ensuring that women participate on an equal footing with men in the labour market. Unfortunately, the blue-blue budget is drawing in the opposite direction in all three areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1963	I am not surprised that the Lightbox does not respond to the question of what he is for, but also continues to frame up what he is against. Let me take another theme, education. Education and education for all are probably the second main line and the most important thing we as society can do to prevent social inequality and prevent people from falling outside — having a really good education system. It has been amazingly quiet, I think, from SV on this front lately. But now we've got a government and a vast majority of people who are committed to strengthening knowledge both in breadth, by ensuring that we now get a real teacher's promise to ensure that all our children get an even better school and even better education, and at the top of our heads, by putting a strong emphasis on higher education and research, teacher training, strengthening the apprenticeship grant, basic funding for higher education and research. Does SV agree that it is now finally time for such a real commitment to the knowledge society in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1972	First, I replied to what I want more by saying what I disagree with the government. I want us to spend less oil money, that tax cuts go to those who earn the least, and that we should pursue a gender equality policy that leads to more women working. It is the most important thing for the Norwegian economy to grow in the future. I see that in this budget line there is no trend break in relation to the education and knowledge policy SV has faced. It's the opposite of most of our bets. The teacher’s vow, which the government is talking about, is totally uncontroversial – all for better continuing education. But we were also in favour of more teachers, as this government is against, and we were in favour of a more comprehensive school day that would make the knowledge more accessible to more people. There are different lines — not in the case of continuing training.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1981	I feel that SV has great faith in the public monopoly and refuses to compete, especially in health and care, where private solutions must be kept out at all costs. Eight years of red-green rule and great faith in political governance resulted, among other things. in close to 300 000 in health queues. Many had to pay off the queue and had occasion to do so because they had the economy that allowed them to pay a little extra, and private health insurance increased enormously during this period. Is it the case for SV that the objective of protecting public monopolies – no to competition – is so important that all these consequences can be fully defended?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1990	We believe competition is very suitable for the sale of soap in supermarkets, but poor for the distribution of vital health services to the population. It's because this is not governed by market forces, but is mainly governed by the availability of skilled labour, how many doctors we have, how many nurses we have, and how many competent health professionals we have. The privatisation reform that this government wants to implement will not create one additional doctor, nurse or health professional. It will therefore not contribute to shorter queues. So we treated a lot more over the red-green years because the health care system became more effective. The threat to that development is a policy that does not focus on expanding public capacity and quality, but provides health services with a private sleeping cushion in the form of belief in a miracle cure that does not exist.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e1995	Where you stand in politics deciding who you are listening to was a quote that went back in Light Hill posts – a good quote. When the Right-Fremskritsparte government presented its additional proposal, they increased the one-off aid by NOK 2500. Through negotiations here in Stortinget, we were able to increase it further by NOK 1000 – a total increase of NOK 3500. Increased lump sums of aid are essential to correct the great injustice between those who are out of work and those who are in it — students or other young people who have not yet entered the labour market. It is true that where you stand in politics, you decide who you listen to. The Christian People's Party has listened to those who are out of work at this stage – an important first step. It is such that SV and the Christian People's Party have been allies in this matter. Is it so that I can still expect an allied partner in this? Whom do you listen to, and will you continue to listen to those who are outside the labour market?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2004	Yes, the representative Hemdal – SV agrees with the heart that it is right to increase the one-time benefit. We ourselves have agreed that it should happen in this period. So we can't be in the way that the majority is now funding this, because there's a number of cuts in other areas of family policy that mean fewer kindergartens, which means less paper school, and we can't be in. But we are going beyond this period to make proposals and join in on proposals to increase the one-off benefit, because that makes sense. Today, we have a good system for those in work who have children, but we have too poor a system for those who are out of work and for those who have children early. In that case, the Christian People's Party and SV agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2011	Through a series of replications today, the Left has tried to challenge representatives and former government councils from the red-green on missing permissions to the necessary maintenance over the last eight years. Descendence from the red-green, which is part of what we are dealing with now, is also not elevating reading. Only on the railway, the red-green government proposed several hundred million dollars less for maintenance than the same batches promised only a few months ago, in connection with the treatment of NTP. The fact that the government is constantly attacking for failure to meet its demands is, to put it mildly, a cover. Why my Lighthouse and SV that railway maintenance is a down priority task, even in a despatch budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2020	First, I want to praise the Left for fighting for the railway in the negotiations. The result of SV first fighting for the railway in the red-green government and the left in the negotiations on the Stortinget, is not at all bad, although it has to do more in the years that come. In the years in which SV has had power, rail policy has gone from being a neglected part of Norwegian transport policy to becoming an important part of the modernisation of Norway. We're becoming a modern railway nation, and now there's railway facilities running all over the country. It must be allowed to point out that the pace of railway investment is quite different today than when the Left had the Minister of Transport. Then our national transport plan, which was presented by the red-green government, has taken over the need for maintenance and also shown how we had intended to finance increased maintenance during this period. That's what we're standing by and we're going to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2028	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2031	The government parties, together with the Left and the Christian People's Party, have taken several steps to strengthen Norwegian competitiveness through the additional proposition and negotiations in Stortinget. It is necessary to ensure Norwegian jobs and welfare development. The position of the majority in the budget is well adapted to the situation in the Norwegian economy and facilitates increased value creation, well-being and takes the first steps in a new and better direction that prioritises first. Increased productivity, growth and value creation are key to making a good society even better in the future. We will pursue a policy that will facilitate the conditions for innovation, which will create tomorrow's businesses and jobs. We will focus on knowledge, research, infrastructure and innovation. The government will provide framework conditions that stimulate thinking, development and technological development. In the last eight years, there has been a lack of reform and innovation. We need to look at structural changes and make the changes that make sense. It's about recognizing that society is in constant development. Policies must keep pace with and facilitate offensive and modern developments that provide more growth, more well-being and more freedom, and the work of the government is under way. So I noticed that some of today's financial debate has also been about the cyclical report that came from the NHO. To that I have the following to say: the estimates for the future development of the Norwegian economy are relatively good. Growth estimates are available and there are estimates of low unemployment and high employment. But what we can imagine is expectations that things can get worse if we can't deal with any of the challenges that this government has inherited. We are in a situation with a high cost level inherited over many years, with no particular willingness to do anything about it. We are facing a trend where productivity growth has decreased, compared to wage growth. Nor has the previous government taken action to do something about it. We're facing a situation with an enhanced two-way economy. These are challenges that this government is taking seriously. These are challenges that this government will meet. However, there must be no illusion of solving the relatively large and comprehensive challenges without long-term thinking, without raising the necessary structural reforms and measures that will work over time. Of course, we have to do that in cooperation with business, and this government will do that. So I also noticed that the Labour Party's fiscal spokesman Jonas Gahr Støre claimed that tax breaks would in no way relieve the two-way division or the weakened competitiveness. It is a fact that under his government we saw a fall in productivity growth – that is, over all the eight years we had a red-green government. That might have been why the red-green government, just before it went off, put forward proposals to reduce corporation tax to 27 pst. – a recognition that tax relief works, tax incentives for growth, value creation, more saving and investment. That was why this government not only followed up this proposal, but implemented more and more tax reliefs – because it seems positive to the Norwegian economy. This government will continue to do more of that. This is a government that strengthens important areas. We give more money to the police, health, road, rail and knowledge, as well as growth-enhancing tax incentives, which are important for securing jobs in the future. Norway has received a government and a large majority with visions and a direction for the future. Then I notice that this debate has indicated great expectations that the government should have actually completed its entire platform in the first few weeks after its accession. I'm glad we have an impatient big deal. I have also noticed that there are expectations, perhaps especially in the opposition, that this government will implement changes that the opposition itself is opposed to, that the opposition itself has made choices not to implement, but that they now expect this government to do. I have noticed a bit of artificial and touching care from the Workers' Party linked to the Right and the Advance Party's voters. I can assure you that we will take good care of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2050	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2053	No, then, the Minister of Finance can take it easy: it is not a concern for the voters – it is just a desire to demonstrate that there are quite big differences. I am actually quite happy with the politician Siv Jensen, and I like her even better as a finance minister than as an opposition politician. Every time I meet her in Stortinget, there's an opportunity to clarify a few things. Who is this new politician we're meeting? What does this political man now mean, as Minister of Finance, as opposed to what she meant before? We can all enjoy going through that sometimes. One area is that for many years, maybe decades, she was a representative who thought we could spend a lot more oil money in Norway, and that it would go well. Then I would like to ask the Chairman of the Advance Party question: Does the Chairman of the Advance Party agree with the Ministry of Finance in the assessment that the high level of costs and vulnerability to a fall in the oil price warrant caution in increasing the use of oil revenues, and what does she add to the concept of «cautiousness» in terms of increasing the use of oil revenues? Just a few months ago, there were dozens of them in the dozens, and the rule of action was really something that one should liquidate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2062	I have always been, and I am still, concerned that there are several steps we have to take in the Norwegian economy. One is that we have to dry to give priority to the most important thing first. We in the Progress Party have always done so in our alternative budgets, and this government does so in its draft budget by daring to give priority to some tasks in order to invest more in others. And then we're going to spend 15 billion. oil crowns next year. It is well adapted to the Norwegian economy, in particular because it is measures that stimulate growth-promoting tax havens, which will be good for the Norwegian economy in the future. There are also instruments the Progress Party has always been in favour. In addition, when the rule of action came into force and all the parties in the Grand Duchy agreed that oil money should be used primarily in the economy for growth-promoting measures: tax relief and investment in infrastructure, research and education. That is what this government is doing, and it is fully in line with what the Progress Party has been doing for many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2071	I would like to be allowed to follow up, because the Council of State does not give priority to the most important thing. You go and spend four billion more on oil -- we're suggesting 11 billion on oil. kr to, the government proposes to spend 15 billion. kr to. Why not much more? Why did they stop at 15? What is it about the Norwegian economy that makes it impossible to spend even more oil money, and what caution is the Minister of Finance? Is this something the Progress Party leader joins in reading the Norwegian economy and need, or is it the result of a compromise in collaboration with partners Right and in view of the Stortinget? I am concerned about how she reads the Norwegian economy and what the Norwegian economy tolerates the use of oil money, because it seems to me – even if we do not propose to spend more oil money – that the estimate that has been made is done with some moderation. It contrasts with what the Progress Party has previously thought this economy can bear.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2078	The last representative, Gahr Støre, claims to be wrong. In its last two alternative state budgets, the Progress Party has had a moderate use of oil money, which has been thought to have been well adapted to the economic situation. The Progress Party has always said that we need to assess the economic situation from year to year, both when we quote the tax and tax reliefs, when we assess how much more money we should spend and when we evaluate which cut we should carry out. I believe that the budget adopted by the Stortinget today is a budget that is well adapted to the situation in the Norwegian economy. I also notice that the social partners received this budget with considerable relief. They were satisfied with many of the measures put forward by the government. They believe this is a budget that is well adapted to the situation, not least to meet some of the challenges facing Norwegian business. I'm very pleased with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2085	At least I agree with the representative Gahr Støre in one thing – I have even more sense for Siv Jensen as Minister of Finance than as an opposition politician. I also think that the final outcome of the negotiations supports that. Today, the Political Spokesman of the Progress Party, Gjermund Hagesetter, announced that there could be a basis for new tax havens in the revised budget, depending on economic developments. I want to challenge the Minister of Finance to elaborate on what the government believes in that very question. Are you on the same track as what Hagesets are?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2092	Let me first say that I am very pleased that the representative Syversen appreciates Minister of Finance Jensen. This may be because the Progress Party is now given the opportunity to implement much of the policy we have been working for over 40 years in opposition. I am very pleased that for the first time we have managed to remove one of the perhaps most hated fees in Norway – the inheritance fee. So the question of the cyclical picture in the future. Of course, it is absolutely essential that the government follow that development closely and closely. We believe that the budget adopted in the Grand Duchy today is well adapted to the economic situation. No estimates made, either from the NHO or others, indicate otherwise. But what we're catching up with is an atmosphere. We cannot create the budget based on mood – we create the budget based on facts. Therefore, the government will follow the situation closely in the future and make proposals for changes to the revised situation, should the situation change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2099	I'm not going to name any politician Siv Jensen, but she's a nice lady, at least. I have a question -- rhetoric aside. After the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, what are the estimated tax reliefs for business?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2106	If I don't remember errors, the estimated tax relief is about 7 billion. kr for next year, and there are reliefs that go in the right direction, seen with the government's eyes. Tax relief is now necessary and appropriate to stimulate more Norwegian-led enterprises and jobs. It is important to strengthen the possibility of creating more jobs around our country, including in the districts, of which I am used to the involvement of the representative, Battle Violence Vedum. This is about strengthening the possibility of reinvesting in own enterprises, and one of the main means we can use to do so is to reduce taxes on wealth, but of course it is also important that we remove the inheritance tax, which has created major challenges, especially related to the generational shift in family-owned enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2112	I can also know that after Nydalen I got the feeling for both the politician and the person, Siv Jensen. Quite a year ago, the Stortinget discussed a proposal from the Advance Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left on the objectives of the simplification promise. In concrete terms, the following parties were proposed: ‘The government is asked to report every six months on the achievement of the government’s simplification commitment based on the standard cost approach, preferably in the context of the presentation of the State budget and the revision of the national budget.’ The new government has achieved ambitious goals in terms of simplification, which the Left obviously supports, but it is somewhat less ambitious in terms of follow-up and reporting. In the government platform, it is stated that the government will report annually on progress in simplification work. My question is whether the government will follow up the government party, the Left and the Christian People's Party were a few about a year ago, and produce concrete half-yearly reports on the status of the simplification work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2126	I am very pleased that some of the things the four cooperation parties agree on are the need to simplify, debureaucratise and streamline Norway. We have seen and seen over time that a relatively unnecessary proportion of taxpayers' money has gone into tasks that others can do cheaper and better, which have created more bureaucracy, and which are perceived as problematic both for entrepreneurs and for households. This government will do something about it, in cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left. I am prepared to help inform the Storting continuously about the changes that are actually being made by the government. Something can be done through regulatory changes and measures that the government has to do; other things we have to present to the Stortningen for further review and decision-making. I am sure that through the good cooperation between the four parties, we will come up with many and good simplification measures in the weeks, months and years ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2133	There was a touching consensus between the Left and the Advance Party. I noticed that the Minister of Finance referred to the inheritance tax as if it had been. If the Minister of Finance hates a fee, I understand she's removing it, but I don't know if it's the best professional decision-making basis. On the contrary, the Minister of Finance, in the form of a letter to Stortinget, states that removing the inheritance fee has little dynamic effect. I have two questions for the Minister of Finance. One is: can the Minister of Finance refer to one country in Europe that has reduced taxes and cut welfare in recent years and reduced unemployment as a result? The second question is, how can it be that Minister of Finance Siv Jensen here in the Chamber can say that removing the inheritance tax is growth-promoting, but that she cannot write it in the form of a letter to the Stortinget? I have two key points for the last question: ‘professionals’ and ‘employers’.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2140	I have not claimed that there are dynamic effects of removing the inheritance fee. On the contrary, I have been concerned about the impact it has on companies that would otherwise be sold to non-resident owners, because of some of the challenges that have been faced with generational shifts in companies as a result of the inheritance tax. So it makes sense to take it away. It is a heavy charge, both for individuals and households, and especially for family-run enterprises, which has experienced this as a demanding additional burden in an otherwise demanding economic everyday life. So I'm very pleased that the government is now removing a tax that's hated out among the Norwegian people, and that's now being lost because we've got a new government and a new political majority. So to the tax question. It is such that the OECD and a wide range of others recommend reduced tax rates on both capital and efforts to stimulate economic growth. That's what this government is doing, and we have good faith that this will bring good results.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2147	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2150	From this pulpit it has more than once in the last year, naturally, been referred to the number of jobs created under red-green rule. The strong growth in employment is perhaps the most striking expression of the strong economic development Norway has had in recent years, despite the fact that the world around us has been experiencing the most severe financial crisis since the 1930s. I would nevertheless argue that it is not the growth of employment in itself that is the strongest result after eight years of red-green governance. For me, it is the combination of strong employment growth and reduced income differences that remain as an extraordinary inheritance after the end of the government. In the international context, developments in Norway have been unique. In the last ten years, the differences between people have escalated in almost every country it's natural to compare with. Sweden, after the bourgeois took over, has the fastest growing differences we've seen in the entire OECD area since statistics began to appear. Increasing intra-country differences have almost been considered as a law of nature, including in Norway, until 2005 — an inevitable result of borders being reduced, and both money and people moving faster and faster. In a small, open economy like the Norwegian one, it could quickly mean a pressure on both the pay structure and the arrangement of our taxes that it would be impossible to resist. The fact that we have managed to stick to tripartite cooperation, well-organised working life and collective wage formation are important explanations of the results we have achieved. But it has also been important that we have maintained the tax system. In recent years, several important tax changes have been introduced that have helped to overcome major tax adaptations. The broad basis and low rates have been the review melody. By harmonising the tax system and removing adjustments and loopholes, it has been possible to keep tax rates at a level that Norwegian business lives well. At the same time, the tax system has been actively used to distribute. In sharp contrast to all countries around us, income disparities have declined in Norway since 2005, and this is a direct result of changes in the tax system. With the introduction of dividend taxes, the reversal of pension taxes and the targeting of property taxes from being a tax largely paid by pensioners with some money on the book, under the Bondevik government, the property tax is now the mechanism of the tax system that ensures that the most wealthy actually pay taxes. Throughout the election campaign, we tried to get the bourgeois parties to respond to whether they believe that a high level of distribution and small income differences should be a political goal in our society. Most responded, but when the bourgeois representatives were challenged about whether the tax policy they opted for would increase or reduce the economic differences between people, it became silent. Now we have the fasit. There's a nice graph in the supplemental proposition. It shows that the lowest income groups get about as much in tax cuts as the people in the upper income ranges, approximately. 0.6 pst. But everyone knows that 0.6 pst. of a low income, is almost nothing, while 0,6 pst. of a high income can be quite a lot. The distribution profile of the billions distributed in tax cuts is clear when you see what people end up with in actual dollars and dollars. Those with the lowest income receive less than DKK 1 a day — it does not even keep buying the apple that has now been taken from schoolchildren, and it does not at least compensate for increased kindergarten prices and higher health care costs. Those with revenues above 9 million. kr gets an average of almost 250000 kroner a year, or 810 times as much as those who have the least – if you choose to see it that way. In 2014, income differences between people in Norway will rise. The Ministry of Finance's own calculations confirm this. It is weak for the moment, but as the government parties have repeated several times: this should only be the beginning. I think it is very sad and alarming that we are getting a new course for Norway in this area. It is a course that, in my opinion, goes in the wrong direction. Redistribution is good in many ways. First of all, it's very good for the people who enjoy it. But equally important, societies with a high degree of redistribution are societies with a higher level of trust among people, and not least the society that delivers consistently better economic results than societies that are characterised by great economic differences. This is more and more conscious of international research, and more and more economists are interested in the striking context. The right-hand side argument for this device on the tax havens is that they want to bake the cake bigger. There was also a review theme in the election campaign. The tax havens of those who are the best in it from now on are going to benefit us all through increased economic activity and improved growth capacity in the economy, it's said. In many other countries – I see for example. to the United States – this type of economic thinking is emphatically located in the drawer. Reagan tried it out, Bush senior tried it out. It's well-tested, and it doesn't work. There is no point in claiming that large personal tax concessions to those who have the most raise the economy. We've had a lot of long rounds of what wealth tax means, and not least what it doesn't mean for Norwegian companies. The conclusion of all the studies we've read, all the rounds we've had, is regardless of whether the goal is to increase profitability in Norwegian companies, wealth tax law is a very small non-comprehensive instrument. Yes, the wealth tax has its sides, but it has become an important distribution policy instrument, and if billions of billions are to be spent on strengthening the growth capacity of Norwegian companies, there are many measures that can be taken that are significantly more targeted than going to the personal tax of shareholders in enterprises. The removal of the inheritance fee writes the Ministry of Finance itself will not have a significant dynamic effect. However, the conversion provides a potential tax return for tens of thousands of individual enterprises. The only tax cut that goes directly on the bottom line of companies is the tax cut that the Stoltenberg government has produced by proposing to reduce corporate tax. It's a tax cut that goes directly to the company, which doesn't go the other way through personal tax relief. It is nevertheless the weakening of the line of work that I react most strongly to. The Prime Minister has repeatedly expressed her concern about increased oil dependence. We share those concerns. Some of the background to the launch of the growth package in the context of the revised budget was the fact that there was a trend towards increased oil dependence and an increase in the division of the economy. In today's VG, the Minister of Finance expresses concern about the two-way distribution of the economy, in response to the report from the NHO, to which many have referred in the debate today. But for me, the answer to the increased concern about the two-way sharing of the economy should be increased oil money usage is a mystery. But more important than money on the book is our work effort, which is going to determine how well we are doing in the years that are coming. The extraordinary work of Norwegian women beyond the OECD average is worth more than the oil fund and all Norwegian oil reserves combined. Next year, the government is expecting to save 344 million. kr to have fewer children in kindergarten. Increased cash support and more expensive kindergartens provide it. Thirty-five million. kr is expected to be saved by cutting the paper. That saving is because it is calculated that there are more women who are going to take leave at the expense of fathers, and women have, as they know, lower average income than men have. This will lead to less expenses for the scheme, so you're assuming you're saving $35 million. kr in less time together for father and child. Then I was glad that the government initially supported our proposal to remove class 2 tax for couples. There is a system that further stimulates women to get out of work, because when we look at the statistics, at how this system turns out, there is no doubt that it is primarily women, and especially women with a minority background, who are currently using that system. That is why I am all the more disappointed that this scheme was renegotiated into the civil budgetary agreement. The sum of all this, increased cash support, increased child care prices, scrapping two babysittings per year and reintroducing tax class 2 are targeted measures that will, in total, undermine women’s participation in the work of the economy – the one that is so important to our economy. There are probably a lot of words that can be used to characterize this, but forward-looking is definitely not one of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2186	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2189	I link my question to the last one in the post, about tax class 2 and the line of work, which many people can agree on, and I understand that the representative is not satisfied with the fact that it came back into the budget. What has come back into the budget of tax class 2 is what I would call tax class 1.5, because it's not the original tax class 2. So this government has come down to tax class 1.5 after a few weeks in the chair. Marthinsen's government hasn't done anything to it at all for eight years, after not equaling class 2. Does not Marthinsen think that this really bears witness to the new government’s power of action and implementation?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2194	It's a little strange, I have to admit, to listen to bourgeois representatives who at one moment accuse us of not having visions, not having plans, not having any ideas for Norwegian society, and at the next moment accuses us of not having completed enough the years we've been sitting. Just so that's said, I'm glad that class 2 is conducted at a lower rate than what was in the original proposal of the Christian People's Party, which went into the rush to negotiate this again. But there is no doubt that the way this system is going out helps to stimulate women who are in the periphery of the labour market, who are most likely to be at home, to continue doing just that. When you see it in combination with what you're doing on cash support, in combination with what you're doing on kindergartens, in combination with the fact that you cut in the paperwork, there's no doubt that the result of it will be that more women go home. I can't believe the Fleet can defend it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2199	The representative, Marthinsen, was involved in these tax havens proposed by the government. Not surprisingly, the employee’s representative is tax-free and looks at the nearest waste of money that the individual gets to keep more of his own income — especially the wealth tax was bad. Now, the property tax is a strange tax, there are very few countries that have it, and what's extra bad about the property tax is that a distinction between foreign owners and Norwegian owners. If, for example: are two hotels located next to each other in Østfold, and one is owned by a Norwegian and the other by a Swedish, the Norwegian has to pay taxes on wealth, withdraw money from the hotel and pay taxes on wealth, while the Swedish owner escapes. My question to the representative Marthinsen is, is this reasonable and fair?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2204	Thank you for the question. We've had many rounds of taxes on wealth in the last year, and what seems like the right-hand side refuses to deal with is that this is a personal tax, this is not a corporate tax. If you are a shareholder in a company that operates in Norway but has a foreign citizenship, you will have to deal with the taxes on people in your own country. It's true, as Hagesetter says, there are many countries that don't have taxes on wealth, but in return, there are many countries around us, for example. significantly higher employer’s fee. The Swedes have twice as high an employer's fee as we have, many countries have significantly higher property taxes, and I have not heard from anyone from the Progress Party that there is a line to pursue in Norway. On the contrary, proposals have been made in Stortinget to ban property taxes in this country. Then we're not against using taxes as a tool to promote Norwegian business. We ourselves have proposed reducing corporate tax by one percentage point. It goes directly on the bottom line of the companies. But here you go the way of large personal tax relief to the most prosperous in Norway. It's incredibly little accurate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2212	It's also fascinating to hear the red-green arguments against tax class 2, a tax class they've ruled for seven years and first do something about the year they don't have the power to implement it. I think a lot of people see the hole in that argument. Then I'm sure that also the couple where one works and the other is the minimum pensioner, realizes that you 'deserv' a considerable tax tightening, and that's a forward-looking way of working according to the red-greens. Nevertheless, my question goes on a different theme, namely employment. When we had a hearing in the Financial Committee, LO could tell us – and we have been confirmed – that employment for them is now between 25 and 54 years of age 3 pst. lower than before the financial crisis. What does Marianne Marthinsen think is the result of the red-green administration of the Norwegian economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2221	First a little comment related to tax class 2: So it was like the government of Stoltenberg started removing tax class 2 last year, and then took the whole step in the draft budget for this year. In the case of minimum pensioners, the situation is that when we took over in 2005, there were many minimum pensioners in this country living below the poverty line. The government of Stoltenberg did something about that. There are very few minimum pensioners — if any — who are now living below the poverty line, because the minimum pension has been significantly increased and people taxed. So in terms of employment, it's like we had a hugely high employment share in 2008. Looking back on the situation in 2005, the employment rate has increased. In the meantime, we have had the worst financial crisis since the 1930s. It has, of course, also turned into the Norwegian economy. But we've come out of this with 350,000 new jobs. Two thirds of them were created in the private sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2230	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2233	Many years ago, Røre’s former president, Sjur Lindebräk, wrote the writing “Continued the Way”. Here, the modern Right's ideological platform was emanated, and the main conclusion was that a modern, value-conservative party is based primarily on its policy of trust in the individual. That's the way it is today. Right wants society to be shaped so that individuals feel welcome in the community that society is, that individuals must be able to gain freedom and trust within the boundaries of society, trust in themselves and make decisions and have their own situation. But there is also an obligation for individuals to participate in society and to help those who need help in different forms to do so. Among other things, we all have to pay taxes. We have to pay taxes according to our ability. Tax policy should be designed in such a way that it is widely welcomed by most people. This means, among other things: that people have to feel that they have something left for tax money, that they are being used rationally and rationally. Because it's not just that all public enterprises seem to be equally rational. Many people have a feeling that the bureaucracy of the public is at its greatest. We have all heard stories about individuals who feel ill-treated, whether it is in a municipal office or in another public office. There is no criticism in this respect of public servants, nor may it be that the work and all the rules are due to the possible inertia and lack of compliance. This means that it is not certain that we will need all the rules and regulations and proceedings indefinitely. The Right–Fremskritsparte-Registration has presented a government budget that takes Norway in a different direction. This is someone who criticizes the government for. Others claim that the changes are too small, that it has moved too few billions. However, the expectations for a new policy course are high among many. That's understandable. But after such a short time in government offices, it is still impressive what has been done. One example is the inheritance fee. This falls now away on 1 January 2014. I think a lot of people were surprised about that. In fact, several civil parties have promised that something would be done with the inheritance fee, but that it should be removed in its entirety already now, was enough beyond expectations. Some people criticise the government for this, but it's hard to understand that you're being criticized for something you've promised to do when you're actually doing it. The removal is good for business. The thousands of small privately owned enterprises to be transferred to the next generation are now free of concern as to whether the heirs can afford to take over the enterprise. This will create predictability and definitely secure many jobs. The desire to take the business further is also strengthened. For business and employment, this is a win-win situation. For the individual, it's also a very happy thing. It's e.g. thousands of people who own a country or cabin. These have become owners at a time when the acquisition costs were modest. The value today is often doubled, and there are examples that heirs simply could not afford to inherit the cabin or the land site because of the inheritance fee, and this had to be sold. Now that problem is solved. There is also another effect of this: the entire formal paper mill and the form field related to the current practice of inheritance taxes also falls away. Anyone who has visited a county tax office and has seen the pile of inheritance taxes, matters to be recorded, processed and not least collected knows that there is a significant amount of work involved in each case. The freed-up task should lead to immediate simplification and red tape can be reduced, or perhaps time can be spent on other important tasks. A few words about the taxes on wealth must also be mentioned. Here, the changes may not be very big, but it's important that the rate is reduced, even if only by 0.1 percentage points. But here too, the direction is important. It is expected that this slowdown will continue in the years to come, also in relation to our business life, which has pointed out a number of times, but also for most people. The change in the inheritance tax and the property tax also increases people's freedom of choice, a freedom to dispose of a little more of their wealth as desired. If it's not about large amounts, it's important. Trust is outsourced, and trust is good to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2256	After sitting here today listening to the debate, it is touching to hear the concern of some representatives for both the voters of the Right and the Progressive Party. But not least, I am very surprised that there are some people who have not realised that there has actually been a choice in the last few months, and that there is now a new policy that is being pursued. I would like the former government parties to have had more focus on the basis of today's budget debate in relation to the budget they themselves have presented, rather than being concerned about what kind of budget we are going to adopt today. Let's take care of those concerns! It is a great pleasure for me as the Council of State to be able to stand here today and see that family policy is now strengthened. The bourgeois parties have stood alone in this Chamber for eight years to strengthen family policy. Giving the family freedom of choice and flexibility back again is not just the representative of the Syversen who is happy. It is also very happy that we have been made available in this budget today. The criticism over the past few weeks has been that we are immature, and some say that we have put Norway back into the 1950s. Then I want to say that I agree with those who say that we might be the retro government. Retro is as known back again and modern again. The gender equality in Norway has more bones to stand on than the four weeks that go beyond the spring quota. This government is modern. We have faith in the family, freedom of choice and flexible solutions. I am pleased that we have now been able to increase the bulk of the parental leave, so that the families themselves can be allowed to determine the withdrawal of the leave. We have increased the one-off benefit, and not least we have strengthened the cash support scheme. The cash support scheme – everyone in this room knows – is not crucial for the working line, but it provides flexibility for the individual family over a short period of time, during a small-child phase, so that families can be at home with their children. But not only the family is the winner here, the children are also winners in this budget. And if the representative Marthinsen doesn't understand our policy in that area, that's not what I'm worried about, because the voters of the Advance Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left understand that policy, and that's the important thing. We know how important prevention is. The fact that the government now, in cooperation with the other civil parties, has been able to focus on preventive family protection is important throughout the chain of family policies, including in child protection policy. We know that there are some children who don't have the security around them that other children have. Then it's important to bet on child protection, so that when we're going to go in and take care of the children who need it, we have to make sure that we have people who have the skills to give these children a good offer. Therefore, it is with pleasure that I can present that we have strengthened both the knowledge base and the competence of child protection. But not least, we have taken action to strengthen the school provision of children under child protection. When the Riksrevision has repeatedly criticised the previous government for not focusing on school and education for the children in child protection, it is good that the new government has actually managed to find money for this, for this is an important measure to ensure the children under child protection, a good education and a good start to their lives. Because we know that education is something they're going to have with them for the rest of their lives. But this government is also impatient on behalf of the children. In ours we stood here, quite a lot of us, in this room and talked about how important it was to listen to the children and to supervise the children both when they were in institutions and in foster homes. This government has taken care of it. We have strengthened supervision and will, from the beginning, strengthen the supervisory system in the municipalities. We are impatient on behalf of the children, and those children who need help benefit. They needed a new government, and they've got it now. We really show that we're betting on the kids. Then we have also inherited a problem from the previous government. There are 5,000 refugees who have been legally resident in this country, who have not been resident. It is our duty to give them a new start in life and make them live in the municipalities, so that they can start with both language training and work and get their lives started. Therefore, it is important that we now set in motion a task with the municipalities in order to settle the refugees who have been legally resident, so that they can start their lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2277	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2280	It was interesting to hear Horne's concern for the children who are under the care of child protection. I have noticed with interest that the government has invited the municipalities to a residence allowance for refugees and has sent letters to all the municipalities of the country. I have also noticed that in the Ministry of Justice's budget, it is estimated that about 3,000 new refugees will arrive in Norway next year. How does it relate to the government cutting in the appropriations for integration? And how does it relate to cutting 20 pst? in the grant for lone minor asylum seekers?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2285	I would like the representative to have had the same concern when she herself was in government, because this is a development where the number of refugees who have now been in reception has only increased since 2006. It is my job as the Minister for Inclusion and Integration, along with the municipalities, to settle these refugees. This government has taken hold. We have strengthened the integration grant, so that the money that was left to the propensity has been transferred to the integration grant. The integration grant is something that the municipalities are asking for an increase, so that we can cover several of the expenses they have to settle. So we also know that we need to simplify that system, so that it makes it easier for municipalities to get these funds out in order to strengthen integration in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2294	Let me take the opportunity to congratulate Solvency Horne as Minister. I cost myself this weekend with the Newspaper Magazine Magazine. There was an extensive interview of Solvency Horne that was interesting to read. And it's touching to hear the great commitment of children that Horne shows from this pulpit. It is in the interview, among others. a quote, where Solvency Horne says: ‘Often the sentence sounds perfectly fine inside the head, but when it comes out it gets wrong.’ There may be a lot of people in this room who have experienced something similar. But what made me take the floor, and I would like to ask a question, is another extract from the interview, where it says: ‘Homofile is not a particularly discriminated group in Norway today, according to Solveig Horne. It is the housewives who live in the home." Then I was worried. Because we know that many homosexuals experience in school, that people on the bus get up and go away from them, and that they experience discrimination in the labour market. Then I wonder: In what areas does Horne think that housewives today are more discriminated against than homosexuals?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2313	I thank the representative of Grande for his congratulations and am pleased that he has spent the weekend reading about the State Council in the Magazine in the newspaper. As for my involvement with children in this room, the representative Grande knows very well that it's important to me, and we've been in many debates about that before. I am very happy that we got a law of discrimination in place just before the summer that all the parties were behind. One of the criticisms of the Discrimination Act, which was promoted by the previous government, was that we did not have a complete law of discrimination. It is now to be addressed by this government by promoting its own anti-discrimination law, a universal anti-discrimination law. It also discriminates against homosexuals. Then we know that there are many housewives out there who are not appreciated for the work they have done in being at home for a period of time, and it has been important for me as the Council of State to point out that we should recognise those who make choices other than what the previous government proclaimed all the way was the best for the family.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2324	I want to raise another question with the Council of State, and this is about adoption support, which is given when adopting children from abroad. We know that adoption costs have increased considerably in recent years. The red-greens provided a budget where they only introduced a price adjustment, but no ambitions other than that, and that's also something that this government has passed on. The Christian People's Party has a strong desire for adoption aid to be significantly increased, in addition to price adjustment, in the coming years, and my question to the Council of State is: What kind of ambitions does this government have as regards adoption support and the possibility that even more can adopt children from abroad?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2334	I thank you for the question and am very pleased that there is a matter of adoption for treatment in the Storting that is going to help simplify some procedures for those who adopt. I think that's some of that a demand, while at the same time getting more equal treatment across the country. Then I register that the representative Bekkevold is asking for an increase in the adoption support. It was important for the government, in cooperation with both the Christian People's Party and the Left, to increase the one-off subsidy and the cash support, and I record that adoption support was not on the list of priority objectives for either the Christian People's Party or the Left in terms of the final budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2341	When we got the extra proposition, we lightened with a powerful look after the government had cut, and then we saw that they had cut the parental leave. One thing was in the number of weeks that was reserved for father, but you took it when you cut the number of weeks that were reserved for father, savings on it. The half-year effect was minus 35 million. kr, because it is expected that fathers will not take paper commission. The programme of the Progress Party is that you want it to be chosen freely – nothing should be reserved for Dad. Is it a saving measure if you remove your father's rights? And does councillor Horne view it as negative that in her budget, fewer fathers are going to be at home, and that you spend that money giving taxes or for other purposes?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2353	I must say that I am simply surprised at the lack of faith in the fathers and the men of Norway in the red-greens, that they do not believe that men in particular want to take part in the leave. The right-wing Party government, in cooperation with the Left and Christian People's Party, thus strengthens the optional part of the parental leave. We strengthen this by allowing parents to gain flexibility and choose who should be at home with the child. It also means that parents themselves get more together with their children. So I would like to stress that there is no one today who knows completely how the changes will turn out. It can take many years before we see it. But I would encourage both men and women to take part in the parental leave. Now let's hope that it might be like this that men take more leave than women do. So I'm not as worried as the representative here expresses.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2362	There is a broad consensus that child protection needs to be strengthened. In the view of the Left, the goal must be to give children good help, not just help. In the past, the Left has proposed raising child protection education – a proposal supported by the Progress Party and the Right in 2011 but voted down by the Red-Greens. We were therefore positively surprised when the red-greens presented a draft budget in which these educations were promised, and the more disappointed when the Right and the Advance Party made their proposal where they were cut again. Fortunately, through the budgetary agreement with the government, we were able to reverse this. My question to the Council of State is: What action does she want to take to strengthen the competence of child protection in addition to the strengthening of child protection education?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2371	I think all of us agree that we need good child protection skills, so that those who actually work with these children have the skills to give the right offers to the children who need it. We have seen too many times that when the state enters and takes responsibility for the children, we have not been able to give them a better offer than they had before. That's something that's going to be the focus of this government, and I'm very happy that the Left is on the team and has ensured a majority that we've now strengthened our competence and child protection education to the level that is now in this budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2378	To the exchange of lines between the Battle of Vedum and the Council of State, it is only to add that it must be the government that lacks confidence in Norwegian fathers when they increase the optional part, as they call it, that they budget fewer men and more women stay home with their children. The logic of the state council here is probably the state council almost all alone. Horne has stated to the VG on 18 October that she does not ‘believe that most people will immediately discover the vast differences from the previous government’ in the equality field. With respect to reporting, I think most people will discover it. There are fewer fathers who get time with their children, the kindergartens are getting more expensive, the cash support is increasing, and there is a whole bunch of measures to contribute to increasing gender equality. How does the Council of State feel that these priorities fit into a government ‘very concerned with equality’?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2387	I want to remind the representative Serigstad Valen that it has actually been a choice. It's about politics, and I think we're very aware of both. The voters of both the Right and the Advance Party have clearly said that they want a new direction – they want more flexibility and freedom of choice for families. And so we have confidence in the families. We trust that families will be able to make that distribution of the parental leave weeks without us politicians getting involved in it. Then it's important to realize that it's actually a strengthening for the child, because there are more children who now get to live with their parents by having greater freedom of choice. It is more important that the child be at home with one of the parents than that one of them has to go to work because you cannot take over the weeks on which it was a quota.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2394	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2397	State Council Horne pointed out that the Right and Advance Party voters went to the polls and wanted a new course, and that is probably right. They went to the polls on the basis of the political promises made before the elections, promises that form the basis for the contract of the new majority and the new government with the voters. After the Right’s leader failed to assemble the four bourgeois parties into a majority government and chose the Advance Party as a partner of a minority government, we have a government with two parties – a good basis for these parties to promote the proposals on which they were elected and to fulfill the contract with the voters. But after the budget was presented, we can establish the following: Never has the distance between the promises given before a election and the proposals that are promoted when you are actually powerful to propose things been greater than at this election. It is serious because it undermines the trust between voters and trust-seekers, but it is also serious because it destroys the good political change of words about the direction of Norway. It's going to be hard to know when these parties actually mean what they're saying. In his contract with the voters, for example, To the right, Norway had to make less oil dependent. In the government offices, the Right Party and the Advance Party are now pushing through an increased use of oil money in the Stortinget. In their contract with the voters, the Right said that they should ensure that the municipalities carry out a continuous recording in the kindergartens, as it says in the Right Programme. Now you remove the proposal for two babysittings this year. In his contract with the voters, the Right promised that it would pay more to work. Tax class 2, cash support is now being reintroduced and the number of daycare centres is declining. In his contract with the voters, both the Right Party and the Advance Party saw that there were common people who would benefit from the tax cuts. Now ordinary people get some tens of thousands a day, while people with incomes in the multimillionth class get hundreds of thousands a year. In his contract with the voters, the Progress Party said that the study funding should be increased to an eleventh month. What was in the Stoltenberg government's proposal, in an extra month, was removed. So in his contract with the voters, the Progress Party proposed 45 billion. kr more for annual traffic. The result was a thirty-third of that. Did the Progress Party forget in its contract with the voters to tell them that it would take a generation to fulfill the promise they had in one year? And in their contract with the voters – again – the Progress Party said that only they got the Minister of Transport, they guaranteed that all tolls would be removed. The result of this budget is to remove 0.3 pst. of the tolls. So that means -- once again -- with an easy head count, it'll take 300 years at the rate of getting rid of all these tolls. Then they're gone too far. But did the Progress Party forget to tell you that it was our tip-tip tip-tip tip-tip kid who was going to take advantage of the promise the Progress Party made in its election campaign? The worst thing is that it doesn't go in that direction either, because even if you remove toll projects, you also increase, so that it goes in the opposite direction of the Progress Party promised. The conclusion is clear: Never before have so few broken so many and extensive promises to so many voters. Some of that's totally okay, because we're not concerned about fulfilling promises of 25 to 100 billion. kr in tax cuts or increase differences in Norway. We should have spent 45 billion dollars. kr more on transportation and would like to build all roads without tolls, but we said in the campaign that this does not work together. Then the Progress Party said, "Well, it's going to jump – vote on us, and we guarantee it will. So now you're sitting in the government offices and you're saying you don't have a majority. You have one third of the government, so you'd think you had at least 33 pst. influence over government proposals. But you have, as Battle Violence Vedum said in a radio debate, influence of the size of the Christian Collecting Party – at least in the case of tolls. The result is an enormous implementation in breaking election promises and the contract with the voters, increasing the use of oil money in a situation where business has the warning lights and increasing the differences in tax relief to the richest. The latter is not so dangerous, says the Prime Minister – you must not look at the macro image, you must look at the micro image. Now we understand what she means by the microimage. It's that ordinary people without wealth get 50 cents a day in tax cuts -- it's micro. The macro goes to the ones that have the most already.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2429	This week it is 50 years since John F. Kennedy was shot and killed in Dallas, Texas, on November 22, 1963. John F. Kennedy is known for his many speeches – about the hope of an equal society, about a world without nuclear weapons and cold war, about human rights, freedom and democracy. In a speech to the UN on 25 September 1961, John F. Kennedy said: ‘Events and decisions over the next 10 months can determine human destiny over the next 10 thousand years. These events are inevitable. These decisions will not be admissible. And we in this room will be remembered either as part of the generation that changed the world into a burning corpse, or the generation that kept its promise to save future generations from the horrors of war." Kennedy talked about a global issue that threatened our planet’s future – the cold war. Today, the other global challenges we face are that his words continue to apply, namely climate change. In the wake of the Warsaw climate meeting last week, there are many reasons to be disappointed. Once again, the world community does not have the power to agree on important steps to ensure sustainable development for the future. The latest report from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change warns that we are about to miss our moment of action. Without conversion now, the world will not achieve its common target of a maximum of 2 degrees heating. The right-wing Party Government bases its policy on the generational perspective. We're going to be part of the generation that saved future generations from the horrors of climate change, not the one that failed them. The importance of combating climate change is therefore reflected in the government’s value base. The right-wing Party government will pursue an offensive climate policy and strengthen climate reconciliation. We are going to implement cuts in emissions at home, but also contribute to new solutions and technologies that can be used by other countries. This is why the government is increasing its efforts in research, including: through the Climate Technology Fund. At the same time, we allocate more money to the railway and continue charging benefits for zero-emission cars. We've started working on a green tax shift that will make it profitable to act environmentally friendly. If we're to succeed in cutting emissions here at home, we need real solutions for real people. The world's energy needs will only increase in the future. This is primarily due to the fact that more and more people are being lifted out of poverty. The world's middle class will increase from 2 billion people in 2010 to 5 billion by 2030. According to Russia, Norway has Europe’s largest oil and gas resources. The climate challenge requires a transition to renewable energy sources, but oil and gas will continue to meet half the world’s energy needs by 2035. Therefore, investing in Norway’s continued high level of oil and gas production is also a matter of taking responsibility and showing international solidarity. However, in order for our fossil energy sources to continue to be useful in the future in a low-carbon society – which needs to come – and continue to have economic value for our country, it will be essential to develop technologies that make our production environmentally friendly and emission-free. Therefore, the government will continue its work on the development of CCS technologies and maintain the ambition to realise at least one full-scale demonstration facility for CO2 capture and storage by 2020. We are also increasing the effort on petroleum research to increase the extraction rate on Norwegian base and continue to maintain high pressure on the development of new environmentally friendly solutions for Norwegian oil and gas production. However, developing good solutions for the future is not just about willingness to invest in the climate and energy sectors. It's also about the willingness to invest in our human resources: the fine heads and the competent hands that will carry this investment into the future. The government's commitment to both the teacher, which is the main success factor for a student to succeed, and to action in the field of real and higher education, is an important step in the right direction. After eight years with a red-green government that prioritised fruit and green in front of quality in school, and almost left the budgets of higher education untouched, this is a pitiful change. Through an offensive climate and environmental policy, a sustainable energy policy and an ambitious knowledge policy, we provide the basis for success in the future. We're not just gonna talk, we're gonna act.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2470	Norway is a fantastic country that can now become even better, and the Norwegian economy offers us many opportunities. Riches created through large natural resources, not least oil and gas, and high labour input, have given us a level of well-being that takes care of the vast majority, but at the same time presents some challenges both for individual households and businesses, and for the country's economy as a whole. The level of costs in Norway is high — one can be tempted to use the term ‘extremely high’ — and is actually 70 pst. above the average level of our trading partners in Europe. Compared to Sweden, we have 30 pst. higher cost levels. Well-being is not free even if it is public. Some have to finance the benefits distributed to individuals and groups, and the needs may seem endless. On behalf of the Progress Party, I am pleased that the Right-Fremskrit party government has presented a budget with a clear direction and a clear prioritisation of what measures are necessary to meet urgent needs in key societal areas. The multi-party approach to government budgets no longer gives all but prioritises measures that are important to improve the framework conditions for business and the mainland industry, motivate more people to increase their commitment and work efforts, and not least stimulate economic saving and investment. It is important to remember that it is not always the size of the appropriations that determine success or failure, but rather that the money is used correctly and gives results as expected. And we're going to measure the results. At the bottom are tax reliefs to enterprises and employees of more than 7 billion. kr next year. It shows that the government and the majority parties take the rule of action seriously and implement growth-promoting tax relief that will have a positive impact on the mainland economy. This makes Norway less vulnerable to future oil price falls. Moreover, tax relief is not reserved for the so-called rich, but has a profile that gives a positive effect to most people. The value of our future work represents most of our national wealth. Tax reliefs combined with major appropriations for research and education are the main contributions to the development of our national wealth. In particular, it is important to stimulate research that results in commercially good and innovative solutions. Therefore, the tax FUNN scheme is strengthened. In total, the majority parties have prioritised education and research at nearly 900 million. kr extra in relation to Stoltenberg II, among others. by increasing training aid by 3,7 pst. with effect for the students already in 2014. The need for more road and rail – not only initial investment but also more maintenance – is well addressed in the State budget for 2014. For business and the individual user, it will be noted that 1.7 billion is granted. kr more for these purposes. It provides better logistics and lower costs for businesses and a simpler everyday life for most people. At the same time as tolling stations are being removed, the construction of 20 billion infrastructure funds is also under way. kr. Individual security is a high priority for the Right Party Government. Preparedness and security are an important primary public task, and effective and effective enforcement of established laws and regulations is important in order to strengthen the general sense of law. Increased appropriations totaling 330 million. the number of posts in the emergency team, new detention centres and several deportations of asylum-seekers without a residence permit. In addition, the treatment of asylum matters shall be streamlined and time-use reduced. Finally, over eight years of red-green governance, we have been given a growing division of the housing market by the fact that it has become very difficult for young people in the start-up phase to get into it without the help of a resource-intensive family. Proposals to extend the scheme of youth housing saving to DKK 25 000 per year and to increase the maximum amount to NOK 200000, as well as more flexible practice of the equity requirement, are important contributions to lower the threshold for first-time purchasers in the housing market. The right-wing Party government is already providing measures for greater freedom of choice and security in society and demonstrates the capacity to implement the necessary changes in line with the wishes of the voters on 9 September.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2491	This debate has largely focused on the distribution of Community funds for the benefit of society. But before we can distribute the funds, we must also create them. Such a Christian People's Party sees it, is one of our most important political tasks to facilitate good and predictable framework conditions for value creation – even now, when we are told that there may be a little darker clouds up there in the horizon. Because if we put good and predictable framework conditions in place, business can provide safe jobs and profits for the distribution of important Community goods. Value creation is the basis for well-being and innovation is probably the main driver of society’s development. In the last 200 years, the world has experienced an economic growth without parallel in history. Growth has led to an increase in living standards to a level that few thought was possible just a generation ago. Today we have services and products we could hardly dream of just 30 years ago. We can thank smart entrepreneurs and attentive investors for this. But it is also our job as politicians to ensure that this development continues to flourish. We have strong educational and research institutions that are involved in developing the good minds. We have a business that wants innovation, and we have a good tool – an instrument that can always be better, but it is good in the first place – that facilitates innovation. Innovation is the driving force behind the progress of our society. Where we cannot compete at lower costs, we can compete with the new ideas and new and better solutions. One industry that has undergone enormous innovation and subsequent productivity growth in recent years is agriculture. With an annual productivity growth of over 6 pst. is unique in agriculture. This is a result of innovation, of hard work and of wise minds, but also of thinking in agriculture from a generation perspective. However, to keep this – this innovation, this innovation and this increase in productivity – we need to ensure future faith in the industry. The interaction between agriculture and the rest of society is based on reciprocity – mutual trust, mutual need for predictability and interdependence. As a fine-tuned machinery, agriculture consists of a number of parts with a mutual dependency, such as interlocking gears. If we pull out one gear, if it's just the smallest and seemingly the least significant, we're at risk of anything stopping up. Today we have an agricultural policy throughout the country. This is crucial for value creation in the districts, for scattered settlements, for our cultural landscape and for infrastructure. Schemes that maintain this agriculture are schemes such as quotas and concessions, price regulation and good organisation of the market. All these are carriers that need to achieve the ambitious goal that we all really agree on: increasing food production for increased self-sufficiency. The support bars for Norwegian food production, both in agriculture and in the food industry, are schemes that ensure that Norwegian goods can compete at prices with non-residents – such as agricultural aid, the RAC scheme and increased target prices as a result of good import protection. An important prerequisite for increased predictability and profitability is that we support our industry and industry, and secure the important pillars. Small changes in a gear will make a big impact.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2519	Politics is about prioritizing. With this budget, the government clearly shows that we give priority to health and care, and we give priority to patients who need it the most. The government has a vision of creating patients' health services, where patients' needs are at the centre. The cooperation parties Right, Advance Party, Christian People's Party and Left have reached a budgetary settlement with a clear social profile. In the state budget, we raise the health field, and in the health budget, we raise the patients who have been sitting at the bottom of the table. We have a significant commitment to the hospitals. We create space for more diversity. It shall reduce waiting times. It's a total of 2.7 billion. kr. Increases in patient treatment of 2.6 pst are added. – the highest budgeted activity growth ever. This growth should benefit all patient groups. It includes drug treatment, mental health protection, rehabilitation and somatic treatment. In the health care system, too many people wait unnecessarily long for absolutely necessary treatment. In particular, one patient group should be brought forward and it is the drug addicts. Here we want action both in the short and long term. The government's wish is a escalating plan for the drug field. There is a need to step up early efforts, multi-disciplinary specialised treatment and good aftercare and follow-up in municipalities. For 2014, we will increase the capacity of the care services by about 200 places purchased by non-profit institutions, as proposed by the cooperation parties in the election campaign. Several places mean better and faster help to more people, and we know that treatment works. In recent years during the last government, there has been a growing concern that long-term treatment of drug addicts was a priority. The growth in 2014 should therefore also apply in particular to precisely long-term locations. This is in addition to increasing the funding for health regions by 300 million. kr compared to the outgoing government. 255 million. are earmarked for the private use of drugs, mental health protection and rehabilitation, just to reduce unnecessary waiting. We also need to reintroduce what the previous government has removed, first of all, the golden rule in the health care system that drugs and mental health alone should have a stronger growth than somatic in health regions. Growth shall be measured by changes in costs, waiting time and activity. Secondly, the ring mark is 343 million. SEK for the fights in the municipalities, because in 2013, during a period when we knew that the fights in the municipalities were vulnerable, the outgoing government chose to remove this. These changes made by the new government clearly show one thing: Norway has now received a government giving priority to the drug field. We have a vision of creating the patient's health care system, a health care system that is there when the patient needs it, which provides good quality in all parts, where the different parts fail due to weak joints. The growth of specialist healthcare is record-breaking, so activity can increase and waiting time decreases. Capacity is increased in the care service, and we provide a level of competence in the municipalities. But what I'm most proud of is that we have now received a government that shows that one is able to give priority to helping those people who are struggling with drug addiction, who have been sitting at the bottom of the table for too long.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2540	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2543	In my opinion, the government does not make significant changes related to the hospital facility that the Stoltenberg II government presented. It is positive, but it is in stark contrast to many of the claims of the Right in the election campaign on the Health Policy of the Workers' Party. Höie is now retreating on a number of Høre's health promises from the election campaign – at the latest yesterday, when the requested independent review of the capital process was cancelled. Höie says that he prioritises health in the budget, and therefore I have the following questions for him: Minister of Finance Siv Jensen has had an impact on large tax reliefs. $8,000 million. Norwegian taxes and charges will be cut next year, while public hospitals will have received 0 – 0 – 0 – in increase. How does the Minister for Health defend such a priority?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2550	We have been through an election campaign where the Workers' Party has had one message to the voters, namely that the Right and the Advance Party's promises to implement reductions in taxes and taxes would lead to welfare cuts. The voters have now received an answer to the Workers' Party's claims. This government is able to implement both the necessary tax and tax cuts – which help to speed up the economy, which provide the basis for the value creation that will finance the welfare of the future – and at the same time give greater priority to better well-being and, not least, to give priority to those who sit at the bottom of the table, which the outgoing government has not been able to do – namely to lift the addicts, both in the municipalities and in the specialist health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2555	I find that the Minister of Health does not answer my question. His problem is that what he says is an increase in the health budgets – i.e. not welfare cuts – he has inherited from the Stoltenberg government. But when he himself, along with the government, was going to set up a budget, he chose to spend $8,000 million. kr for tax cuts – and not a single additional crown to increase the treatment capacity of public hospitals. The 300 million. kr as Höie refers to – to increased capacity in the area of intoxication, psychiatry, rehabilitation, MR – is excellent and is supported by the red-greens, except that we think it is a bit funny that it should be earmarked for the private. It should rather go where it has the most effect. I repeat the question: when you are a minister of health in a government and get 4 billion extra oil crowns – increased budget space, why do you prioritize 8 000 million? kr for tax cuts and not a single additional crown for public hospitals to expand capacity?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2562	The budget adopted today by the Stortinget contains the largest budgeted growth in the public hospital budgets ever adopted by the Stortinget. In addition, we increase the use of the free capacity of private individuals to reduce unnecessary waiting. The voters have chosen a majority in this room, which is actually concerned that patients are getting help faster and using private and private ideas. Fortunately, therefore, one has had a shift, which gives results, namely that one is not so concerned about where the patient is being treated, but that the patient is being treated. The voters have also chosen a government that has been concerned with the importance of reducing tax and tax levels to ensure future value creation, which is also the basis for future well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2575	We have a long tradition in Norway that there were non-governmental organizations and the Church that saw the need. They started treatment for vulnerable people, health centres, hospitals, drug addicts, and not least psychiatric patients. We are pleased with the agreement with the government where we are going to assess the framework conditions of the non-profit organisations, which are also providing fantastic health services today, but it is vital for them to get prompt treatment, not least in view of the pension challenge, so that they do not go bankrupt and we stand without the tools to help all those whom the minister talked about – addicts and the psychiatric patients in our society. So how will the Council of State do this to improve the framework conditions for voluntary and non-profit organisations?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2580	Firstly, I fully agree with the description of history, namely that much of the well-being we take for granted today, as public funding, started as the initiative of NPISHs. I don't think that story is over. I think the ideal institutions and organizations will also in the future go ahead and show the way in areas where today's public does not solve the problems. One of these areas is within the budgetary agreement between the government parties and the Christian People's Party and the Left, namely increased support for the organisation for the relief of dying children. This is an area where the public is failing today, but where private and ideals go ahead and show way. We have already included in the budget increased use of private ideals, and then, of course, I am going to follow up this Roman number decision taken today, that we are going to seek every opportunity to look at and solve the challenges that ideals have in pension matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2587	Local hospitals create strong feelings and commitment. There are local hospitals all around Norway, and we all know how strong it is when you meet local hospital activists. Bent Höie as a staging representative was an active man and met many local hospital activists, among others. in my home country, where the representative Höie was on July 11th. He was very clear in his speech and said that now one needs peace around Kongsvinger Hospital, that it is hopeless that every year there is a discussion about functions and about the future of Kongsvinger Hospital. State Council Höie can be equally clear in its guarantees, e.g. in the case of Kongsvinger Hospital, which he was a representative just before the election?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2597	The government's platform says that the emergency or food supply should not be shut down unless this is justified in terms of patient safety and quality, and I intend to follow that up. There is also a clear message to health regions that this is the policy of this government, because we believe that this kind of change should now be anchored in the work that we have now begun linked to the new national health and hospital plan. There I see that the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left – and the Center Party – have agreed that there is a need for a more operational national health and hospital plan, anchored here in Stortinget, so that one ensures a more democratic anchoring of some of these important issues that are felt as crucial in many local environments. I haven't stopped meeting people who are engaged in their local hospitals. I met with the rapporteurs yesterday, and I have met with the rapporteurs today, and I have been meeting with the rapporteurs almost every week on these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2604	What I expect is that the government and we agree on is to bring down the health cows, but if we are to succeed in that, we need to use a number of instruments, and not least we need to get the free choice of hospitals to work. Today, we are struggling with a system that is rarely up-to-date, which means that the waiting time for the different hospitals and the internet portal fritsyshusval.no does not work as intended. As a result, I have been away from a lot of double work, and the information for patients is too poor. Therefore, in the position we are currently dealing with, the left has been asked to make Free Hospital Choice a separate independent enterprise, to strengthen the information work and to complete today's specialty in order to use the option. Is this something that the Council of State now wants to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2611	The government will follow up the cooperation agreement between the Right, the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party and the Left, which says to introduce free treatment choices. There will be a significant strengthening of patients’ rights, where patients will also be given the opportunity to choose treatment from authorised private operators, including those who have won tenders from public health regions. At the same time, it is also clear that the system of free hospital choice needs to be continuously improved, and if that is the case at what the Left believes we should follow up, I would like to be in closer dialogue on it. It is important that this system works well along the way, but not least even after we have introduced free treatment choices.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2618	I listened with interest to the Minister of Health, who told me that he is not concerned about where, but that patients are being treated. There are things in this budget that indicate that the government has a somewhat different approach than that. We all agree that it is wise to make use of the resources and available capacity available, and the government will spend 45 million in the budget. kr to purchase MR studies from private radiological establishments. It should then be assumed that the public capacity was first checked and fully exploited, but when we asked the finance minister if the public capacity had been exhausted, it turned out that the government did not know if there was free public capacity. What is the reason why the government chooses to grant money to use private operators without first checking whether the public has the opportunity to do the job?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2627	It is because patients have learned that there is not enough public availability and capacity for MR studies. I believe that the representative Lysbakken, as a member of the Health and Care Committee, has also heard many times. Patients are told that there are contracts with private individuals, and they can be selected, but they experience that the waiting time there is almost as long as in the public sector, when they are contacted. Then you are told that you can have a shorter waiting time if you pay yourself, because you have free capacity, but not within the limits that the public has decided. This government wants to do something about it. That's why we're giving $45 million. kr to expand those frameworks, so that fewer patients will experience that when they contact a private X-ray institute that has an agreement with the public, they will get the answer: Well, if you want quick help, you have to pay yourself. It leads to a social distinction in health that we want to combat.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2634	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2637	The transport area is a bet area for the government. We promised that in the Declaration of Government, and we are starting to implement it in the budget. I'm very happy to see that we also have a very good budgetary settlement at the bottom, which strengthens it further. What's also very pleasant is that the government provides a comprehensive transport policy, where we also include ports and broadband. That means that when we work in the future, we can plan more comprehensively. We get all the actors involved into the same department, over the same table, and so the dialogue, the good ideas and the fine solutions go better in the future. It's a good growth in the budget compared to the current year. You're going to give praise to the red-green government that it was a growth, and then the new government has put on additional money, and even more came into the budget agreement on the Stortinget. This shows that the Stortinge has regained its good role when there are actually increases and changes in the budget – as opposed to the current year, when this debate was about 30 million. kr i change. Now the Storting actually has a role again. That's good. This means that there is more money on the road, rail, public transport and walking and cycling paths than it has been before. It's also possible to bet on broadband better than before. Despite the fact that there is more money, we should also remember that in relation to the NTP, the national transport plan, to which the Stortinget committed itself before the summer, we are already in deficit. The starting point from the red-green was too bad. We take a lot again, but not everything. That means that there is a need for further efforts in the future, if we are to achieve the goals of the Stortinge this summer. The budget is more focused on investment, more on new road projects and more on extra rail. I am very pleased that the Stortinget has said that it should build the intercity sections and plan them all the way to the end, and that you should have a full bet on it. It's been missing before. Now it gets into place, and it's very good. Even in a week, I'm going to Sweden to talk to the Swedish authorities about railway operations on their side, to see what plans they have, so that we can also see Norwegian railways beyond Norway's borders in the long term. Maintenance has unfortunately been down-priority. Now there is a good boost in the budgetary agreement and in the new government's draft budget – both on the road and by rail. There are no areas where you can invest more quickly in infrastructure than where you have already built it. Then you get rid of control plans, basic acquisition processes, etc. You can start building on what you have. That's also what the freight industry says is the most important thing. If we're going to get more goods on the track, we have to make sure that the railway we have works and is predictable, because then the customers come. I invite for further good cooperation to realise the obligations in the national transport plan, and I hope that we get a good level of business. I'm a little stunned at the level of some in the opposition, when the new government has said that we should over-comply with the national transport plan, while outwardly it is interpreted as delaying things. Over-fulfilling, at least for me, is about speeding things up – not postponing them. But good transport policy is about more than money. It is also about systems and how we organise them. As a government council, it has been very exciting to see a department that has not been affected by paralysis and old-fashioned thinking, but which on the contrary has been affected by the desire for innovation, but where reports and proposals have unfortunately been put in drawers and dust. We have opened the drawers, we brush the dust and look at how we can reorganize the road sector and the rail sector in line with what the government has also said should be sensible, in order to build more roads and railways faster and cheaper. That is why there is a work going on to organise a separate investment company for the road. This is why there is work going on looking at the roles of the Railway Works and the NSB. And we're doing the job that Stortinget has asked about the intercity triangle. We have also begun to work on establishing a separate infrastructure fund that provides more predictable financing for future infrastructure development. Good infrastructure is important in order to achieve both an overall housing market and a good labour market. That is why I am delighted that the Ministry of Local Affairs is re-prioritizing and betting more on county roads. It preserves existing business locally. We're improving the compensation system for the counties, so they can invest more at their own expense. It will delight local business.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2667	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2670	Here there is less money for fishing ports, and the government's proposal for a cut of 46 million. As an immediate consequence, the recovery of fishing ports at Napp in Flakstad in Nordland and on Sommarøy in Tromsø does not start in 2014. This has direct consequences for the fishing fleet and the companies in these ports. The fact that investments in these ports are now at best delayed also means that other important port extensions along our coast are now being put on hold, and that they are then moving even further behind to be realised. In the adopted NTP and in the short sea shipping strategy, it is set at 3 billion. kr for strengthening maritime transport and ports. Why is it that brings back 46 million? kr for investments in fishing ports now pending the development of a national port strategy?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2679	If one reads the case papers, one sees why this happens. It's because we're going to have a national port strategy, and then it wouldn't make sense if you started investing in a project that would be incorrectly dimensioned in relation to the strategy you choose to have. In order not to throw money out of the window, we choose to wait on the two projects that one made up, precisely because we can come back and make sure that they are built in line with the strategy that one will end up with. But it takes a little more than six weeks to make such a strategy, so we have to get back to Stortinget as soon as possible. But you don't have to spend money on things when you don't know how to do it in the end.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2684	One of the most important transport projects in the metropolitan area is the construction of the Fornebuban. So far it has been planned that the track will start in 2018. These were the four bourgeois party leaders not satisfied with and, on the summer, they had a powerful show in the national media and the local media where they said that if there was a civil majority, the Fornebuban was to be started right away – in fact, in the newspaper's essay. Today we can read in Budstikka that the Minister of Transport says that he cannot promise a path until 2018, that is to say, contrary to what was said half a year ago. I understand that the Progress Party cannot get through on everything, but this is a matter where all four parties agree, and so they went out and promised the voters in Asker and Bærum that if they won the election, they would start with the Fornebuban immediately. My question is, what has happened in the last six months that makes the Minister of Transport today say something different than what was said six months ago?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2694	It's good to get this opportunity to say that you have to listen to what's being said, and not just read what's in the papers. This government will work to get the Fornebuban in place as soon as possible. That is also in line with the promise. Unlike the red-green government, which would not promise that they would contribute to the financing, the bourgeois parties promised that they would finance half of the investments. It never promised the red-greens. They wouldn't. It also appears in the national transport plan. Maybe the red-green would. The bourgeois promised. We're standing by that promise. I have today received a happy information from the capital that they are ahead of their planning processes. That means they're aiming to be finished in 2015. Then we can implement this significantly faster than the Oslopackak 3 provided, but I cannot say exactly what date it was. It was the same thing I said to Budstikka, but it interpreted them as an opportunity for delay. In fact, it will be accelerated. The state wants to take half of it. It never promised the red-greens. So you get the Fornebuban in place faster with today's government than with the previous government, and I'm glad.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2701	We have received an offensive draft budget in the field of transport. Through a budgetary settlement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, we have also made a strengthened Transnova. The transport sector is responsible for significant emissions and there is a great need for more environmentally friendly vehicles. The sale of electric cars has had a nice increase. What we need now is a national strategy and action plans that allow us to achieve a comprehensive infrastructure that can take this investment further, with multiple charging stations for electric cars and more environmentally friendly fuels. With next year's allocation in place and other instruments available, can the Council of State promise that we will now have a national strategy that can deliver concrete results in this area? When, if any, will we be able to see the results of such a bet?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2710	I would like to thank the Christian People's Party and the Left for a good budgetary settlement. This means that we can bet more on the road, rail and transnova than the previous government did. We have already met parts of the electric car industry and parts of the car industry in total, just to discuss how we can strengthen the investment in environmentally friendly cars, including electric cars – not least electric cars get a say – while the industry participates in developing value chains that make the state not finally the one that somehow becomes the modern petrol station owner or electric fuel owner, but that it becomes value chains that commercial operators themselves are behind. I am very pleased with the signals I get from the industry, which more now than before shows the willingness to take that responsibility. Then it is important that we, on the part of the authorities, deal with Transnova, but that the industry, on its part, also make a clearer commitment. Then we must have a strategy, and we will discuss it with Stortinget when it is natural, but as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2717	I'm going to start by doing something as unusual as giving praise to the government. I am pleased that the implementation of the Data Storage Directive has been postponed, for the last few months the detection of increasing surveillance has been massive. Since the decision in Stortinget, there has also been more legal doubt about the durability. Denmark, which has started data storage, may indicate poor experience. In other words, there is a need to put a foot in the ground. Clearly, it is legitimate to re-combat Storting's decision on the postal directive and ostetoll. I therefore have to ask the Minister for Transport why it is not legitimate then to re-fight data storage – on the background to which I referred – when I also know that the Minister has agreed with several of the parties in Stortinget to be restrictive about data storage.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2724	The Data Storage Directive was adopted under the previous government. The majority who adopted it were the Workers' Party and the Right. That majority was strengthened in previous elections. If you're going to rematch, it's natural that you have a chance to reverse the majority. As of today, I do not see that neither the Right Party nor the Workers' Party have turned this case around, and then it would be completely pointless for a government council to try to take a rematch in a collapse that wants the opposite of the Council of State. Then one must only respect the rules of democracy and say that one implements what the majority believes, even if one in that case is against. This is now the time to deal with legal acts in the EU. We are following this very closely, because we are going to learn from the experiences of other countries, the conflicts that are in other countries, so that we do not implement a data storage directive in Norway that leads to the same problems. We're going to follow it very closely. I guess all the parties at Stortinget follow it closely, and when things start to calm down in the EU and we're going to start distributing costs in Norway to start implementing it, you'll see if there's a need to make changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2731	If I heard correctly and understood the Council of State correctly, the Council of State rejects the delay announced in Budstikka today, where it is said that there may be a delay, and that the development of Fornebubanen will not take place until after 2018. Then it means that the guarantee given by the four party leaders is: a change of government means the expansion of the Fornebuban, the parties promise 50 pst. State funding, development shall be organised in its own company and shall start as soon as possible. If there is a misunderstanding that there may be a delay, the Council of State now has the opportunity to clarify this. If it is not a misunderstanding, and the Council of State is determined by what he said a few minutes ago, I would rather take the opportunity to ask another question. The state councils have now received notification through this road company, which was notified on the platform that the government parties arrived at. When can we see a similar company set up for the railway?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2738	It was very nice that the representative read about exactly what the citizens agreed on: implement the Fornebubanen as quickly as possible, own company and state guarantee for half of the costs. That was the promise. Then I record that some of the opposition parties are trying to give the impression that something else was promised. It didn't. What we're doing is keeping the promise to pay half and do it as fast as possible, but as I said, I'm very happy when Oslo signals that they're ahead of form. Then there is no reason to fear that there will be delays – rather on the contrary – one can do it faster than the one that put it up for. The important thing here is that when this debate went on in ours, the red-greens wouldn't commit to funding. That is what the bourgeois did, and we stand by it, both the Party of Advancement, the Right Party, the Left Party, and the Christian Party, and I am pleased with that. As far as the road company is concerned, it's working on it, and we're aiming to do the same thing on the railway, because it's a sensible way to organise it, and it's also meant to be before the government change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2745	Nothing would please me more than if we could manage to get to Fornebubanen completed as quickly as possible and started during this period. If the Minister of Transport can guarantee that there will be money on the table to finance this when it is ready for start-up and finished regulated by the two municipalities – in line with the promises given – it would be good to confirm it here today. But I have followed what the Minister for Transport said – namely, to look at what the four party leaders said in the election campaign, not just read what is in the paper. There it was said by the four party leaders that one could start building the track already now and be finished in a five-six-year perspective – while the Minister of Transport is now unable to promise that they will start running until 2018. Does the Minister for Transport understand that this can be seen as a electoral fraud?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2750	In ours, SV wouldn't help to commit to funding the Fornebuban. One said that there was something you could negotiate into an urban environment agreement, but there was nothing the red-green would commit to. The bourgeois parties committed themselves to it. We're standing by the promise. I am very happy that SV will now hunt the government for it to carry out its promise, but it is therefore much more offensive than the SV would ever commit to. That is one thing – in terms of the agreement, it is very clear. It was written. What Eidsvoll Holmås refers to was an oral comment from the leader of the Christian People's Party. What a written commitment was made to was as soon as possible. It wasn't all the four party leaders who said what the representative claimed, it was one who said it. I'm dealing with what was promised: we're going to do it as soon as possible. Now it seems that one will be done with the plan in 2015. It's faster than what the red-greens had suggested, too, and then we should cheer instead of drifting with tile nailing.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2755	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2758	The government will build the country to ensure future value creation and competitiveness. The voters have wanted new solutions to the challenges we face. Through the draft government budget for 2014, the government has started this job. Together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, the Right Party and the Progress Party will put forward a policy in which innovation, modernisation and investment in future infrastructure will be central. For the last eight years, Norway has had an economic space most of us can envy. Nevertheless, we now see clear signs that growth in the Norwegian economy has slowed down somewhat. Competitiveness has deteriorated, and the two-wayness of the Norwegian economy is clearer than ever. In this particular situation, it is important that we give proper priority – that we focus on education, on research and development, on growth-promoting tax incentives and on a modern and forward-looking infrastructure. In this way, we can facilitate increased competitiveness, secure jobs and a sustainable welfare model, not only for ourselves, but also for future generations. Transport challenges are not just about spending billions of dollars, they're about a simpler everyday life for most people. This government will ensure faster development of road and collective services – already in the budget for 2014 we see a marked increase compared to the red-green scheme – and we have a government that will take on new instruments, new ways to organise the transport sector. It is therefore particularly gratifying that we will start building a separate infrastructure fund already in the 2014 budget. This will be an important tool to ensure a clear prioritisation of infrastructure in the coming years. In addition, a separate road carrier shall be established. It may be the most important instrument to create more predictability, greater degree of holisticity and, above all, to contribute to faster planning processes. The budget is not just about money, it is also about using the toolbox that actually exists. In the 2014 budget priorities, it has been particularly important to increase efforts on maintenance, both on the road and on the road. Good and adequate maintenance is a good investment in accessibility, road safety and punctuality. The maintenance run has built up over many years, and it is a formidable job to reduce it, but with the budget proposal we have for 2014, we have taken a long step in the right direction. The investment on the railway is the largest in many years. It has been absolutely necessary to increase the rate of investment in the railway structure, and in cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left we have increased the maintenance resources for this sector. But there is also a need for innovation in this area. It is therefore necessary to carry out a review of the organisation of the rail sector, which the Minister for Transport had just mentioned, and it is time to re-examine good proposals for the competitive deployment of important sections of the road. Much of the road infrastructure was transferred to county municipalities through the administrative reform in 2010 — including a large maintenance set-up. The county councils are dependent on the provision of funds to solve this task. It was therefore necessary to strengthen the framework for this purpose in addition to the red-green proposal, and perhaps even more important: to continue the interest-rate compensation scheme with a framework of 2 billion. kr annually, which the previous government wanted to liquidate. Finally, I want to focus on the increase in government's investment in planning. If we are to have a change of pace and an increase in investment on both the road and the track, it is absolutely vital that the projects are planned, and that they are ready to be realized when the funds are made available. At the same time, we can't have the plans going out before you finish – the planning time has to go down. I want to draw attention to the fact that we have a lot to take back, and the job has just started.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2778	Norwegian society is changing rapidly. The question is which direction of change the government wants to facilitate. European Minister Vidar Helgesen from the Right said in his statement on important EU and EEA issues in the United Kingdom on 21 November: ‘No international actor affects Norway more than the EU. Norwegian foreign policy is beginning in Europe, but it is also doing more and more of Norwegian domestic policy.’ I understand the whole of the presentation of the Council of States so that this influence is good, and the wish of the Right Party Party government. This is clarifying and politically honest. As the president of the Central Party, I am not surprised at where the dark blue government has its leading star. Norway is therefore facing increased organisation of EU policies and increased influence from EU bodies if the Christian People's Party and the Left, collectively or individually, wish to do so in the wider social change process in Norway. These are the big lines that the Left and Christian People's Party must clarify in the debate next Thursday. The Government, at the Right and the Advance Party, will thereby place less emphasis on Norwegian conditions, in favour of decisions in EU bodies and related legislation. Norway will become more EU-like. Another country in Norway, which is not seaworthy enough, is not the Right View. The Cohesion Norway of the EU opponent shall be further amended to Market Norway. In many EU countries, the state debt crisis is developing and is entering increasingly demanding stages of increasing social and political unrest. Very high unemployment rates and increasing differences between people give rise to a negative social development, from the point of view of us working for Cohesion Norway. The EU system of free movement of goods, services, capital and labour promotes the interests of the most economically strong. Today — about ten years after the introduction of the single currency, the euro, and later eastward enlargement by 12 countries in 2004 and 2007 — we also experience in Norway the consequences of the free-flow ideology of the EEA Agreement more clearly and clearly. Norwegian working life is becoming more and more uncertain, and payments for work are getting relatively poorer for those who are doing the actual production and services – this is due to a wide range of skilled and cheap Eastern European labour force that reduces prices. With the government's line of adjustment to Union policies, the uncertainty of the labour market will continue to reach new occupational groups. This is the reality of the many work ants that carry out the job in Norway. They do the job, they don't project it. The performers do not have the Norwegian language or social knowledge as a border guard. They experience increasing competition from people who want to work very cheaply. The government says on page 16 of the financial position – in its main remark under employment policy: ‘These members indicate that a well-functioning labour market is essential for each one to realise its dreams and ambitions and that it is worth working.’ No one should disagree with this. But it requires that employment is regulated, so that there is fair competition, and that market forces are corrected, so that one can live on normal, full employment. Embarrassing relations between people in Norway are the result of ongoing political debate and decisions. The fight against economic liberalism was won for the first time in 1935, through the crisis settlement between the Bond Party and the Workers' Party, when the Council of State Håkon Five, representative of liberalism, had to leave. The Norwegian tradition of jealous relations between peoples, on the basis of doing their duty and demanding their right to work, is now confusing to the benefit of the EU’s four market freedoms. This is a negative development to which many lose — first value-conservative managers wanting to train as well as to employ employees in fixed, long-term employment. These companies are being out of competition today. So many sea-going traders in primary industries, industry, crafts and commerce – these are being out of competition today. And secondly, skilled skilled workers in the production and provision of services who have trained themselves within what they are interested in and capable of, and to which society needs to build the country. Many of these are competing today. It is important that working life works, so that you are respected in your work. It gives you the feeling of seas. It is important that Norway, in the transition facing it, acquires a more versatile business life — based on renewable natural resources and strong professional organisation of the labour market, both for maritime workers and for employees — and re-establishes the instruments of the nation-state so that it can correct and limit the movement of different goods across borders.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2808	Before the election, the right hand parts had a solution to almost everything – for everyone. Most of this country was out of control and had to be corrected by someone with ‘implementation’ power. Now things take time – a long time, we'll hear. Something is parked, and it is not so bad with Norway either. For a retreat! It announced and highly profiled the reform of the health business model, for example, now appears to end with the government throwing politicians out of corporate governance. Is this the new idea? The meeting of the great words with reality was obviously demanding. Is there also a number of important areas of society where the government sees that policy, at least at local and regional level, should abdicate? I ask – and I hope to get an answer. In my homelands, the boom is going back and forth. 4 at the Breiskellen will be removed on 1 February. It was promised Secretary of State Bård Hoksrud and the staging representative Morten Ørsal Johansen proudly last week. It is part of the story that the bomb was going away to Easter anyway. But the Easter comes a little late this year – the two of them from the Advance Party will have it. The fact that the dismantling takes place a few weeks earlier than planned is fine for me, but I imagine that those who voted in the Advance Party had expected something more. Some may even have imagined that the said gentlemen, with all their bomb guarantees, would make sure that the whole rv. 4, when it passes over Hadeland, it becomes bomb-free – at least they would signal that they would work hard to get it done. But it's not with voters like it's with customers in an electroshop. Selectors do not have 30 days to undo. If most people don't become budget winners with a blue-blue government, at least the small minority, the one with millions of income, tax cuts, so it monks. It is for this purpose that the government increases the use of oil money and thereby exerts pressure on interest rates and exchange rates, with the danger this poses for Norwegian jobs. No one in the Financial Committee's budget hearing has been more obvious than LO that we must not spend more oil money. That's because they fear the jobs of their members. Today, the NHO reports that companies are struggling with a high cost level. Then the solution is not to spend more oil money, as the government does. In the Right and Advance Party, tax cuts are ahead of everything. Here the blue-blue government knows very well what it wants. It does that when it comes to going to drastic cuts in the instruments that are so important to District Norway. It is not only the districts that are affected, but also the nation, when one does not intend to organize offensives for value creation and development throughout the country, as the red-green government did and did. What the government really wants, it looks like it's been jerking off. 430 million. kr to carry out regional development work in those parts of the country that really need it disappears. I fear that this is just the beginning, that the whole arrangement will be terminated. If anyone can calm me down about this tonight, it will be very nice. Many will be busy getting answers to just that. The fact that some of the regional development funds removed from the county are redisposed to county roads is of little consolation. Local communities and regions that lose development funds, or lose for such funds, in any case, for road vehicles are distributed in a completely different way – geographically and between counties. It does not improve the situation that agriculture is also affected by cuts in instruments and programmes such as: shall stimulate recruitment, innovation and safe food. The income of the farmers is also affected by tax tightening as a result of the removal of the inheritance tax. Fortunately, next year, the financial structure of the municipalities will be in line with what the red-green government proposed, with a necessary addition – which we have always supported – based on new estimates of wage and price developments. I am glad that this time there is a red-green budget at the bottom in terms of the local government sector. Then it remains to be seen what happens to the municipal budget frameworks when the right parties are going to fulfill their really big tax promises. In any case, they have clearly indicated that tax revenue will become more important in the local economy. As a result, framework transfers will be reduced accordingly. The municipalities should become more tax-dependent, such as the government, with Erna Solberg at the head, becoming more oil dependent. In this area, too, there will be less redistribution. For example, municipalities have very different assumptions to obtain income through tax. In the end, what is done in the field of drugs impresses me little. There is a great bureaucracy and little predictability. I ask, are there other areas that the government intends to designate, because it does not have enough confidence in municipal priorities? When it comes to prioritizing what is important, the government does not set a good example. It's not a model.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2829	One of the most important tasks of a government is to pursue a policy that triggers commitment, creativity and value creation, and that this is done from a generation perspective. The value creation forms the basis for a continued well-functioning welfare offer for all of us. The changes made by the right-hand party government to the budget of the previous government show a clear direction and strengthen active involvement and involvement for a better everyday life. The ability to give priority to a very hectic budgetary process now demonstrated by the government is a matter of respect. In particular, I want to commend the grips that make society more built from below, that power is decentralized, and that people are now put in front of systems. We often experience individuals who do not get the help they need, people who are obviously in the target group for action The Storting has established, telling us that the system has taken over and that the possibility of individuals is being reduced. The red-green government's instrument has been increased regulation management and focus on allocation in dollars and ears. From the outset, the new government has been committed to following the impact of the policy. Lack of follow-up of children in child protection is an example of a serious warning that we do not meet. The provision of care, security and trust to those who need to experience care has huge gaps, and the challenge has been notified over a longer period of time. In particular, it has been pointed out that too many young people in child protection are not doing the most important thing to get them out of a often bad circle: an education, as a basis for mastering and further study. An extremely good and targeted measure is therefore the increased efforts of the government to ensure that children in the care of children receive education tailored to their challenges and needs, and that through this we can provide more than one completed schooling and increased opportunities throughout life. I also notice that the Central Party, SV and the Workers' Party on the way out of the government offices and in the debates afterwards have remained in the same track as what they had for eight years in government, and only have attention to quantity and technical solutions. It may be called consistent and good enough for us, but when the municipalities thank us for stopping two babysittings now, and when the Educational Association supports us in the same way, they might want to stop and look at the reasons before they fire. Municipalities are aware that they will not be able to establish enough new places of good quality to ensure such admissions now. In addition, they are very aware and concerned about the large annual cost of SEK 1.7 billion. kr, which is probably the reason why a majority government has not done so before. The Education Association has a concern similar to that of the municipalities and the government. First, we need to ensure the quality and get enough staff with the right education. Kindergartens are an important venue for a good start and good development for very many children. The lack of qualified staff is great, and the private kindergartens have had problems with the lack of predictability. The government dares to prioritize this quality building and has strengthened the building of competences in the kindergarten by a further 10 million. kr, and the private kindergartens have received increased non-discrimination. The Right Party and the Advance Party will also work for more flexible childcare facilities. Some municipalities today have censuses that give in principle a continuous recording, some have only one recording, and most have arrangements in the middle of it. The essential factor for the extension of the rights is that this should not be at the expense of the quality of the offer. This government maintains quality as the decisive criterion for the further development of the nursery provision. Finally, I would like to point out that the government also makes clear and important steps in cultural policy. After years of technical leadership from the red-green government, which can give the impression of growing interest in culture, the evaluation shows that culture has fallen. Can't that be the goal? Now that we've got some insights and we see that the increases in recent years have been made possible by bringing new institutions into the account, we're not surprised by the results. The government dares to put its foot down and will systematically evaluate and target the use of grants. The point is not the percentage or the sum, but that the resources that we provide trigger increased cultural effort and use. Our new gift-enhancing system is an important tool to give more power to the practitioners and well anchored for cultural and cultural activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2848	It is a historically good budget for justice that the government is promoting. Never before has more money been spent on this budget area. However, it is not that this budget is well alone and alone because you spend a lot of money, but it is a good budget for justice when you look at direction and priorities. In eight we have had a red-green government that has not been possible to get wise. What have they wanted to prioritize? Was it the victim or the criminal one’s priority? Should more prison sites be built, or should there be more at home? The housing queue grew — where did the measures become? Why were almost no foreign criminals sent to restitution in the home country? Where were the concrete proposals all about strengthening preparedness after strong criticism in the Gjørv Commission's report? Now we have a powerful government – a government that, together with our cooperation parties in the Stortinget, is able to take justice policy further, a powerful government that now wants to reverse the negative development in terms of pay queues. As a result, the budget is allocated to several places in prison and more non-Norwegian citizens are assigned to zones in their country of origin. The budget also facilitates double rooms in prison where this is possible. This means that we are going from a marked increase in the number of queues to a reduction in the queue and the availability of more detention places, so that we can experience less in the future that criminals who are going to be in prison are instead released. The budget also significantly strengthens the maintenance of our prisons, which will ensure the safety of our employees at the institutions of criminal law. The police are getting the budget of the times – a huge increase in order for the police to do their job. Newly trained police officers should be able to be offered a job. Several tasks the police carry out today are to be left to others, so that we get more policemen out in the streets, and that they can concentrate on doing the job that we all want them to do, namely to ensure the security of the citizens. The budget provides a significant boost in the number of new police posts. This is absolutely necessary when we look at the crime scene. In the capital, we've been reminded over the last few weeks of how important it is with the presence of the police. A visible police force in the city image will provide security, and more police officers will be able to defeat crime in the areas we are experiencing has grown under the previous government. Today's government shows the power of action in a few weeks to think anew about the police. The Courts are strengthened in the budget, in order to ensure consistency in the criminal procedure. When police and criminal services are strengthened, it is equally important that budgetary resources be given to recruit more judges and get away from the range of cases in our courts. In the field of justice, we now see a strong increase in the effort to transport people who do not have a legal stay. Norway shall not be a port of refuge. Norway shall be a safe and secure place for its residents and those who have been accommodated. People who have been denied their applications are going out. Since many do not travel on a voluntary basis, it is great that the government is now saying clearly that this work is to be intensified. This will also be a clear signal to all those who commit crime in this country and who do not have a residence. Enough is enough. We don't want such states. In the short time available to the government, it is therefore admirable that there have been so many more shipments in the coming and current years. When all of this is mentioned, let me then address the perhaps most important issue in the field of justice: preparedness. Unfortunately, we have seen how wrong it can be when emergency work has not been prioritised. Despite the promises of the previous government, it has not been significantly better. We remember all the statements made by the chief of the security force in the police department, which earlier this year could say that it had happened very little in the last two years. Then it is good that we have replaced the government that has not taken the emergency work seriously. The right-hand Party Government has already taken action: preparedness must be strengthened. The Government has put forward proposals for strengthening civil defence, the 24-hour civil situation centre of the Ministry of Justice and Defence, increased allocation to the Central Rescue Centre, strengthening the Kripos and the PST as well as increased emergency personnel. This is in addition to the strong increase in police forces and will clearly contribute to strengthening society’s preparedness. The Progress Party is quite clear that preparedness in Norway needs to be strengthened, the basic staffing of the police increased and the coherence of the criminal justice chain prioritised. We now have a government that builds its policies on the need for security of the individual in everyday life – and that prioritises this. The Progress Party welcomes the shift we have now received in justice policy and looks forward to important initiatives and priorities in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2871	We have received a new government in Norway because the voters wanted a shift, but we have received a government with the Progress Party because the Left and Christian People's Party have changed their views on the Progress Party. While the message in 2009 was Jens rather than Jensen, the message in this election was different. Now there was a change of government regardless of the first priority – it had been unimaginable in the past. Now the Christian People's Party and the Left say about this budget that they have moved in billions now than in eight years. Yes, they have largely moved back the money as originally suggested by the red-green before the government change. They have got the money back for the pilgrimage, which was suggested by the red-greens, they have got the money back for the artists' tips, as suggested by the red-greens, and they got some of the money back for the press support, as was also suggested by us. The same is true of assistance – we proposed 1 pst., Right and Advance Party proposed to cut this target, then the Christian People's Party and Left negotiated back to the red-green level. Formally, they're right -- the Left and Christian People's Party has the credit for billions of transfers, but when it comes to moving back money that we originally proposed, this is, with influence, a truth with modifications. I think the government has to take into account that the Storting wants 1 pst. shall be assisted during this period. I hope neither the Christian People's Party nor the Left are satisfied with this political theater. I hope they're not satisfied that the government is proposing cutbacks so that they get the credit to move back billions, because politics is about real influence. I believe that the Christian People's Party should ask itself every day, "Has Jensen really given more influence than Jens? Is it really the case that this budget of billions of dollars in taxes lies closer to the Christian People's Party and the Left's heart than the red-green budget? A pointless cut that is currently undecided will remain after the agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party, is cut in the support of Norwegian artists so that they can participate in different international arenas. I believe this is important Norwegian profiling. It's about Norwegian writers at international literature festivals, Norwegian filmmakers at international film festivals, or Norwegian musicians participating in international arenas. This is about the view of modern Norway. If this cut to 25 pst. Keeping up means a lot about how Norway is perceived in the world. I'm glad that 1pst.--a seems to be saved in this budget, but at the same time I believe that Norway would have had a much stronger voice internationally if the government had dared to be clear that 1 pst. is the target. Then we would have had a weight in all international negotiations, where we want more countries to take responsibility for the world's aid, and there is no doubt that 1 pst. To assist is the wish of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2891	On 8 November, Minister of Finance Siv Jensen presented the supplementary proposal to the Stortinget and stated that through the negotiations we had before us, the budget could be even better. I feel that we have been given the negotiations with the Christian People's Party and the Left. As a representative of Telemark, I am particularly pleased that the proposed price floor in the CO2 compensation for industry has been removed. We have received a draft budget for the Sundvolden Declaration, stressing that the use of oil money should adapt the situation in the economy within the framework of the rules of action. Norway is going well -- most of us are doing well. The description of being born in Norway and being a Norwegian is like winning in Lotto – not just once, but up to several times – seems to be right. We have low unemployment and good welfare arrangements, but there is also cause for concern for the future. We see a trend towards increasing unemployment, especially among young people, and the growth in business costs has been offset by developments in our trading partners. We see that over a number of years real wages have increased faster than productivity. The amounts owed by municipalities and private households are large, and an increase in interest rates could give rise to major challenges in the municipal economy and in private households. It is also a concern that we see, of course, a two-part division of the Norwegian economy, where the mainland economy has challenges and wear. The draft budget seeks to stimulate growth in mainland Norway through measures such as: tax credits, removal of inheritance fees and increased support to enterprises receiving apprentices. With the draft budget, the government shows that it is serious about strengthening Norwegian business with good and sustainable framework conditions. The government is committed to ensuring Norwegian competitiveness in order to strengthen and secure jobs and Norwegian business, including: by proposing an increase in research and innovation on industrial rights in the budget. Here, the SkattenFUNN scheme is an important contribution that stimulates business to research and development, and the government proposes to extend the scheme in relation to what was in the original budget. Another area that is a priority in this draft budget is an increased commitment to transport. Here the government has great ambitions that are already reflected in this draft budget. Today, planning processes take too much time. I am pleased that this government will strengthen its planning efforts to ensure the planning of new transport measures that will allow faster investment rates in the future. It is also very gratifying that the county roads, which were a very poor gift from the state to the state, are given a significant boost through this draft budget, both through the grant and through the continuation of the interest compensation scheme for county roads. This will lead to better maintenance and renewal of the county roads. It is necessary to invest in infrastructure and acquire knowledge to increase our competitiveness. The Health Declaration puts forward a greater commitment to investment in knowledge and a stronger commitment to the most important resource in the school, namely the teacher, through a teacher lift. When Trond-Viggo Torgersen was a children's representative in the 1990s, he said that when you were born, you were given a scratch weight with three fields. In one field, it says ‘parents’ – it’s the most important thing. In the next field, it says ‘municipality’. What kind of provision does this municipality provide? And in the last field, it says "teacher". What is your teacher’s knowledge and competence? Yes, I also believe that the teacher is for the development and future of children. It is therefore gratifying that the proposal refers to a good stepping-up plan before the «Quality Competence» strategy for 2600 teachers. Right went to the elections to give Norway a civil government with new ideas and better solutions. After a few weeks of working with the State budget, we are happy to make changes that show a new direction. We are currently looking forward to working with the 2015 budget, which will increasingly address the fields of activity and the political projects proposed by the Government Party and the Cooperation Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2922	The government's budget for next year indicates a new direction and greater differences in our country. Those who have a lot will get more, while most people today can establish that the Right and the Advance Party's blushing election vows until they had a short shelf life date. A group that is systematically poor in this budget are the families of children. Right in the opposition said that our kindergarten ambitions were too puzzled. They made the choice that they would make sure that the municipalities would facilitate a continuous recording. In our budget for 2014, there was money to extend the right to children's playground and escalate against two admissions per year. When the budget for the Right and the Advance Party arrived, it turned out that what they thought was too little ambitious before the elections, was too ambitious after the elections. It's been very interesting, even today, to notice how the Right now talks about kindergartens. When the Prime Minister was in the spontaneous question hour a few weeks ago, she said that the Right had not promised two annual admissions. That's quite correct, because what was promised was both produced as and perceived as something finer and bigger, namely continuous recording. And not only that: in addition, the Right promised that a crew standard would be introduced. Now the right hand side runs in the opposite direction of the target. Both the Municipal Minister and the Right parliamentary leader have stated that it should be up to the municipalities to give priority – or not priority – to continuous inclusion. So their promise of continuous recording has been officially laid dead from the Grottingen pulpit. Our escalating towards two annual admissions is reversed, and through the budgetary agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party, a further 344 million were cut. kr in the nursery budget through the municipal income system. The reason for this is that more cash support makes fewer children need nursery facilities. This is a worrying development. Although there will be fewer children in a kindergarten — one, two, three, or more — it does not necessarily mean that fewer employees, fewer temporary workers or less maintenance are needed. The right promised more places and better quality. Now we get fewer places and probably worse quality because the Right Party and the Advance Party prioritise people with billions rather than the very least. This is unsocial, it's old-fashioned, and it's very clear lifting breaks. In many other areas, the break-up also goes on – we find them in central strokes, exemplified by Fornebubanen, and we find them not least in district policy. An example of this: when right-leader Erna Solberg was in opposition, she gave clear guarantees that there would be no reduction of the action zone for Nord-Troms and Finnmark. Then comes the budget, and now the Right Party and the Advance Party are cutting a central instrument in the action zone, namely the child-rescue supplement. Once again, the families of children have to pay the bill. Another red thread from the blue is systematic attacks on a policy of generating growth across the country. It is about the increased use of oil money, against which the export-oriented industry has warned, and which increases the vulnerability of export-dependent communities, while at the same time the restrictions on permitting legislation affect the same industries. At the top of that, regional development funds are also cut. Marine value creation programmes are cutting, and the whitefish industry is an industry with great challenges. It is announced that Saturday newspapers are going away in large parts of the country. It's the end of the new health archive on Tynset. It is cut in the Vorsenteret in Tromsø, which is a central part of the North Region bet. And when you want to streamline the Directorate of Finance, it's systematic in the smallest places it's cut. The government budget is a budget for major differences — between people, between parts of the country and between north and south. I am not surprised that a government from the Right and the Advance Party is creating uncertainty about Norway's ambitions in terms of assistance, and that they are proposing to reduce the number of quota refugees, but I am very surprised that the Christian People's Party and the Left support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2943	The right, the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left's common budget show that we are leading Norway in the right direction. Taxes are reduced, business is strengthened, people are allowed to retain more of their own income – freedom is increased. In record time, we have strengthened our commitment to infrastructure, knowledge, research, justice and health. The government prioritizes, streamlines, and modernises. The first steps in the right direction have been taken. It's a lot to fix in. Eight years of red-green management has led to formidable maintenance kits, a shaky justice sector and long queues in the health sector, to mention something. The right-hand party government prioritises value creation. When Stortinget joined the rule of action, a unanimous financial committee pointed out that investment in infrastructure, education and research is important to improve the functioning of the Norwegian economy. Such investment in value-creating measures, combined with tax relief, is something the Progress Party has long called for. In place of ever-increasing expenditure and growth in bureaucracy, this government is investing in growth-promoting investment for a sustainable future. The Progress Party believes that the creativity and will of people, in combination with the commitment to education and research, are the key elements in ensuring a sustainable welfare society. For the Progress Party, it is important that the budget does this, and we are pleased that the government is delivering. The right, Progress Party and Cooperation Parties are increasing research and development efforts by nearly 500 million. kr, a real growth from 2013 to 2014 of 4,1 pst. Human capital is the largest value in Norway, and accounts for about 1 % of total human capital. 80 pst. of our national wealth. The value of our future work represents most of our national wealth. The majority strengthen the workline and invest in empowerment. The progress party is pleased that the bulk of the population reinforces further training of teachers by more than 300 million. kr. 750 more teachers and 100 more principals can now have their competence strengthened annually and contribute to increased quality in school. The Progress Party is pleased that the budget contains several measures to reinforce vocational and vocational training, which will contribute to more and better skilled workers and lower drop-outs in secondary school. In particular, the practical correction of the common subjects becomes an important measure. It is based on a hospitation scheme for vocational teachers and lecturer 2 schemes. The educational grant is increased and a new grant scheme is established to stimulate more enterprises to take in apprentices. The right-hand party government improves the quality of higher education through increased performance-based basic funding of universities and colleges, investments in scientific equipment, construction and laboratories. Governments and cooperative parties have increased education support more than in any single year in the last ten years. In addition, students are now receiving a student loan for their first year as students in the United States, which allows a student to take a full Bachelor's degree in almost all countries around the world with full support from the Loan Fund. The government has also put in place a significant increase in student housing. In the budget, it's set at 359 million. kr for the construction of student housing. That's an increase of over 100 million. kr from the last year's budget. The capital contribution to fresh oils is also increased. This is what the Progress Party has been fighting for for for many years. We are pleased that the private schools are being met and recognised in a much better way than the government of Stoltenberg II did. The Progress Party is also very pleased that the cooperation parties have given priority to strengthening church affairs in the budget. So in sum, we believe that this budget is something the Progress Party can put behind it with a good conscience.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e2979	How are we to characterise the budget adopted by the Right-wing Party Government later this evening? I think it can be summed up in a couple of dimensions: Firstly, there is a budget for withdrawals and lifting breaches. In the election campaign, the election vows were solved. Now the pipe has got a slightly different sound. From the guarantee that all toll stations in Norway will be removed, the Progress Party in the Government will now demand more tolls than ever. And only a microscopic proportion of the Progress Party promised the voters on road betting will be implemented. Think of the following scenario: the working party makes up the slightly crazy idea that we're going to spend 1,000 billion. kr for a high-ranking purpose over the next 10 years. That is what the Progress Party has promised the voters on the road and rail in its alternative ten-year plan for development. Then we won the election, hypothetically -- we didn't, unfortunately, but now I'm telling the story anyway -- and when we were going to make the government statement and the state budget, we just had to say to people: Sorry, we only got a little over 30 pst. Of the voices, so a large, large proportion of what we've promised, unfortunately, there won't be any of them. It'd be bumpy. People had said that we had to know this when we launched the election vows. We had been held responsible for what we had promised. In the same way, the Progress Party shall be held responsible for what they have promised. They got 16 pst. by the votes, but they have one third of the government. Moreover, they must have known that what they promised was totally unrealistic. Some say that people have reason to feel cheated. I'm not going to use such strong words, but I fully agree with Trond Giske, who earlier in the debate described that the trust between voters and trust-chosens is shattered when you walk forward with these kind of election vows, which are completely out of proportion, and which they must have known were totally unrealistic. In the health field, we also see a number of retreats and cancellations. In the election campaign, Bent Höie and Right hit the Workers' Party's health policy. So-called free treatment choices and national operational health and hospital plans were the answer to almost all unresolved health sector tasks. Now these election vows are strongly pushed out in time and adjusted downwards. I also have to add that I think it is a bit provocative that we have a health minister who is unable to respond when the Stortinge asks what should be the contents of this plan or in these reforms, but that he uses the same reforms and election promises every time he is confronted, either on the floor or in the media, with difficult issues. I expect us to get a better response to this – not in four years’ time, but in a shorter time. State Council Höie also agrees that what he himself thought before the election that there was a need for an independent review of the capital process is not going to happen. He promised. They promised that the excess was to be kept at a low level. The first budget increases the proportion of the health care sector. And the hated health regions, the regional health businesses, which were also at the root of all the evils in the election campaign, and that all the unresolved tasks should almost be solved if they were removed, are far on the way to peace for four years. I also think it's amazing that we have a government that increases oil money usage by 4 billion. DKr, which is $8,000 million. kr in tax cuts and not one additional crown to increase the treatment capacity of public hospitals when we know what needs exist, and what kind of medical-technological revolution stand before us. Then we should increase the capacity where the needs are greatest, where most patients are treated. The second feature of the budget is that it makes Norway more oil dependent. When parts of the election vows and especially the tax cuts were to be financed, the temptation became too great. Oil money use is increasing in a situation where land-based industry strongly warns against increased pressure on costs and price. The last characteristic, and that's perhaps the most serious, is that the budget increases the differences between people. I think it is very problematic that we have a Prime Minister who devalues – in the line change with Jens Stoltenberg earlier today – what it means that the income differences between people in Norway are small. There has been a strength and a characteristic of the Norwegian way of organising society. When we warned in the election campaign that it was tax cuts to the richest and increased differences, we were met with claims of terror propaganda. Now we have the fasite: 40,000 for those who make over 2 million. kr and some hundreds of bills per month for those who serve at least. And we're getting to it. I remind you that the Right Party and especially the Advance Party have promised tax cuts in a place between 25 billion. kr and 100 brd. kr. If this is implemented on that scale, our country will change – in my opinion in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3005	The government parties went to the elections to realize the knowledge society, and when you talk about the vision of the knowledge society, there are a lot of places you could start. You could start with quality in kindergarten. It was possible to start with the professional profession, which is not just about making it easier for more people to implement, but about restoring respect for good trade union workers in Norway. One could start with quality in higher education or with research policy. But if we're going to draw one picture of what the knowledge society involves, I think the easiest and most illustrative place to start is with all the six-year-olds who start every harvest at school. Many of them have already gone through a good kindergarten. We know that it has an effect. Let's see them. That's about. 60,000 six-year-olds who start school every harvest. They're tripping out of the farm expectant. They are ready to learn – ready to start their careers in Norwegian school. We as society have given each of these six-year-olds a promise. It's promised that after you're finished with primary school, you'll have the tools you need to survive the rest of your life. Then you will have the tools you need if you want to become a librarian, industrial worker, stockbroker or nurse. The school and the school start of the six-year-olds represent in many ways what we might call the Norwegian dream. It has been common to talk about the American dream, but the Norwegian dream is at least equally important. The idea of the Norwegian school is the strong and strong idea that no matter what background you have, no matter where in the country you come from, no matter where your parents come from and independently of the economy, you will have the same opportunities to develop your skills and talents. There's nothing wrong with the vision and the dream of the Norwegian school. The problem arises when we look at the implementation. There's a lot of good things in Norwegian school. That's a lot of work. We have a lot of great and good teachers. But nevertheless, we know that for too many children – for too many of the six-year-olds who start school – we are unable to fulfill the one great promise we as a society made to them. We know, for example. In the United Kingdom, it is estimated that the number of people living in the United Kingdom has increased by more than one year. one out of five boys leaving primary school without completely basic literacy skills. We know that there are more people in mathematics who are approaching the critical limit – that is, more people who are completely lacking basic skills in mathematics. Then it comes second that it is serious for the Norwegian economy, that it is serious for Norwegian labour and that it is serious for Norwegian competitiveness, even if it is. But first of all, it's serious for the students involved. This government has started a change of pace in several areas. We have started a change of pace in research policy. I'm not going to spend too much time during this period talking about the amount alone, but it's worth mentioning that we've boosted the research effort by 320 million. kr more than what the red-greens proposed in their last budget. We have started a change of pace for quality and non-discrimination in kindergartens, for example. by equalising the difference between children in public and private kindergartens. We have started a change of pace in vocational policy, among other things. by raising the apprenticeship allowance so that more people can take up kindergarten. But the greatest effort in this government's knowledge budget is about the most important factor for all the six-year-olds who start school, the teacher. There is nothing more important about how school goes for a child than what you learn from school — the factors that politicians can directly do. It's much more important than fruit and green. It is much more important than compulsory cultural schooling in the school leisure system. It is much more important than measures that do not have a clear impact on learning and knowledge. That's why this government has put in $300 million. kr in addition to a continuing education and training promise. It's not because Norwegian teachers are bad, but because good teachers can get even better, if they get the tools to do it. In this way, we're taking the first step towards building the knowledge society further.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3015	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3018	Both the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister and the Right parliamentary leader have tried in various ways to explain to us what new ideas the Right has in removing the party trap of the Council of State, the representative of Hofstad Helleland, has referred to as a rigid and old-fashioned system of child care admission. Rolling babysitting is not about new legislation or regulations to the municipalities, we have heard. It is not about money, nor can it be a new idea that municipalities fill up the vacant spaces they have. I experienced that with my daughter 23 years ago. What new solutions have been devised, over the four years that we have been told about new ideas and better solutions? Is there an increase in the nursery prices to free places, or is there NOK 23 000 in the means of competence for each municipality, which stands in the way of implementing a new scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3027	Let me first stress that it's $170 million. We spend more than 2013 on the means of competence. It's actually very important that we spend that money, and we've strengthened that proposal by the red-green government, precisely because quality in kindergarten is the most crucial thing. Then it's quite right, as the representative says, that we haven't kept the policy of the red-green government with two recordings this year. We've said that we want a more flexible recording. The problem that we had to rely on pretty quickly, when we got into the government, was that the previous government hadn't even broken down, you almost have to say, to provide a proper knowledge base to start with flexible recording. So what we've started off with now is simply a matter of fact collection to make sure, for example. to look at the municipalities that already have flexible intake, see how many there are, and what we can learn from them. Then we have said that we should come back to the Stortinget with one thing about it, but we have not followed up what was the policy of the red-green government – precisely because this government has a different policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3034	In October, the students were declared budget winners. The red-green government's proposal for 11 months' student support would have involved NOK 11 000 more paid support to the students this year and was referred to by the students themselves as historical, and as a quality boost. A month later, the Solberg government cancelled the initiative, and after the proposal for increased support for the study had been exposed to the new government's implementation, two out of three dollars in the study grant had been removed. The student leaders' comment was that this is a clear dispensation of students and higher education. It's tax cuts that are priority. But if the Council of State believes it is too expensive to bet on this, he can read the blog of Tord Lien at the time. The line states that it is not expensive at all to increase the support for the study and justifies it with increased implementation. Does the Minister of Knowledge agree with his colleague Lien, with the Christian People's Party, with the Left and with the Workers' Party that eleven months of study support is a good measure to increase implementation?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3043	Let me first say that I understand that the students were disappointed – I have no difficulty understanding that. On the other hand, what I have a little problem with understanding is that the Workers' Party is so tall and dark after eight years in the government were unable to deliver a single penny more to the study funding other than price adjustment. We have since 2014, where else the red-greens had added zero dollars next to the price adjustment – zero dollars in increase in 2014 – increased by 3,500 kroner. That's the largest increase in over ten years. I understand that the students would like even more, and I understand that extra well, because every year with the red-green government, the students fell aft compared to the employees in Norway – every year. The biggest studio commitment of ten years from 2014, where the red-greens had added zero, I think is good. And then we're going to keep lifting, as opposed to the red-green ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3048	I would first like to say that I greatly appreciate the clear commitment made by the government to knowledge. The budget agreed by the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left represents an ambitious commitment to the school. In order for this initiative to deliver results, we need to be able to solve some major challenges. The rate of drop-out in secondary education is far too high. The figures from the Statistical Central Bureau show that 30 pst. by those who begin high school, do not complete. This is the average for the whole country. In some counties, the loss is over 50 pst. This is a huge waste of both economic and human resources. In the Christian People's Party, we have expectations that the government and the Minister of Knowledge will address this problem, and my question is what the Council of State sees fit to do to reduce the drop-out and ensure that the six-year-olds who start school not only get what they are going to do after ten years, but that they also complete advanced education.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3057	That's a very important question. We're already doing some things in the budget right now. I mentioned, for example: the increase in the apprenticeship allowance, which I believe is important, and we also strengthen a number of schemes to increase the opportunities for professionals, for example: to switch between practice and school. These are schemes that I have great faith in and that I think can work. Since I was strict with the previous government in the previous response post, I can say that it – probably – came out quite well of the New GIV bet that was started a few years ago. Now there are some thorough evaluation reports over a few weeks, and then it is likely that some of the measures started, for example. what has led to closer cooperation between Nav and the County Municipality, has worked well, but then there are probably other parts we need to look at more. I would like to come back and answer for it more when those reports come and become public.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3066	The fact that Norwegian schoolchildren have been given fruit and green subsidies by the state has still been ridiculed in the Norwegian school debate. We've also heard it right now, that it's making fun of it. It makes sense that we're actually the only country in Europe, except Albania, that doesn't serve food at all at school. Swallows in the debate we have had before today, we have heard more people who have mentioned the red-green error priorities in emphasising health and nutrition as a prerequisite for good learning, and that in the world's richest country. The blue-blue government with the Left and Christian People's Party on draw has now set a line over the fruit and green order, people get their sails – it's more important to bet on something properly. This happens at the same time as we know that social health inequalities are increasing, and those who have a good economy and high education are eating healthy, and those who have a poorer economy and lower education are eating more unhealthy. The sum that the blue-blue government takes from the small ones and gives to the rich ones, is about a tenth of the tax bill to those who have over 2 million. kr in income. Is it so important for tax havens for the richest that we can't afford fruit and green for our schoolchildren?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3075	I don't want to be dragged into money discussions, but just for the sake of order, I mention that the Ministry of Knowledge's budget is 300 million. kr greater than the proposed budget of the red-greens. I do not mean to ridicule at all. I believe that it is more indisputable that fruit and vegetables are very healthy, than that humans affect climate change. But then I would say that if we're going to reduce the social differences in Norway, there's something even more important than fruit and vegetables, and that's where the government has made a clear priority. What's even more important is that we have a school that gives basic knowledge and skills to everyone. Then we have said that prioritizing the continuing training of teachers, which unfortunately is a bet that the previous government was unable to do – a lot of talking about it, but it was done very little – is more important. For the six-year-old who starts school, it's all, after all – even though it's healthy to eat fruit and carrots and everything – even more important that they meet a good teacher who's got the chance to get even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3082	I assume that the Council of State is familiar with the report Demand for and offer of scholarship positions in Norway by 2020, where there is an estimated need for several hundred scholarship positions annually by 2020. The Red-Greens, as you know, put forward a budget of 60 new scholarship positions, and the Left, together with the Christian People's Party, have made a settlement with the government, where it has been set up for another 100 new scholarship positions. It's still a long way from what's left's alternative budget, where we're adding 500 new scholarship positions. My question to the Council of State is: How many scholarship positions does the Council of State see that we can get in place in the next budgets? Is this an important field of higher education and research?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3089	When the budget proposal from the previous government came, there were several scholarship positions. There would have been little increase in that area over the previous years. Then the government parties added 50 new ones, and then there were 100 new ones in Stortinget. It's a pretty noticeable bet up. If the question is how many scholarship positions there are, there are quite a few. But what I see the representative asking is whether this is an important field of action. It is absolutely – because it is important for the Norwegian economy and competitiveness that we have people who take a doctorate and that we have good grant schemes, but at least as important it is that it is crucial for recruitment to the academy. So my ambition is that we will have a clear and strong commitment to fellow students in the coming budgets, but I can't now say exactly how big it will be next year and year after. I ask you to understand that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3097	I wonder where it comes from, that this is a budget that invests more in knowledge than the already submitted budget. If you look at the year-on-year effect of the loss of fruit and green and cultural spheres and a part of what's being laid down, I'm very excited about what the result is. I chose to take the word – I was going to say something completely different, but I listened to the answer about kindergartens, and now there is complete chaos in my mind about what is actually this government's line. First we asked the Prime Minister what one meant by going away from two recordings. Then we got the answer that this was up to the municipalities. Then we asked the municipal minister what the municipalities should do. Yes, one should help them to do this. Then, on my front, I have asked the Council of State questions about various things and have received quite a fuzzy response in the form of letters. And now all of a sudden we get something completely new out of the hat, that this is about the facts. It's completely new.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3104	Just this number first, it comes from the budget and it's the Ministry of Knowledge framework. Of course, you can discuss the priorities in that framework, but the framework for the knowledge budget is thus 300 million. kr higher – and actually a little above it – than the previous government stated. Then there are important bets there, like that. non-discrimination of kindergarten children and its escalation, and the teacher's lift. I haven't heard anyone say anything other than what I say about what is government policy. What’s on the government platform – I don’t remember exactly the wording – is to stimulate municipalities for more flexible admission. Two nursery receptions have not been the policy of this government, but we have said that we want to present a case with more flexible admission as a goal. And then we haven't done it in five weeks. I also think it is a bit much needed on a policy that the red-green government, after all, has not been able to present in the last four years they have been sitting. But we'll come back to this in a suitable way.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3111	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3114	Norway has a good health system in general. Most people get the health care they need and are left with a positive experience, and the employees do a wonderful job. I have always taken this into account when discussing health policy. But we have great challenges, and we have many challenges. For eight years I have listened to representatives from SV, the Workers' Party and the Center Party who have boasted of everything they have done, and all they have done. The problem was that, at the same time as self-confidence, the queues increased, and the headlines in the media, as well as enquiries from patients, relatives and health professionals told us something quite different. Getting a recognition of this was impossible, and any attempt to propose a change was rejected. After the country received a Right Party government with a cooperation agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, I have received very many enquiries as head of the Health and Care Committee. Anyone who has been fighting for a health issue for years now has the hope of being heard, and I admit that we have a crazy job to do. The government shall draw up a separate hospital plan, a contingency plan for the drug field, a medical notification and a contingency plan for rehabilitation, to mention something. We need to raise our skills and look at emergency medicine and medical care. We have a huge amount of work ahead of us. But it also shows very clearly that there has been a new government – a new government that sees and hears what is being said by those standing in the middle of it. We go from a government that seemed to be very satisfied with its own work to a new government that sees the need for upgrading, conversion and quality improvement in all areas of health. I am therefore happy to see that representatives from the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre send questions every day to the Minister of Health about how he wants to clean up everything that they themselves did not manage to do when they had the opportunity. I hope they continue to send such questions, and even better -- I hope they keep running to the media with it, so that as many people as possible in our country get these concessions that are now coming on a continuous bond from the red-green ones. The new government is impatient, and we should have liked to have had more time to make important and necessary changes to the budget. But some important steps are taken, especially in health, and especially for those who need it the most. Several patients should be treated, and capacity should be purchased from private individuals to bring down queues. Russ and mental health are given special priority in specialist health services, in municipalities and in volunteering. All levels have the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party strengthened. We have received praise from all over the country from people and organisations who have been concerned with drugs and mental health – for raising the issue in the election campaign and for keeping our promises in this budget. Resource-intensive users shall not experience cutbacks. A number of lucky days' care and care places shall be built by increasing the grants significantly, and those who lack teeth or otherwise have high dental expenses due to age and/or disease shall be covered. So when we didn't create our own budget from the bottom of it, it has been important to give priority to those who have waited the longest and those who need the help the most. Therefore, the phasing-out of the right of deduction is also reversed for particular large costs of illness, and we return mental health to the schools, as the red-green ones with a pen strip removed. Without the volunteer organizations, we had had real trouble, and many had stood without an offer. The government wants to make more use of volunteering and therefore increases the appropriations for this work. In addition, we increase the tax credit for gifts to volunteer. A lot of good things can be achieved by living in Norway, but it takes a bit of luck, a little howl and screaming and a little fat wallet. The government prioritises health and care. Health and care are important elements to give most people a safe and healthy life. Good health provides well-being. It is necessary to put in place measures to stop the two-part division of the healthcare system that we have seen in recent years, by the fact that those who are able to shout loudly, or those who have a lot of money or health insurance, have come to the aid first. With this, the government is presenting a budget that shows some of the way we've been thinking, namely towards a health care system equal to everyone, regardless of the wallet, which is to raise patients' groups who have been down-prioritised – and with many plans for strengthened rights and improved quality. The government has a lot of plans, and we've started work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3148	Family and gender equality policies reveal differences between a red-green government and a blue-blue government. Together with the submitted budget, which gives rise to increased disparities, it shows that Norway is going in the wrong direction. We suggest building kindergartens next year. The new government proposes more cash support. We want more footage in kindergartens. The new government has no idea what it wants in kindergarten policy. We'll bet more on cheaper kindergartens. The new government provides more expensive kindergartens. We'll bet on kids and cardboard. The new government wants parental leave to belong to mother. We're going to organize the line of work. The new government is laying out stumbling blocks for girls in the world of work. We work for a modern and forward-looking family and gender policy. The new government is working for an immature and old-fashioned policy. It can certainly be said that it is not in the family and gender policy that new ideas and better solutions will be tested. Although government councils claim to have had too little time to do so, there has at least been time to put equality policy in reverse. In their eagerness to reintroduce an old-fashioned gender equality policy, they have not lacked old ideas and poor solutions. For us who represent the Labour Party, it is a political goal to give people more freedom to live their own lives, to organise a good everyday life for children and families, and to take new initiatives to give women and men equal opportunities. Available and reasonable kindergartens give women and men the freedom to make their choices in everyday life. Children's playgrounds ensure freedom for young people who have something extra heavy in their backpack. They give women the freedom and opportunity to become economically independent, as well as society's labour, income and wealth. The paperwork primarily gives father and child time together. However, it also makes women more attractive in the labour market and therefore increases equality. Norway is one of the world's most equal countries. Time and again, we're drawn to the best country to live and live in. In the European context, Norwegian women have quite a number of children. Women in many other countries — across party-political divisions — regard our gender equality policy as a model for their own social development. Now we have received both the female Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. Then it should have been that girls in Norway and in the world could have expectations that we should go ahead and take the role of promoting gender equality policy. In cultural policy too, we see a change of pace. Today, the Cultural Promise is buried. The Solberg government cut 250 million. cultural crowns to put in place their tax havens, and no one has heard the new government mention the Cultural Promise. The cultural promise has been important to give culture a clearer place in society. It is easy to share former cultural editor in the Evening Post, now State Secretary, Åmås’ thoughts on the Cultural Promise in the Evening Post on 14 October this year. He wrote: ‘ Hopefully, in a few weeks’ time, the budget of the citizens will not reverse the proposed increase to the red-greens, which for the first time brings culture up to 1 per cent of the state budget. It would be both an unfortunate and unnecessary signal in a small and modest sector of major societal importance.’ The Labour Party fully agrees with cultural editor Åmås – and it is a pity that the Secretary of State has not reached out with his views. The Labour Party wants to balance economic and social differences and to facilitate a inclusive society, including in the field of culture. The Labour Party wants to provide better living conditions for those who work in the industry. The working party wants diversity in terms of expression and to bet on both width and top. Three cultural vows have contributed to this – therefore, it is with remorse that we note that the cultural promise was cancelled by the blue-blue government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3170	Before the elections, any criticism by the red-green government or the identification of weaknesses and challenges in the welfare society met that the opposition should not be talking Norway down. Now, after six weeks with a bourgeois government, we realize that it has been harvested out. When you listen to the Labour Party's leading spokesmen and women, with Trond Giske, Helga Pedersen and Torgeir Mikalsen at the head, who do not find a single point of light in the politics of the new government, it is almost remembered that the last who leaves the Kingdom must remember to turn off the light. Because there's no way! In the last article, the Cultural Promise was to be buried, and some might well confuse it with a powerful government. This is to take a lot of Møller's tran – if the posts we've heard from the Workers' Party today, would have been close to being right. But I am pleased that in one area the criticism has stopped after the election, and it is a municipal economy. Before the elections we heard from the north to the south from the workers' party's national and local politicians that with a bourgeois government, and in particular with the Right in government, it would be starvation of the municipalities. Now, after the election, we have received the fasit, and it has been quieted down by the Workers' Party in terms of the municipal economy – with good reason, because a robust municipal structure is continuing. The fact is that the free income of the municipalities is increased by the Right and Advance Party in government, compared to a red-green government. For us, it's important. It is important that we have a predictable and robust community structure, because it is about many of the most basic welfare services for the elderly and for children, and not least about the importance of good schools. In addition to continuing a robust municipal structure, we are helping to strengthen the local authorities' ability to invest in a good school for our children, by making an extra effort to train teachers, and we are facilitating that municipalities are better able to take care of the weakest, including the weakest. by removing the cut from the Stoltenberg II government, which focused on the provision of community services to young people with mental health challenges. The NHO report has marked this debate and has shown that in Norway too we are vulnerable when growth is falling, and the level of costs in Norway is too high. For the government, it is important to strengthen the growth power of the economy and ensure growth and development across the country. In terms of regional and regional policy, our government's policy differs from that of red-green. It is in one important area, and it is that we are concerned that society should be created and developed from below and managed and regulated less from above. There will be fewer state-initiated local projects with a civil government, but there will be more room for the local initiative for entrepreneurs, for entrepreneurs, for small and medium-sized enterprises, for the many who ensure that there is growth and jobs to go to throughout the country. We are changing policy in an important area by reducing state resources to county/regional development funds. On the other hand, we're strengthening what we know works, that's to have a big investment in infrastructure, because the county roads are now getting 780 million. kr more to next year. That's what District Norway has asked for, that's what companies have asked for. It helps to sew the living and working regions together, and it helps to speed up the entry of goods into the market. We strengthen research, development and innovation and investment in environmental technologies, and we reduce important taxes and taxes that also strengthen private ownership in Norway. These are important instruments for offensive rural and regional policies, which contribute to growth and development, and which not least ensure that we have safe jobs that create values and that ensure well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3187	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3190	Since the Council of State was somewhat dismayed that the government has been criticized, I get to start by giving the Council of State the right to increase the appropriations for the municipalities. There's an increase that the Workers' Party supports, because it's due to changing assumptions, and it should just be lacking that you didn't compensate for it. But this government is committed to making itself the guarantors of industrial development and value creation. Norway is a rich country with many opportunities for value creation across the country, and it has been important to facilitate active economic development throughout the country. But the government's follow-up to this has not gone in that direction. Restrictions on CO2 compensation – important for industry – have been proposed to eliminate the possibility of impact assessment for Northern Ireland VI and Northern Ireland VII, and the possibilities for regional development through the counties, as the Council of State was involved in its intervention, are weakened. Is not the Council of State concerned that we in Norway should have an even stronger centralisation trend, with the negative consequences it will have for both pig-grown strokes and the more central press areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3202	Let me first say that it was nice that the replicator saw at least one point of light in the policy of the new government, but let me also add that I am not disappointed that the Workers' Party needs to care for its wounds. On the contrary, I believe that the new government has everything to gain from the fact that the Workers' Party continues in the same track. I don't think the voters value the rhetorical Workers' Party. With regard to value creation policy, I must say that I fundamentally disagree with the Workers' Party that county/regional development funds are the most important for developing in District Norway, not least in order to secure jobs. When I travel around District Norway and visit small and medium-sized enterprises, I hear that what you're asking for is better roads. The new government is increasing the appropriations for county roads by 780 million. kr. There is something that will contribute to growth and development and safer jobs in District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3209	The government of Solberg has positive wordings about local self-government in its political platform. Its name is, among other things, – and I quote: «The government will strengthen local democracy by transferring power and responsibility to the municipalities.» This is not followed up in the draft budget, which introduces increased earmarking. Designation of a short period of time for the inclusion of appropriations in the framework has been used as a means of establishing new tasks or increasing efforts in an area. We have carried out a kindergarten reform, a psychiatry reform, abusing and child protection activities in this way. In the government's designation now the bet is lacking, since the money is taken entirely through cuts in the municipal framework. In the municipalities, it must be felt as an invitation to reduce the ongoing use of drugs in order to have to apply for new funds. How can a reduction in free resources and the designation of an established system go hand in hand with the promise of strengthened local democracy by shifting more power and responsibility to the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3221	Let me first correct a manifest misunderstanding. There is no reduction in the free resources of the municipalities. The new government is increasing the free resources of the local government sector. I am pleased that the Central Party is putting local self-government on the agenda, and I am absolutely convinced that many centre party rapporteurs around the country will be pleased with the policy of the new government – whether it is about being able to facilitate scooter driving, or it is about fewer objections and state review. I experience central party rapporteurs in many areas as a good ally for the new government in facilitating local self-government. So I hope we can also get a good cooperation in Stortinget. As far as earring is concerned, I agree in principle that as much free income as possible is important, but at the same time, I think it is absolutely right and necessary to earmark drugs and psychiatry. It's about some of the weakest in our society, and we have to make sure they get better and faster help.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3231	I share the views of the Council of State on the need to modernise and renew the country. It's important not just for parts of the country, but for all. Then it's important that we have an infrastructure that takes this into account, and it's also important that we maintain soil protection in a good way. For cultivated land is also a minimum factor, and there are many examples of it. The last thing we see is that one in Westby should use 70 targets to get an IKEA building up – however, the number of food soils is reduced from 135. It is regrettable, in my view, that food land is being built up, and that one does not consider less attractive and less productive areas. But when a person makes such decisions, it is desirable to hear how the Council of State intends to practice this in the future. Is it true that a double that is taken out of cultivated land, that a person cultivates new land instead of what is taken for housing, food and road purposes?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3236	I perceive that one of the questions here is based on concrete things that are going to end up on my table. It's not natural to deal with that kind of stuff over the table here, but to submit it to a thorough and good treatment in the department. We're going to listen to different sides of this case. I have even invited both the Farmers and the Nature Conservation Association to a meeting. We are committed to taking care of the whole thing, including soil protection, while at the same time ensuring that we listen to local self-government. I think we're all going to admit that these issues are complicated, and that there are different considerations that need to be weighed up against each other, but one should not be surprised that a government that places great emphasis on local autonomy, will also listen to local autonomy in many cases. Then it has to be balanced against professional input from other agencies.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3241	The criticism of the local economy of the Right and the Advance Party has not gone to the sum, but of what they indicate in a direction: that municipalities with high incomes should keep more seas and that poor income municipalities should not get so much bullying – i.e. that they should have less money. Then what Councillor Røe Isaksen was up here and said, "Every kid should have the right to equal school regardless of which municipality they live in." Another area is the strong cut in innovation and regional development. It's at 430 million. kr, and I think you have to be a member of the Right if you're going to think that a county or municipality is going to be better off driving business development when they get less money. At least it doesn't believe the organization Abelia, who, in consultation with the committee, strongly warns against this cut and says it will reduce the activities of innovation and start-up. Isn't Abelia okay with what they're talking about?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3253	Abelia has a lot to do with what they're talking about. This is also one of the reasons why I have a former CEO in Abelia, formerly also an SV member, as State Secretary in my department, with many positive contributions. But we're probably fundamentally in disagreement about what's most important in industrial policy. I have also looked at some of the evaluations that have been of the county and regional development funds. I hope that the representative Andersen has also read the reports, which were submitted in 2009. It wasn't just a tribute to these means and that they only went to what they were supposed to do. We've listened to the companies, we've listened to District Norway, and what they're asking for is increased investment on the way, providing better framework conditions, and they're concerned that society is to be created from below. That is the good framework conditions that are the most important for the growth of rural and urban areas throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3258	First, I have to take the opportunity to comment on the Council's response to a previous line here that when you stick to a principle, it is a prerequisite that it should have credibility – that you actually fill it with content. I share the view that ringing is not initially a good way to go, but when the Council of State has it as a principle, you should also follow up with appropriations. So something I'm busy getting clarity about: now I've heard right in this room over four years be very busy doing something about the tax arrangements for the municipalities. At the same time, the Council of State stated that this has not actually turned on. The question then arises: Is it the case that the Council of State cancels the Right Policy? Should there not be a greater tax share for the municipalities? Is it that you should not reintroduce the share of the corporation tax? And is it that you don't want to do anything about the tax equalization scheme that the red-green government has introduced?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3268	If the representative had listened to what I said, he would have heard that I stressed the predictability of the municipalities. This means that changes in the framework conditions for municipalities will not be made overnight, it will be announced, and the Government's statement announces that the government will have an overall review of the income system. This includes, inter alia: that you want to look at the company tax and the taxpayer, but it cannot be seen in isolation, you also have to look at other aspects of the income system. What we specifically point to in the supplementary proposal, the 2014 budget, is that we want to look at the challenges of the growth communities. There I hope that the Labour Party will also be willing to cooperate with the government, because there is no doubt that many of the growth municipalities have specific challenges associated with providing their citizens with an equivalent welfare offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3273	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3276	I notice in the early part of today's debate that the representative Jonas Gahr Støre said that the municipalities are so liberal that they are able to provide good services also to people who are resource-requiring, and that one can tolerate it cut as the red-green ones put into their budget. With extensive experience from local politics, I would say that I believe that there is no spokesman and no municipal politician who recognizes that it is so liberal, with the framework that the municipalities have had. There has also been a great deal of talk about free income, framework grants and the local economy in general, and there was also a small round of it now in connection with the Council of State. But what is a fact is that the municipalities, contrary to what they red-green warn against before the elections, get more in income for the municipal sector in 2014 than what was in the proposal of the Stoltenberg II government. It's not like the representative, Erik Sivertsen, said, that it's because of changed statements. It is because of the great majority of people, consisting of the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, who say that resource-requiring services are so important that an increase of 214 million. kr. Therefore, the municipalities have more revenue to the next year than they had with the proposal of the Stoltenberg II government. And then there are some elements that go up and down the so-called income system, which it's a little bit important to communicate: when we say they get more, it's because one also gets a task redistribution. One no longer gets two babysittings, one gets compensation to increase the non-discrimination rate to 98 pst., one gets extra on the price rise, and one no longer has a requirement for fruit and green. This does not mean that one takes away fruit and green, but one says that the Storting no longer determines it; it is up to the individual municipality itself to decide whether to have fruit and green in the youth sphere. Last night, I had the pleasure of attending a Presidency meeting in a municipality where the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party have almost all the representatives in the Presidency, and they said that fruit and green is something they want to give to the inhabitants of that municipality. So this is voluntary. Together it is with the cultural sphere – an hour in the week to the cultural sphere. So the rush is moving out of the building supplement and into the ear-marked supplement, precisely because this is so important that here, government and big business want to ensure that all the inhabitants get a proper offer. So the sum total is a plus for the municipal sector next year, because the four parties think this is important. Then there's another difference. It's not that our rhetoric is like Gahr Støre's representative, that there is liberality in the local economy. We are honest that the municipalities are faced with the need for priority. We are also honest that next year's pension expenditure and demographic expenditure are increasing, and that municipalities are forced to think about priorities and to streamline their operations all the time. Then I also notice in the questions to the Council of State that the representative Karin Andersen said that one must be a member of the Right in order to believe that cutting regional development in the county municipalities is feasible. I can dare say that one can be a member of the Progress Party, too, to believe that, or perhaps the Labour Party as well. I read a few days ago in the Hålogaland newspaper that Bendiks Harald Arnesen, a well-known man of national politics, said that the Trom County Municipality alone can save 300 million dollars. kr without having consequences for the population. If one alone in Trom County can save 300 million. without people wanting to mark it, one can at least reduce slightly, as has been proposed, in regional development funds and move them across the road, which is the proposal, so that business and citizens can travel more than regional means of development in the county. What is contained in the proposal for a decision today is a good framework for Kommune-Noreg, a good framework for the county and not least – and most importantly – a good framework for most people and for the business community, and it is nevertheless within the responsible framework and management of Kommune-Noreg, which is important. So it's warning some element that we're going to come back to. In the supplementary proposition, there are two things in particular that I want to mention. One is to look at municipalities with growth challenges, with large capital expenditures linked to investment. One should also contribute and return to a positive economic incentive in relation to the municipal reform, which is also important.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3291	In connection with the debate we had here on the census and the statement by Prime Minister Solberg, I asked the Prime Minister whether the new government would share the ambition of the outgoing government to have Europe's lowest unemployment rate. I also asked if she was willing to put in place the measures necessary to achieve that objective. Unfortunately, I got an answer that could give the impression that high employment comes of itself when you have oil money. It's a long way from history. I have enjoyed receiving many foreign delegations on behalf of the Stortinget. Of course, many of them are concerned that we have oil money. But what I've used to say to them, which is right, is that what's reason to envy the Norwegian society seen from abroad is not the one-time income from oil and gas, it's the high professional participation. Or, in another way, there's reason to envy us, are the women's people. Of course, because we have as high a professional participation as we do in Norway, it is not least because we have a much higher professional participation among women than is usual in most countries around us. It has been pointed out by the government of Stoltenberg, and it is pointed out by the current government, that one of the challenges of industrial policy is the two-track economy, as it is called. The government also did something about that. Because that's not what it's been said in the debate here, that the government of Stoltenberg only proposed a tax haven for the companies by going down to 27 pst. That's how we redeployed by deducting taxes from just the second part of the two-track economy: the oil sector. So it was a redistribution. It was an active industrial policy aimed at the companies, and not just at the owners of companies, as the relief from the taxes on wealth is. I am pleased that the new government agrees that we need to look at the challenges of the two-track economy. I also hope that concrete measures will be taken. Then the government in the supplementary proposition announces that we can expect increased unemployment to next year. Of course, this is because we have been affected by the economic cycle around us, that some of the growth signals are being reduced in the Norwegian economy. I'm not going to criticise the government for that. But what the government's task is to meet that challenge with concrete measures. Once we have managed to get through the financial crisis, which has hit Norway, like all other countries in Europe and in the world, it is because we have met it with active measures to ensure that objective No. 1, which is the full employment. Once we have expected increased unemployment, we have taken action against these economic cycles. And we have measures in many areas that contribute to employment. When the government now cuts in kindergartens, when they cut our proposal for two admissions a year, and when they increase the time for cash support, it has an impact on the labour market and women's participation in the labour market, not least. When we look at the industrial policy that it is cut on the agricultural side, when we have seen a number of measures that weaken the competitiveness of the Norwegian fishing industry, when we look at Innovation Norway, which is not just a technical concept, but which are actually the crowns that can help small businesses get going all around the country, then it is wrong instruments at a time when we see that there is a danger that unemployment will increase. We have been clearly informed in the hearings of the N.O.C. Labour and Social Committee that cutting down on the permitting system, i.e. that businesses have to pay more and the period is getting shorter, is completely wrong medicine in a situation where we see trends in unemployment increasing. And the government's proposal to cut CO2 compensation is a very typical example of action that an absolutely no-one should do when we encounter worse times. It was this kind of action we offensively chose to use positive and strengthen the last time we were in a situation where we were threatened with high unemployment in this country. For the first time we experience a government that says – point. 1 – the unemployment rate is going to increase a little more, and – point 1. 2 – we cut in the action areas. All these areas are instruments that can be used and work together to achieve the objective of full employment. It looks like the government is saying it, but it doesn't seem like it will the tools that are needed to ensure full employment.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3315	One of the most important things that politicians can do is to think in the long term, so that we can create a society that will be the best possible for as many people as possible – not only for us who are here today, but also for our children and grandchildren who are going to take over after us. The financial debate today is thus about how we prioritise using our common values for the best of society. In the budget that we are going to adopt today, which is a budget for the four bourgeois parties, we see the first steps towards a new course – a new course that was wanted by the Norwegian people from the fall’s decisions. We see a change of pace for knowledge and research. It is a budget that follows up the points of the Sundvolden Declaration, with proposals for growth-enhancing tax incentives that stimulate investment and saving, more for health and care, increased mobility and strengthened asylum and justice policies. A clear and clear prioritisation of budgetary knowledge shows that the government is serious when it says that the knowledge nation should now be realised. Concrete growth in student funding, as well as enhanced teacher training, and increased investment in research and innovation are good news for all those who are committed to strengthening our competitiveness in the future. With the budget we are about to adopt, research efforts have been significantly strengthened in relation to the original proposals of the Stoltenberg Government. According to NIFU's estimate, with a new government, we get a real growth of 4.1 pst, against 3.0 pst. original. It's over 320 million. kr more than what was proposed by the previous government. In addition, the effect of the extension of the tax FUNN scheme is estimated at 160 million. kr. The government aims to make Norway one of Europe's most innovative countries. Therefore, the government has given particular priority to strengthening the industry-related research. Among other things, the appropriations for the User-driven Innovation Arena, which stimulates ambitious research efforts in Norwegian business, are increasing. The Government also proposes to strengthen efforts in the fields of petroleum research, marine research and nanotechnologies, biotechnology and ICT. This is important for the safe renewal and transformation of business and society. In addition, the Government proposes 50 new positions within the Food and Drug Administration and a new system of public doctoral thesis. In addition, the government is strengthening the internationalisation of Norwegian research by proposing an additional 20 million. kr to actions for increased Norwegian participation in European research cooperation. Norway is dependent on developing a knowledge-based business to assert itself in a globalised world where capital, knowledge and jobs are moving faster and faster across national borders. The government has now begun to turn its money into investing more in forward-looking measures rather than increasing overall consumption. I record that especially the Workers' Party is trying to tell a story that the state of the Norwegian economy has never been better. It seems that they believe that the voters have misunderstood something when they have actually given their votes to a broad bourgeois majority. Well, a lot is going well in Norway, but there are also some danger signals. In recent years productivity growth has failed, and the competitiveness of the mainland industry has deteriorated significantly. The level of costs is far above that of our partners, and the gap continues to rise. This gives cause for concern about the jobs in mainland Norway. Already, unemployment is increasing, and the employment rate has been on a downward trend for five tight years. The picture drawn in this debate by the red-greens who lost the election is not in harmony with my experience of reality. When the Labour Party's fiscal spokesman says that the government is warning a course that will weaken the social attitude, I wonder which words will be used for confidence in the future. The voters have given confidence to a civil majority in the Grand Duchy, and we are going to adopt a budget that reflects the priorities on which the four parties were elected. We see a clear change in the policy, which strengthens competitiveness and value creation, which is the basis for our future well-being. Much is going well in Norway, but as I said, we are also facing some challenges in the future. I do not agree with the previous speakers that this budget does not meet these challenges. The government counters the challenges we face by showing that it prioritises investing in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3348	I am very pleased that the Right Party government has presented a growth-promoting budget – a growth-promoting budget, which means laying the foundation for creating more jobs. Forecasts are clear and clear: next year, it will be possible to expect 30 000 more jobs. This is done by providing lower taxes and taxes to business. However, the Right-Fremskrit party government also has the ability to provide lower taxes and contributions to ordinary workers. It's positive for the economy, it's positive for the individual, and it's positive for the business community. There is little doubt that the government is basing its policies on continuing high employment and low unemployment. The latest forecasts show clearly that in 2014 high employment and low unemployment can still be expected. As Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, I am naturally very pleased with that. But what worries me is that more and more people of working age are not part of the working life. By the end of 2012, there were about 600 000 people, corresponding to nearly 20 pst. of the population aged between 18 and 67, on health-related benefits, i.e. out of work. This corresponds to an increase of 230,000 people in the last 20 years. That is why I am very pleased that the Right Party government is clear and clear and wants to give priority to getting more people into the labour market. This is done by strengthening action places for those with a working disability of 3000 places. I record what is being said by the NHO and the reintroduction industry, that already with this budget, which is very positive, there is a shift in pace to help more people who are outside the labour market enter the labour market. I'm glad. At the same time, the government provides an action level with an intensity of action that is the same as in the years 2002–2005, which means that around 50 000 people can also be helped through these measures. It's not a sharp decline, as it's tried out here, it's a correction according to the labour market we have, which every government has always done. So does this government. Then I am very happy that in the budgetary agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party, there has been a clear promise to help even more people who are in danger of doing this outside, into the labour market, by increasing social entrepreneurship by 10 million. kr. So I would like to stress that it is important for this government to provide a better social security network. This has been done, among others. by not continuing the fiscal consolidation of the previous government for chronically ill people by removing deduction schemes for diseases. This government keeps the deduction, which means you don't get a tax increase for the most vulnerable. Furthermore, I am very happy that this government is also clear and clear that you want to make everyday life easier for most people. That is why we have brought back small aids for disabled people to whom the previous government cut the appropriations. We have arranged for people with disabilities to function better in their everyday lives and to have the means to have a good, safe and functional life. That's what it's all about when you're going to ensure a better safety net for people who need an outstretched hand in a difficult situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3363	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3366	‘Norwegian authorities cannot sit in their naivety, passive and only watch Norway evolve to become the whole of Europe’. I expect the Council of State to accept this quote. He also says that the Norwegian welfare systems were not established to be a honey pot for Europe. The government is now proposing to increase the cash support. Does it mean, then, that the Council of State believes that the government acts both naively and passively when it proposes to increase the size of this honey pot?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3373	Thank you for the question. Let me first say that I recognize the statements. The government is clear and clear about stopping and combating social security exports. My commitment to stopping and combating social security exports is just as forward-looking today as it was before. But I think it is naive to just look at the cash support and say that by keeping it at the level of the previous government, all social security services had been removed. It is a naive approach to a very important and serious issue, which needs much better, targeted and broader instruments than that. It's this government willing to implement.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3380	Now the question was not the position of the previous government, it was actually this one, but let me try to shed light on the question from a slightly different and more homely point of view. The party of progress has now risen to the Integration Party with a great deal in it. What measures for immigrant women and their children have the Minister of Labour and Social Security been hiding in the sleeve to counteract the negative impact of cash support, more expensive kindergartens and reduced paper size?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3385	I would like to answer what is involved in social security exports, and then I would like to encourage questions to the Minister for Family Affairs about what has to do with family matters. But we have a lot of measures that regulate. One of the measures we consider to limit social security exports is in particular: to adjust costs. There is one of several measures that the government needs to look at. We are committed to finding the necessary space for action within today’s EEA legislation to ensure good, robust welfare systems, which at the same time provide a way to prevent increased social security exports. As I said, we are doing that work. It's got a big priority on my side.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3392	The Council of State stated that there was a change of pace in helping those who have reduced their working capacity and need help to get back to work. It's a change of pace that the Christian People's Party wants to welcome, and where we want to contribute constructively to ensure the best possible action. In recent times, there has been a discussion about the message that was being sent to the companies and the work to be done in the follow-up to the Brofoss selection. On a previous question from the signed Black State Council, he wanted to withdraw the message in order to provide more targeted, concrete actions and, at the same time, to implement parallel measures to ensure more flexibility, in particular, on the actions, but that one would also have other measures in parallel. The big picture wants – at least the Christian People's Party is concerned about it – that it can come as quickly as possible, and that we can have a good dialogue around the message, so that we can ensure the best possible action to improve the quality of the actions. Can the State Council say something about when the message comes to Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3401	At any rate, the Council of State may notify Stortinget and the representative of Ropstad that the work has been started. We're going through the system of measures to start simplification. Then we look at, as I also announced in Stortinget earlier, whether we can lift a lot of the simplification work related to the response system out and get to the Stortinget separately with it, and then you work in parallel with getting a message. Now it's about a week and a half since the question came, so we can probably also report back that we haven't finished that work in a week and a half. A little more patience may be needed. But simplification is working actively; it is working actively to produce a new, more concrete message for Stortinget as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3410	On page 16 of the main comments of the Right and Advance Party, it states: ‘These members point to the fact that a well-functioning labour market is essential for each one to realise its dreams and ambitions. [[...]] It's quite ambitious. In the Official Journal of the European Union on 6 November, it states: «Young refugees from the construction industry. At the same time, the need for skilled workers is increasing’. There is a description that many of us experience every day, that construction becomes less attractive. Is the Council of State in agreement with Director of competence Are Turmo in the NHO that public requirements for apprentice clauses should be imposed? This means that one can only win contracts if one has apprentices on the project, for example in construction and road construction.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3429	I think the representative Lundteg raises an important question from several points of view. It is important to ensure Norwegian business – all sectors – the right skills and skills to handle the tasks to be carried out. Creating skills also leads to increased productivity, which is good. Another area in the construction industry is also important, namely to ensure that a decent working life is well in place. There is something that this government is concerned about: ensuring that we have a decent but competent working life in all sectors. So I don't want to go in and comment specifically on the person to whom it was referred in the question, because I don't know the article. I also do not know the background of the statements and would be able to put myself into it better before I go into that particular statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3438	I would like to ask you a question about a group that, unfortunately, has been bigger in our country, simply poor children. Both the government of Stoltenberg and the government of Solberg have proposed during this budget shed to abolish tax class 2 for couples. The left understands the intention behind it, that it should pay more to work, and I agree with that intention. Nevertheless, abolishing class 2 with a pen stroke is most likely to lead to a large increase in child poverty. We are therefore pleased that the government has chosen to listen to the Left and Christian People's Party and has landed on our model. My question to the Council of State is this: does he see that the abolition of class 2 would lead to an increase in poverty? And what remedial measures will he, as Minister of Social Affairs, take if the government now sticks to the objective of removing that tax class gradually?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3450	The Council of State will deal with the agreement reached in the Stortinget and with the decision taken by the Stortinget. So I think we're going to let eventualities lie down. But what is at least certain, and which takes me up a lot, is that I want to make sure that many people who are currently out of work get a closer link to the working life. Unfortunately, many people with immigrant backgrounds are out of work today. It is also important to ensure that more of them are brought into the labour market. Participation in working life, being able to earn their own money, will be the best condition for preventing poverty for both parents and not least their children.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3457	Some of the poorest children have single dependants who are unemployed. I think everyone understands that is hard. They need a better safety net. Then we have the transitional system, which is so today that you have to be qualified to get it beyond one year. There we added a change to that arrangement, so that it would pay more to go over and work a little – and more gradually. Then we also had to raise the social benefit to 2.36 G, so that no one lost on this scheme and got less money. Because we know that this is the group that has two and a half times as much risk as others to end up in permanent poverty. I was quite startled when I saw that the government has chosen to cut this scheme, so that single-parents can now risk getting up to NOK 6 800 less this year as a result of what this government has done. How can the Council of State justify this for some of the poorest families of children?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3468	Thank you for the question. It's an important question, which also concerns the Council of State. That is why I am very pleased that the government has put in place a good transitional arrangement. It's not right that we cut. The social benefit level of the day is 2 G. It's increasing to 2.25 G. In my head it's not a cut, it's an increase. At the same time, the government adds that those who combine transitional benefits and jobs get better incentives to move more into work. I think that's good. That makes sense. That's good for the families involved. At the same time, governments protect the people...
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3475	Spray!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3480	...about 3,000 single parents, who are responsible for children, who will not have negative economic consequences. So the calculations that Andersen's representative refers to, at least I don't know again, and they're protected in the arrangement that the government has presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3485	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3488	The northern regions were the government of Stoltenberg's main strategic field of activity. The North Sea initiative was not just a boost for the North environment — it was a national boost. This allowed us, who live in the north, to straighten out our backs and feel that we were no longer a clamp around our feet, as unfortunately many have felt before. It gave us pride, and it gave us optimism in many areas. We experienced that everyone was going to look north – with a positive look. This bet has been correct, and it has given results. We see that, for the first time in many years, the evolution of the people is turning around. The population is rising in all three northernmost counties – not in all municipalities, but in many municipalities. The common denominator of growing municipalities is more jobs both in new industries and in traditional industries. Here the municipality of Helgeland is an example. There, the marine food industry has contributed to the reversal of the negative population trend. Another example is Hammerfest. It's not the seafood that's to be credited for growth. But we're enjoying the growth. This was to be believed to be an inspiration for continuing to invest in the north and not least to invest in industrial development in the north, particularly with a government that has claimed that the North Region bet was too much word and too little action. It is also not possible to be offended by reading the government's political platform. On the contrary, it's actually going to be in a good mood when you get to the north, because you can, for example, read: «North regions have a high potential for value creation and the government will contribute to the realisation of this by the business community in the country.» Great, I say. So what does the government do? Well, the Foreign Minister is going to Tromsø on his first domestic visit. It can to this extent be called an action, but most of all a recognition of the work done. It's nice. But today we are dealing with the budget. Where do we find the measures to build up under the ambition to develop North Norway to become one of Norway's most creative and sustainable regions? Is it e.g. government proposal to shorten the CO2 compensation scheme to produce growth? At least there won't be growth in the lake, Mo in Rana, Straumen or Finnfjordbotn of that proposal. In North Norway, we have to recognise that it is a challenge that the capital environment is neither large nor many. Therefore, it is likely that regional development funds are being cut extra hard in the north. Some of these funds have also gone to Innovation Norway, which is an important player for particularly small and medium-sized enterprises in the country. Nor do the Competence Environments of the Proximity Centre in Tromsø feel that an exposed construction start for step two contributes to a lifting for them. Where is the continuation of what was naved in the bet, knowledge, when the Presenter also does not get drag help? After the Right and Advance Party carried out its most violent lifting breach in the north with an incredible speed, by scrapping the impact assessment of Nordland VI and VII and Troms II, other industries were promised to bet. It was very bad to provide a fishing industry in North Norway with profitability at all stages. Here we are sitting with the fasit -- a new promise break: the government is raging the growth package for the whitefish industry, which is mainly affecting the seafood industry in the north. They proposed to remove the special scheme under the legislation on permitting, which particularly affects the fishing industry in the north. The cutters in the fishing port development, which hit Summer Island in Troms and Napp in Lofoten. The rapporteur-in-Office of the Council, Mr Vestvågøy, writes that this affects the basis for foreseeable investment in the seafood industry in Lofoten. Today, the Minister for Transport expressed doubts as to whether these ports should be repaired at all. That I wish to return to the government of Stoltenberg's Northern Region bet, no one is surprised, but for everyone in the north who believed in the election vows and the fine formulations of the government parties, that doesn't help either. Although we have little trains in the north, here we have at least witnessed the retreat of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3518	The government parties went to the elections to strengthen the police. Even at first opportunity, the government does just that. That's what I call executive power. In this context, I would also like to thank you for the good and constructive cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left. With the framework for the justice sector adopted today, preparedness in Norway will be strengthened, the basic staffing of the police will be increased and the context of the criminal action chain will be improved. In order to achieve a secure community, we are dependent on the presence and effectiveness of the police, on rapid and secure criminal proceedings and on criminal law responses that send out clear signals that undesirable behaviour is not tolerated. Judgments must be given a real opportunity to live a life free of crime through acquittal and other criminal executions. A strong neighbourhood police force is essential to create more security in society. Police need to be upgraded to meet the crime challenges of the future. The strengthening of the police is contributing to a more visible police force. There is a need to increase the number of police-trained and civilian staff in order to release police force to the police’s core tasks and to contribute to special competencies in priority areas. Police districts must have the opportunity and the means to recruit the newly educated police high school students in the police department. The increase in the appropriations for the courts shows that the government sees the whole chain of criminal proceedings. Our courts deliver top quality, and the employees are highly qualified. The number of stays has increased in several courts in recent years. This is due to the budgets of the outgoing red-green government. In cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left, the government parties are turning this negative trend. The government has immediately presented measures that will lead to the release of a total of 88 prison sites. It is proposed to grant increased funds to extend the settlement capacity by 70 new places within existing prisons, 50 of which, using so-called doubles. Dualisation appears to be necessary, given the current situation, in order to provide the police with a sufficient number of custody facilities. It is positive that increased appropriations for the implementation of reconciliation in institutions are proposed. This will also release 18 prisons, while the measure could have a positive impact on criminals with drug problems. For the cooperation parties, voluntary organisations are an important complement to the repatriation work with convictions. The increase to these organisations is therefore very joyful. In the field of preparedness, many key actors are strengthened. Civil defence is provided with funds for equipment, the daily civil situation centre of the Ministry of Justice and Defence comes into place, and the appropriations for the Head Rescue Centre are greater than the red-green proposals. In addition, Kripos, PST and the emergency team are strengthened. This helps to strengthen society’s preparedness. The strengthening of police by the Cooperation Party is clear. This strengthening will ensure better preparedness and increased police force. At the same time, there will be more resources for prevention, investigation and prosecution. When the media are filled with issues of rape and robbery, it is our job to stress how important it is to see the context in the police's prioritisation of various issues. For the Right, prevention, investigation and prosecution will always be an essential part of these tasks. In the past, the size has gathered on a number of measures to combat organised crime. I would like to stress that this is a demanding and long-term work. For government parties, this is a priority area. Threats to society change rapidly. The development of the cyber domain is one of the clearest examples of this. Where the responsibility is placed on many hands today, we will look at the possibility of clarifying this responsibility. I am pleased with the Minister of Justice's commitment to violent extremism. This was one of the first things he took on as a state council. So with this government, we have gained power of action and replaced understanding. With such a start, I look forward to the continuation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3548	In the change of line with the parliamentary leader of the Advance Party earlier today, I was confirmed that the original priority from the blue-blue was good and desired. So we have to prepare for what we saw on November 8th is something we have to get used to. This means poor future budget proposals with major challenges in this big room. There are proposals where we are invited to spend significantly more oil money to finance future unfair tax cuts – tax cuts that increase differences, and where those who make several million dollars receive tens of thousands of dollars in tax relief, while ordinary incomes are eaten off with a few hundred patches. There will be greater differences – a strong contrast to what the Workers' Party will prioritise in the future. With regard to our relationship with the world's great challenges, in the light of what was heard earlier today, we need to be prepared for relief and a reduction in the will to bet on the world's poor – in the management of our great wealth with blue-blue priorities – this also in stark contrast to what the Workers' Party will prioritise in the years to come. We must also be prepared that today's government will continue to show a lack of will and ability to take the climate challenges seriously. We have already seen a cut in the rainforest bet and cut in the investment at the technology centre at Mongstad, which was to contribute to new knowledge and new technologies for Norwegian industrial companies. We have seen cuts in Gassnova, and earlier today we have even seen that the Political Spokesman of the Progress Party would not answer the question of whether there are man-made climate change that we need to do something about now. If you interpret this, one part of the blue-blue government is undoubtedly climate-denialists. In addition, over the last few weeks, we have witnessed government members thinking highly about an increase in tax deduction without being included in the budget. This has at least led to the risk of a market collapsing, and the Norwegian Heat Pump Association writes that if things are not carried out, they assume that half of the 3,000 employees in the industry will disappear in the next year. It is not the largest field, but these are not very nutritious statements or particularly wise approaches to a business that needs predictability. In today's economic survey, on which much attention has been paid, the NHO underlines the importance of long-termity and predictability. This was one example of the opposite. Another is the Solberg government's proposal to cut dramatically in terms of the CO2 compensation scheme for industry. The proposal bore witness to only one thing: that the government completely lacked insight into the industry's need for long-term framework conditions. The question now, after it appears to have been cleared up, is whether the proposal of the Right and the Advance Party may nevertheless have negative consequences. Many signals were sent from Norwegian industrial environments to Stortinget, and they just suggest this. Hydro director Halvor Molland said this: ‘These sudden and unexpected changes in the framework conditions make planning for the future even more demanding. Large, long-term investments in Norway — as we have seen in recent years — are becoming more difficult to imagine. More clearly, it cannot be said that what the blue-blue government has done so far is to create significant unforeseeability for important industries for Norway. In fact, it must have been on the way to government offices that the blue-blue government partners changed their attitude from going from something they were in for to be against the CO2 compensation scheme. It's doubtful that you're weakening predictability. In a time of weak markets and strong global competition, what Norwegian industry might least need is precisely what it needs. Therefore, the size must – I think – have as principle and political orientation that Norwegian industry should be subject to good, competitive and predictable framework conditions, especially as long as the blue-blue government is not able to see that need for itself. Part of this will be the maintenance of the CO2 compensation scheme as a fully-fledged scheme during the contractual period until 2020. It is good that the government is now in favour of our original proposal, but the challenge is there anyway. It is absolutely necessary that these long-term assumptions for Norwegian industry should not be sacrificed in a balancing item in order to meet the tax burden.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3579	The media image is quite clear: it is not covered the table Right-wing Party government comes to it, as Arne Strand described it in the Newspaper in 2005 when the red-green enter government offices. It is rather alarming when the representative and the former State Council have claimed earlier in the debate today that he is leaving behind an economy where the alarm clocks are ringing, and the NHO believes that it is an emergency stop. This says a lot about eight years of red-green lack of focus on a completely fundamental imbalance, which they've let evolve constantly over these eight years. In the Norwegian economy, cost developments from 2005 to 2013 have been disconnected from productivity development. An ever-increasing gap between a cost increase that far surpasses our trading partners, and an productivity growth that is weaker is against us in every single national budget in recent years. This is not sustainable, unless we estimate that our exchange relationship with the rest of the world continues to develop as favourable as it has since the beginning of the millennium. If it happens, as a nation, we're going to have an unlikely luck. The calculation of the exchange rate by the Bank of Norway and the SSB is very interesting reading. Never before have we seen more positive results for Norway than we have seen in recent years. When former Minister of Finance Sigbjørn Johnsen presented the original budget of the year from the red-greens, he said: ‘Even after the fall in the value of the last crown, the level of costs in Norway is much higher than that of our trading partners. If prices of Norwegian exports were to fall, it would require the best cooperation to bring costs down to a sustainable level.’ I see this as a strong recognition that red-green development was not sustainable. The red-greens tried to correct with a careful use of oil money – they should have – but failed to align their use of money to promote Norwegian competitiveness and productivity. The lack of focus for eight years has revealed that the warning lights are now blinking. In its main comment in the setting, the opposition makes an exchange rate a point in terms of oil money usage. Those who follow will have registered that the Norwegian krona has continued to weaken after the government change. The currency markets obviously do not fear the use of money. They see that the budget has turned in the right direction. The Norwegian economy tolerates the use of oil money when used to increase its competitiveness. The NHO has earlier this year pointed out that the level of investment in mainland Norway is very low. It's been so low in recent years that we haven't been able to replace the consumption of capital, that is. depreciation. There is, in principle, a exit strategy for many of the traditional businesses that the red-greens have followed. This is the nucleus of the two division. We must be happy as long as the oil can bear this, but there must also be room to invest again for growth in mainland Norway. Developments will then have long-term sustainability. It is therefore gratifying that the supplementary proposal demonstrates a willingness to give priority to the important measures. An offensive industrial policy must focus on strengthening local private ownership. This ownership is a driver of innovation and innovation, and without available equity there will be no solid jobs. A slowdown in wealth taxes is good music. The same is true of the focus and focus on transportation. It will take many years to recover in this area, but the direction is indicated. Nutritional research has been treated in a vote for several years, despite the fact that it is where the germ of future jobs lie. Increased bet on the BIA and strengthened the FUNN was strongly longing. Agriculture is once again a central theme of Norwegian policy – it delights a pagan representative – and it is not just due to ostetoll. Forestry is a competitive industry with a red-green policy that has been under intense pressure. It cheers over a government focusing on competitiveness. Agriculture is in focus, because we've got a government that has an ambition to give ownership back to the farmer, and with ambitions to give the farmer greater freedom and discretion over his own strategies. This is an ambitious project. There is no industry that to those degrees has been dominated by political governance as Norwegian agriculture. This has not given rise to optimism and development. A new course is needed. The new government has done an impressive job in a short time. Competitiveness and development and solid jobs for the future remain in focus.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3606	It's going well in the country. The Solberg administration has certainly not taken over any bankruptcy property – or estate, if I can call it that, even if they have been ready to remove the inheritance fee. In fact, the government has taken over the governance of a country with high value creation, small differences, high employment, low unemployment, good welfare offers and equal opportunities, although it has blown us around in the countries of Europe. But we have been given a new political direction in Norway. The government's changes in the budget are marked by an increase in differences, including in industrial policy, especially in relation to increased differences between cities and countries, and it looks like many of the promises that came into the election campaign are being expounded with the same rhetoric: we've only had three weeks, and it's not so quickly done to get things in place. But it only took four days to cut the taxes to the richest of 8 billion. kr. This was said by a proud finance minister to today's industry on 9 November. It is clear what societal tasks there are most urgent to satisfy, and what social groups will gain – those who had given the most support to the Right and the Advance Party in the election campaign. The same thing happened when George W. Bush took over as president. He also spent only a few days after accession before presenting a gigantic tax cut package for US billionaires, under the heading ‘Tax Cuts for Job Creators’ – a well-known argument from the Norwegian debate as well. Without any professional foundation, the right-hand side of every country continues to produce unsocial tax cuts that most people will earn. But that's the opposite of it. The wealthiest tax havens are covered by increased oil money consumption without professional justification. It is an irresponsible gambling with industrial workplaces and can contribute to an enhanced two-way division of the economy – contrary to the Progress Party and the Right's own rhetoric in the election campaign. The Labour Party also responds to the government's cuts in important district industries such as agriculture, tourism and fisheries. The Government’s desire to remove competitive schemes such as the CO2 compensation for industry is also provocative. And the government's desire to cut down the lay-off arrangements, which are actually involved and help to underpin employees' rights in demanding times, is the wrong path. The government has removed the inheritance fee, but does not see the whole connection around the handles, so the consequences for the farmers are tax incentives, that is, the opposite of what they were promised by the Right and the Advance Party in the election campaign – at least in the debates I took part in. The government increases the differences between cities and countries through the instruments of the instrument, where they cut regional development funds. The government is pursuing an active industrial policy and is moving rapidly into a business-neutral direction, bringing forward tax cuts and general arrangements. The government has talked about growth promotion, increased competitiveness and access to the international market. It is then a little wonder that the government in the budget draws Norway out of the new EU programme, where small and medium-sized enterprises should be able to contribute to increasing competitiveness and access to international markets. This is where you cut out to be on the show. The Labour Party has shown for eight years that we have had an active industrial policy, where we have focused on industries with natural advantages. We have improved and strengthened the instrument, focused on business simplification, predictable framework conditions, and the job of opening up new markets to Norwegian business through free trade agreements and access to the internal market. Active enterprise policy has produced good results for a growth-enhancing business throughout the country. We see a new political direction in which the government stopped the growth package for the whitefish industry – a new concern. The fact that we have such high levels of professional participation in this country is a competitive advantage for Norwegian business. Now we see that the government will make it less profitable to work through its immature family policy, for the maximum price in kindergartens will increase, the paper will be reduced and the cash support will be increased. We need a modern family and working life policy, a policy that embraces and sees the whole country, that brings the whole people to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3636	It has been a predictable debate in many ways, and the representative Lundteg was no exception. In his speech, he voiced a crass criticism of the situation in Norwegian working life and blamed the increased impact of the EU and a dark blue free-flow policy. The alleged influence of Lundtigen refers to, yes, it is the EEA Agreement. It is free movement of goods and services – i.e. the internal market – and this may or may not be the same, but the fact is that it strengthens Norway. The 20 years we have had the EEA Agreement have been the 20 most successful years for the Norwegian economy. As a foreigner, we have less — perhaps none — influence. The government parties want us to use this space of action that lies there. Norway shall be listened to in several areas: energy, climate, maritime sector, knowledge, innovation — to mention something. There are other people out there who are also developing policies, as we do here at home. We have to hit them, we have to discuss them, we have to develop policies with them. This is what the new government wants to do. It's a fact that a lot of the policies that affect us are decided in Brussels, and after eight years in government, probably Lundtigen and the Center Party experienced it. The new government has taken over the fact that 80 pst. of our exports go to the EU, and that 70 pst. of our imports come from there. In many sectors of Norway today, there is a shortage of labour. The EEA area is becoming increasingly important for Norwegian enterprises to find the relevant labour force. Today's government has seen this. Norwegian foreign and development policy under the new Solberg government shall be based on clear priorities, anchored in liberal values and with the main aim of safeguarding central national interests. In its platform document, the government says that Norway should be a credible, trusting player in the work of more democratic solidarity. A foreign policy based on binding international cooperation ensures that the main lines of Norwegian foreign and development policy are firmly established. And Norway should be an active contributor – in the UN, in NATO and in other international organisations – and pursue offensive European policies aimed at increasing participation and influence through the EEA Agreement and Norway’s other agreements with the EU. The Solberg government has taken active action to strengthen the cooperation lines of our largest trading partner, the EU, and our new minister responsible for the EEA area is a very important step in this direction. State Council Helgesen has also expressed an ambition to involve Stortinget more in such cases. It's an important grip, and we're looking forward to the continuation. The Government’s objective is also to maintain a high level of international aid and development. While aid policy is an important foundation for the fight against poverty and poverty, development policy is an equally important instrument for ensuring positive developments in the long term and helping to make basic social machinery work. From the Right, we're going to stress the government's increased investment in the world's most vulnerable and poor through $30 million. IDA, and provide us with more effective assistance for the people of the 80 poorest countries of the world. Development policies aimed at specific areas such as health, education and business development ensure targeted development and lay the foundation for a modern and forward-looking policy in this area. This government is committed to giving priority to access to good educational institutions, health services and jobs where people can develop and work long-term out of poverty. Through the administration of 50 million. kr to the Global Partnership for Education has shown such a willingness for leadership in this area. Similarly, this clear priority of women’s and women’s education reflects a marked political will. The government places the emphasis on business as an important player in development policy. By involving actors other than governments, the government ensures that these contribute to the growth and development of developing countries. Therefore, the increase in government lot appropriations is 50 million. kr to projects under the direction of Norfund important. This will increase the targeted investment in renewable energy. To use an expression from a former Red-Green Minister of Assistance, who had clearly seen the light: we have to move from assistance to business.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3655	Today's government parties criticized the red-green government for not having a profile or a joint project for their government – a project that showed community direction. Each year, the draft budgets have been characterised as embossed and grey by the Right and the Advance Party. The only joint project we had was to stop the right forces. The fact that the right parties did not see the red-green government's project of caring for and developing the welfare community is not surprising. More surprising is that they themselves, the new government, have not provided for an overall joint project, for which they will work. Instead, the eight so-called projects in the Sundvolden Declaration, together with many individual cases. In addition, they have a cooperation agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, which also contains many different individual matters. But there is no clear profile for the government project, either on the government basis or in the budget. So they give us the power of definition in terms of profile. And that is what we have all used here in today's debate. I find it difficult to see any other joint project that the right parties have, other than that they had a common wish before the election to stop the red-green project. When the Stoltenberg government presented its proposal to the state budget, Prime Minister Solberg's comment to those who had received the money was that they should not rejoice too early. Although the government seemed to have a short time to come up with the new ideas and the better solutions and show the effectiveness of implementation, her comment on the budget was not to be misunderstood. There would be a new proposal from the Solberg Government, with radical changes. And it was just supposed to be missing. The list of changes must have been clear for eight years, and there are many promises. It is possible that the Health Declaration has already been exhausted for good ideas, for many changes are not. The Solberg government will largely be guided by the red-green budget proposals, with some exceptions. That's good, because it's a good proposal. In the draft budget, which tells of the priorities of the Solberg Government for 2014, it is certainly the shift of fiscal policy and family policy in a conservative direction, which is the most visible priority, and which can bear bids for a different policy direction. Tax policy gives more to individuals who already have the most. Family policy withdraws women to the kitchen bench. Through, inter alia: prioritisation of more cash support at the expense of kindergartens – which gives unpredictability to parents seeking kindergarten, reversal of parental leave, reintroduction of class 2 and other proposals – does not give flexibility and freedom of choice to families. On the contrary, freedom of choice is lost with these proposals, and this could lead to less equality. Norway has been seen as an international driver of a family policy that has stimulated women and men to work outside the home, through education policy, labour policy, good leave arrangements and the development of kindergartens — which has helped to build the welfare society we have today and which people want. Now let's take some steps back. In the debate today, I hear representatives from the Right and the Progressive Party boasting of the changes of the Solberg government and additions to the Stoltenberg government's draft budget and calling it historic. I have to say that I had expected far greater changes – yes, in fact, a total shift in areas such as transport, economic policy, business policy and education policy. After eight years of constant criticism of the policy of the red-green government, one has to expect clear priorities from the first moment, but these were just empty words. Instead, the historical and record rush is all the breakups. For example, every year the Progress Party has been very clear that tolling from the drivers to finance the development of roads in this country is road robbery. They have promised to remove the bombs in a campaign after a campaign. After the choice, the tone of the progress game is different. The party has come into government, and the party in government is something else. Now the Progress Party will both continue today's toll projects and start up new ones – contrary to what they have promised. In fact, the Minister for Transport has travelled to some municipalities with less toll projects that did not have sufficient toll base, such as in Seljord, or which were still due to close in a short time, such as in Uppland, and brought with him news that these would end. It is not this party that has promised this year after year. Expectations are skyrocketing to state full funding of the road network. The progress party apologizes for having only 16 psts. by the votes of the voters, and thus they do not have such an influence on the government. Well, there had not been any Solberg government without these 16 percent from the Progress Party. What they have not achieved, they have negotiated away. Transport was not important enough for the Progress Party. It is such a breach of promises that creates political disdain.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3674	I have to say it's fun to be at a financial debate where you already see the outlines of what's going to be a good Right Party-Christian People's Party-Left Policy for the next four years. I see a budget that in a few weeks became considerably more effective than most people saw before the budgetary process started. There are significant tax reliefs. There's a significant investment in school. And as both the supplementary proposition and the conciliation came, and with the rumors of aging, which is coming soon, we get a big deal on transportation, on which I think the red-green representatives in the Storting are quite envious. One of the cornerstones of Norwegian society is high employment. For the individual, having a job means personal development, familyly speaking, means a stable income, and not least, it means participation in a social arena. The government's objective is a safe and flexible labour market that ensures low unemployment and high employment. A well-functioning labour market is essential for each one to realize his dreams and ambitions, and it is worth working. This is why the government has, among other things, proposed to reduce the overall tax on labour to 27 pst. and thus assimilate it to the capital tax. When many are at work, the funding of welfare schemes becomes stronger and simpler. Being outside the labour market is therefore a major challenge – not just for individuals, but for society as a whole. Therefore, the government will work to include more people in the labour market. Some groups have challenges. We've seen it in people with disabilities. We see it in particular in immigrants, who are hit by the greatest increase in unemployment that comes. But we also see it in particular in people who are young and who have not completed education or who have not received education at all. I am therefore very pleased that the Right-Fremskrit party government is increasing the number of action places for people with disabilities by 3000 places compared to the State budget for 2013. There's also 1,000 more than the red-green government suggested. In the budgetary agreement, which we have achieved together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, we strengthen and highlight the opportunities offered by social entrepreneurship. It is gradually emerging from social entrepreneurship actors, and the field has become wider and wider. They demonstrate how the private sector can be an important contributor to the work around including in jobs, and to get people to work, and not least to get people out of work, to get to work and stay at work, and thus to be shown trust in a whole new way. The right-wing Party government has said that we want to seal the holes in the security network for groups that are currently falling through. This includes, inter alia: to look at what is happening in families with high levels of poverty and how it affects their children. Several adults need basic skills and an offer of literacy training. The supply of drugs and mental health will be strengthened by this government. Children in child protection care and youth during drug treatment should be ensured a better adapted training provision. We come in a completely different way than the red-green government to strengthen cooperation with the volunteer organizations in this work. Employment is increasing. In 2013, employment has increased by over 30 000 people, and the unemployment rate is now around 30 000. 2.5 pst. to 2.6 pst. It shows that we have a low unemployment rate, but it also shows that we have a workforce reserve of over 80,000 people with disabilities and working skills that do not get into the labour market. Therefore, it is important to provide good response sites. The government proposes nearly 70000 places in 2014, where the vast majority are for people with disabilities. In this budget, the Right-Fremskritsparte Government strengthens the allocation of activity aids to persons over 26 years of age with a budgetary impact of 30 million. kr. These are the means by which we will have a fully funded scheme from 1 July this year. The resources are important to ensure the quality of life of disabled people through better organised activities. The government will work for Norway to be a country with small differences and minimal poverty. The main measures to combat poverty are a good school that combats social differences. Through the cooperation agreement with the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, we will present a poverty package aimed at children. We are already in the budget to be dealt with for a short time, to present concrete proposals that strengthen cooperation with non-governmental organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3712	I've presented myself as an intelligent Westerner earlier today, and I am. But sail wise Westerners can fire up, and I have a particularly short fad when it's talking about increasing differences. The new government is proposing a budget for increased disparities. The majority cancel eleven months of study support, the maximum price in kindergarten and two kindergarten admissions per year; all to give tax cuts to those who have the most in the past. Taking from kindergartens and students to give large tax cuts to millionaires will create increased differences, and I'll go as far as to call it a generationan. At the same time, the government is increasing the use of oil money to a record high level. Nor is it convincing that the economic situation calls for an increase in the use of oil money. And what's the money spent on? The main priority is tax cuts. Those who make over 2 million. kr, gets NOK 40 000 per year, while people with normal and low incomes get three to four hundred patches. The pension fund exists for future generations. Taking billions from the fund to give big tax cuts to those who have the most today will create increased differences. It's a generationan for real. The government is clearly indicating the direction they are taking for the country. I think they're making the wrong choices for the future, and the students agree with us. It's being mobilized all over the country for the full-time student. They want student heroes. They will have 11 months of study support, and they will maintain the free principle. Families with children who want kindergarten are in agreement with us. I meet people who are against an old-fashioned family policy every day. They want a maximum price. They want two babysittings a year, and they won't reduce the paper size. Women who sail will determine their own bodies agree with us. We have received hundreds of e-mails against the right of reservation for doctors. The industry, which will have predictable framework conditions, agrees with us. A massive mobilization by industry, LO and NHO caused the government to reverse the CO2 compensation system, but the measures that weaken the workline are still there. I believe the Right Party government reinforces the two-part division of the Norwegian economy. Active business policy has been implemented. Rather, the government chooses to use the extra oil money on its main choice: tax cuts. It is neither growth-promoting nor forward-looking. It's a policy that will create increased differences, and it's a generational one. In the Workers' Party, we would rather give a stronger priority to fair distribution. We want 1 pst. to assist, implement the cultural promise, and we will help refugees in need. We give more priority to teaching and health, police and railway, without taking money from future generations. With the same outlook, we are focusing more on climate and the environment. The working party will spend more money preserving the rainforest. We want to invest in technology development, and we believe that the most polluting cars will have to pay more for their emissions. That's what I call a policy for future generations. But these proposals do not get a majority. For Norway, there has been a new government that will have a policy for increasing differences, which is responsible for an old-fashioned family policy, and which reinforces the bipartite divide of the Norwegian economy. The government’s proposal is the opposite of what Norway needs to meet future challenges. But the right thing is right: the government clearly shows which direction they choose for the country. But I think they're making the wrong choice – the wrong choice for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3738	So far in this debate, the red-green opposition has been terribly concerned that the government has to hurry to implement all that the opposition is against. It's kind of strange to sit and listen to an opposition that's very provoked, both because the government is leading a new policy and because it doesn't have enough new policies. We got a certain warning about how the red-green opposition struggles to find out what it really is against already during the debate after the Minister of Finance's presentation of the supplementary proposition earlier this autumn. During that debate, SV's Snorre Serigstad Valen concluded that he could almost hear the champagne corks sprang up in the Holmenkollocken. But just before the representative Serigstad Valen's posts, the representative Jonas Gahr Støre of the Workers' Party had determined that the additional proposition was a silent nodding to the main features of the budget of the Stoltenberg government. The logical consequence of these two statements is that either SV and the Workers' Party are already fundamentally in disagreement as to why they are against the sitting government, or then the red-green budget, to which the Right and the Advance Party obviously sat still and nodded, must have created great enthusiasm in the Holmenkol lock. It may be that the posts were written on autopilot before any of the two representatives mentioned had seen the supplementary proposal. The change of government we received in the autumn came as a result of a clear message from the voters on 9 September. They wanted a new policy. In some areas it was a desire for completely new policies, while in others it was a desire for political implementation. In today's debate, we have seen a red-green opposition that is no longer so concerned about discussing important political challenges, such as: education policy, but which, on the other hand, criticises it for the sake of criticism. In fact, even the Labour Party’s head of the Education Committee of the United Kingdom was only in terms of education policy in his five-minute speeches. But there are great differences in school policy, if not in word, so at least in action. In the election campaign, almost all parties said they were followers of a teacher's vow, but now that we have seen the red-green budget and the Right and the additional proposition of the Advance Party after the election, we see that it is the Right-Fremskrit Party government, in good cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left, which actually grants the money for such a teacher's vow. With the Right-Fremskrittspart-government, the bet increases by more than 300 million. kr. 750 more teachers receive continuing training. In addition, 100 more school leaders receive the necessary additional training they have requested. It is good that we can agree on the problem description in Norwegian school before a choice, but it is quite different to put the money behind the fine words when the election is over. That's what the bourgeois parties do. The red-green parts don't. In the election campaign everyone also agreed that we had to get a lift for the professions. We know that too many drop out of professional orientations and that for a few students there is a place for apprentices. There's a reason it's like this. It's too small an incentive for companies to take in apprentices, and education is for theorizing. That's why we're doing something about it. The budgetary agreement reached in Stortinget provides for an increase in the apprenticeship allowance, so that several enterprises actually include apprentices. In addition, the four lots provide for a new grant scheme to stimulate more enterprises to recruit apprentices. We know that many of the professionals want to get into businesses or institutions to see what has been happening in the field in which they teach. That's why we're increasing the appropriations so that more people get the opportunity. It creates better vocational education, because good and up-to-date teachers provide good and up-to-date apprentices. In order to counteract theories of teaching, the four bourgeois parties also provide 900 more teachers with training in the practical field of community education. In this way, teaching can become more relevant to students, and we can get rid of it. Together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, the Right-Fremskrit Party government has provided a real boost for the professions already in this additional proposition, and there are clear promises to strengthen and continue the effort. Much may indicate that the citizens now are the only ones to bet in school, both in word and in deed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3761	The blue-blue government has presented its first government budget. This is primarily a budget marked by withdrawals and broken election promises. The right parliamentary leader, Greece, said earlier today that this statement is to take the rhetoric to new heights. Maybe it is, but we have to be able to point out what the government parties promised the voters that they would do when they got the power, and what they actually come with, now that reality has caught them. This is not just a rhetorical exercise, to which Greece is trying to twist it, but a duty we have to demonstrate, as an opposition in Norwegian democracy, both what they have been elected to, why they have been elected, and what they do with what they have been chosen to do. I understand that the representative of Greece feels it is unpleasant suddenly to have to be responsible and admit that for them too, two plus two must become four, at least when one is in government. Our red-green government led a responsible and comprehensive policy, and we have promised nothing more than we have been able to hold. Now the new government parties, the Right Party and the Advance Party, are to be measured by their promises – promises that we pointed out in the election campaign that it was not possible to enforce if a responsible economic policy were to be pursued. What is most serious about the blue-blue government budget is the clear direction they choose for the country: the budget brings increasing differences in Norway, with tax cuts to those who have the most from before, and only a few hundred copies to people most, or to ordinary people. The government is responsible for an immature family policy by making kindergartens more expensive, they drop the promise of multiple babysitting, they reduce the paper size, and they increase the cash support. So they make the situation more difficult for families with young children. The government reinforces the two-way division of the Norwegian economy with measures that weaken the working line, combined with increased oil money use. The worst part is that the increased use of oil money is spending it on tax cuts for those who already have the most. This direction is not growth-promoting – as several representatives from the blue-blue forfects here today. In the field of transport, I would like to stress that it is good that the government in the agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party has increased the appropriations and given more to road and rail. So are we going to do the same thing. We're going to spend $600 million. kr more to strengthen the railway maintenance and planning of the intercity routes, and I am pleased with that. But what the blue-blues deliver on transportation is not in the vicinity of what they said they would do from day one, if they came into government. What perhaps amazes me the most is that the blue-blues are now going to deal suddenly with the adopted red-green national transport plan, and not with their own proposals for the NTP. It is precisely here that the broken electoral commitments are made, because both the Right and the Advance Party have promised many and new concrete road projects in addition to our record initiatives in the National Transport Plan. In its proposal for the NTP, the Progress Party had a framework of 455 billion. kr larger than the red-green ones. Where are they going to find the money for this? It'll be exciting to see. In the case of bombs and tolls, there is a lot of promise. The Progress Party has promised to remove all the bombs in Norway. Bård Hoksrud even told them to be removed from day one if they came into government. Then I think it's important that we remind each other that the collection of tolls on projects under way and planned on the national roads represents a total of 97 billion. kr for the next 10 years. It is a formidable sum, to be taken from some place when it is to be covered in. But then, in the name of justice, I'm going to say that the government has proposed to remove and delete some bomb projects, but it's a bomb blast that amounts to 0.8 pst. of the total toll financing over the next 10 years. One thing is that they cut tolls, but while doing so – and that is the big paradox – we have here in the Chamber proposed road projects with partial toll financing for the double of what they cut. It has only been done in this harvest session, and the Progress Party has also voted in favour. I will not dwell too long on broken election promises in this round, but I am excited about how the government is going to follow up its great election promises in the transport sector, and not least find the means to do so, because the election promises in this sector come in addition to all the other promises in all the other areas. We in the Workers' Party stand for our policies, for our promises. We promise no more than we can. It has been said by several here today that the government that is now sitting has been elected because of its priorities, but that is exactly what is the challenge, because there were no priorities in the election campaign. That's what they're going to do here, which they're going to be measured afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3778	After hearing the outcome of everything from tax bills to Willoch's deregulations in the 1980s in the hall here today, I wanted to share the story of my grandmother. She left family and friends at the farm in North Norway to seek happiness in Oslo in 1949, and was assigned to a medical family in Helgesen Street on Grünerløkka. She's actually saying she was at the end of the day with Wena Gerhardsen, but I'm not quite sure about it, really. Grandma hasn't made a class trip. She went from being a maid to being a hotel room nail, and from there she went up to the degrees as a waiter, a profession she completed her working life in. When Grandma heard that I had signed in to the right, she said: I remember when Willoch came to power – I got more for the pay. What she remembers is that she could afford to buy a warm winter robe on one payroll, instead of having to save from one month to the next. She also remembers that as a lonely woman, she could buy herself a better place to live after the Right Deregulated Housing Market in Oslo. Now she lives in a tree-room apartment on the Wettvet in the Groruddalen, where I grew up. Since she's a careful woman, she's paid off the apartment and saved almost her entire pension for almost 25 years, she's actually qualified for the Reichingstamp, which is then distributed rustly from the left. Politics can make a difference in people's lives, whether it's about taxes that give a little bit in the payroll bag, or by removing regulations that restrict people. I don't think the red-greens realize that most people see it as a punishment for a hard work life and a careful lifestyle, when someone wants to tax them harder than us who never earns us wealth because of consumption. It is not unwilling to contribute to the community, for they have done so – their whole lives. The Right Party and the Advance Party are aware of this, and that is why we are in government. For my part, I am quite impressed by how much we are able to meet our tax and tax commitments already now. I have been a little careful to say it when the Prime Minister can hear it, because she knows that I am on the right side of the party and can keep believing that one is going a little too fast, but I am already happy to go into debates with the Labour Party in 2017, when they are going to try to win the election by reintroducing the inheritance tax and the property tax – because I expect that after hearing the results of today's debate that the removal of these leads to increased differences. The introduction of a special tax that affects Norwegian jobs and Norwegian ownership is a safe winner – also for the Centre Party, I would think. But I'm going to admit that I've been a little worried about disappointed voters who haven't got so much tax havens, or so many fewer toll stations, as promised. I'm just a little surprised that so many of them represent the Working Party in Stortinget. But when that's said, I might have waited a year or two before I even talked about a breach of promises if I represented the party that went to the elections to eliminate poverty in Norway, but ended up eight years later with 15,000 more poor children as a result. But it's just me. Several today have referred to the statements on the outlook for the Norwegian economy and business. These are in stark contrast to the picture the opposition tried to draw from the Norwegian economy during the debate on the throne. After eight years of red-green government, it was claimed to be bottom-solid. I protested. For new listeners and for those who do not read the Vampus blog, they say this despite the fact that their own perspective message showed that the social democratic welfare state is not economically sustainable, despite the fact that we – ironically enough – became more oil addicted to what was supposed to be a red-green government, despite the fact that Vice-Chancellor Steinar Juel in Nordea says that Norway has never before had such a sharp deterioration in competitiveness as in the years after 2005. And even though Norwegian employment is high, we are close to the bottom of the OECD, measured by the number of hours worked per person in pre-employment. The dark outlook for the Norwegian economy that we saw glimpsed today is the real legacy of the red-green government. And they call us immature, when we've taken the signals and changed direction. When Norway went to the elections on 9 September this year, the voters gave the bourgeois block the largest majority of the blocks after World War II. I believe that after eight years the voters did not believe in the red-green rhetoric or in the red-green politics, and wanted a shift. They wanted a new government to take Norway further, and they got it. I believe, however, that the outlook for Norway is much brighter than it may seem. The Prime Minister said that this is a warning of difficult times, but not yet realized difficult times. Hopefully the change in government came in time. But then it is that the really great values of politics cannot be set up in a government budget table. That is why – and will be – this debate is a bit narrow. But I think we've finally got a government that wants to measure actually achieved results, not on good intentions or on the number of dollars granted. A government that puts man in front of systems is a pretty good start to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3801	Having heard the debate, I think it might be useful to recall that the Right Party and the Advance Party did not actually get a majority of voters to rule Norway and present their own budget. The right was given the confidence to be a sort of road sign, which in the government can point to the Advance Party, and in the Stortinge can point to the Left and Christian People's Party. The budget was unsolvable and environmentally hostile. The Christian People's Party and the Left reversed something, apart from cutting the number of refugees, among other things. The fact that the Christian People's Party is replacing 500 needy people who escape from war and hunger, against tax increases of hundreds of thousands of dollars a year for the richest, is a little hard to understand. In addition, gender equality policy has changed. Among other things, we will have: more expensive and fewer kindergartens and smaller papers. This does not meet the needs of young children’s parents for freedom of choice with regard to being both caregiver and employee on equal terms. I recognize myself. When my children were young, for approx. 40 years ago, there were also a few kindergartens – repetition of policies for the last generation, that is. Councillor Horne calls politics retro. Retro can be nice, but works bad. Who will drive around in an old Opel Captain, who swallows gasoline, is cold to sit in and dangerous to collide with, when they can run a Honda, with hot seats and airbags and going on environmentally friendly fuel? The party of progress appears clearly to be a reckless citizen of quality in content. It doesn't. The government's equality policy is not retro, it's inaccurate and immature. The core of the Workers' Party's political project is to support a society with little differences, no bigger, where people experience increased participation and belonging in small and large communities, no less, and where we have a high level of trust in fellow humans and systems. In the election campaign, the Right in West Agder said that there would not be a big cut in the municipal economy, there would not be a big cut in the welfare of the municipalities. Now we've got the result. The fatherland friend announced this afternoon that Vest-Agder will receive 18.6 million. kr less for the municipalities. Kristiansand gets $5.6 million. kr less. Then part of the rhetoric that has come from the right side of this pulpit today, about prevention and bet on weak in society, falls on stone floor. We have been given the answer to what no Right-wing politicians in West-Agder would answer before the elections. Community is important for the Workers' Party. Such communities include, inter alia: on the basis of a well-functioning justice policy. In order to have confidence, we first need to be sure that the state provides our security, that if we are subjected to injustice, there is a fair justice that prosecutes those who have committed the wrong, and that those who have done the wrong are given the opportunity to settle themselves. The new Minister of Justice has tried to give the impression that he has to clean up after the previous government. However, the truth is that in recent years the number of offences reported has declined, juvenile delinquency has fallen, and profit-criminality such as drug use has fallen. theft and burglary have fallen sharply. Our justice policy focuses on both prevention, increased penalties, more alternative forms of reconciliation and faster criminal enforcement. Local police are the foundations of prevention. The police have confidence in the community, know young people at risk, and cooperate largely with municipalities, child protection and schools. The Workers' Party will strengthen this cooperation. I am pleased that our government has done the work of increasing the proportion of police students and improving preparedness, being continued by the new government. We support a strengthening of the number of students and the efforts on standby. The position agrees with us to extend the criminal enforcement system with electronic control to 105 places. Our proposal to grant 19.5 million. kr for the implementation of the fine service from 2014 will turn the new government into a pilot project. I'm sorry. The government selects the double of cells, which is a security challenge and results in poorer rehabilitation. A young first-time zone could be at risk of having to divide cell 20 hours a day with someone who is in possession of serious crime. I don't think this contributes to a successful reversal. Large differences are not good for imprisoned young people, often marginalised before their criminal career starts. Greater differences are also not good for relatives or victims of serious criminal acts. Some people have or have poor advice and are struggling to get their daily lives to go up. Many of these are among those who can accommodate a few dollars a day in increased income from this government. Solidarity is not – prioritizing the richest. I don't think it's good prevention either.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3827	The climate and environmental problem is one of the most important challenges we face. The latest report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change clearly confirms the seriousness of both the fact that climate change is man-made and the urgent need for political solutions. A few days ago, the climate summit in Warsaw ended without having come particularly far – we should be glad that there was no total breakdown. But you're far from being where you should be, and we're starting to have a bad time. Several of the world's richest countries have taken full advantage of their backbones, both in terms of taking on commitments on cuts and in terms of making a financial commitment. The world's poorest country demands that we contribute to the worst affected by climate change, and they also expect action to be taken at national level. The climate problem requires both international and national responses and solutions. Internationally, Norway has given priority to forest management. A leadership role has been taken and funding has been provided. It has been important and good. Therefore, I must say that I think it is inconsequential that the government in its additional proposition weakens this ambition and funding. I am aware that they – after going a few rounds with their collaboration parties in Stortinget – have reversed parts of this cut, but I am concerned about how big ambitions the government actually has. If Norway is to take the climate problem seriously, it also requires us to do things nationally. Not that it will save the world from having a tough course to go beyond the two-degree target of global warming – until it’s a little too small – but it means that those countries that have contributed to emissions, which are rich countries, also contribute to cutting nationally. The transport sector is important in this context. It is good that there is a total bulking that is concerned with betting on, among other things. railway. But we also have to make demands on vehicles that are on our roads. That is why I am amazed that the government will remove the increase in CO2 emissions rates in the heavy duty vehicle charge that the red-green government provided. I may be even more amazed at what the government would do with the CO2 compensation scheme. The purpose of this scheme is to ensure that Norwegian industry maintains its competitiveness even at increased electricity prices, as a result of the need for European power plants to pay climate allowances for their emissions. It is far from a good climate policy that industry in Norway, based on renewable hydropower, is getting more costs and being forced to move to countries with far less stringent emission regulations than what we have here at home. I have come to realize that the government has been forced to kneel afterwards because the reactions to this cut were so strong. But it does not help in creating uncertainty and uncertainty. The damage has happened, because we and the rest of the world know what the Norwegian government really means. In addition, turning our heels on important framework conditions is a very bad signal to send, perhaps especially to foreign owners, especially when we know what the market looks like and what global competition is like. CO2 capture and storage will be an important contribution to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Getting new technology in place is necessary. When the government wants to cut the whole 100 out of 150 million. kr for upgrading the technology centre in Mongstad, and when they cut in the allocations to Gassnova and complete the tender process for full-scale production facilities, I believe you are going in the wrong direction. The climate agreement is crystal clear that we are going to bet, and I wonder what kind of contribution this is to the government has warned about getting a reinforced climate settlement – that is the opposite that happens. Working with climate is challenging. It requires resources, it requires courage and it requires will. So far, the blue-blue government has shown little will. I hope you might change a little bit of vision in the future. Here in Stortinget, at least the government – if you continue as today – will have great resistance from the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3855	Despite our challenges, we have relatively the world's best working life, both qualitatively and quantitatively, and we have one of the world's best welfare systems. These things are interconnected and interdependent. It has not come about by itself, it is not obvious that it should be just like that, it is the result of conscious policy choices and priorities over the years – just as political priorities in the years to come determine whether it should continue to be so. Where, over the last eight years, the Labour Party has prioritised measures that have ensured well-being and strengthened the working line, the Right Party, the Progress Party and the Left in this Chamber have prioritised tax cuts along with attacks on the Working Environment Act, the weakening of workers' rights and the resistance to the fight against social dumping. Today, when we are dealing with the first budget to which the new government has submitted its amendments, we clearly see a change of direction: large tax cuts, weakened welfare schemes – schemes that have been used to support the line of work, for example. kindergartens and the paper commission. We see an increase in cash support and an explicit measure of extra escalation and the preservation of class 2. The sum of all these changes we see today weakens the workline. This, together with a announced new course for working life through changed working time arrangements, several temporary jobs, and what I fear becomes a solid break in the fight against social dumping, makes this government already poorly new to Norwegian working life. Our common challenges in the future mean that we must strengthen and not weaken the workline. Our greatest challenge, perhaps, now and in the future, is social dumping and crime at work, which we see – despite the massive efforts of the previous government over eight years, with partly quite radical measures – have not been overcome. We see that it's still spreading. We've managed to stagnate development, but we have to move on. We presented a third action plan with new measures by June at the latest, measures by the government parties voted against. We will not rest in the Labour Party, we will continue to propose new measures in the fight against social dumping, because that will be necessary, and we are forward. The new government's position in the government platform is that the measures we have put in place should be evaluated before any new assessment can be made. It is, with respect to reporting, not only defensive, there is a notice of a step back and a setback in the fight against the unprofessional elements of Norwegian working life. We don't need any further evaluation. The previous government largely evaluated most of the measures. They've worked together. We need the ones we have, but there the government has also warned that they may be going to reverse some of the most accurate measures. Let them work. We need new measures to keep pace with developments, continue to prevent social dumping from taking new strangleholds on the serious part of our working life. The government’s attitude is to wait and see, and that new measures must have proved their right to exist before they are introduced. Waiting and looking at the need for action against social dumping are becoming dramatic. This means that the labour force is confused, that workers are exploited and every day pays the price for the government's repatriated attitude with the inhumane working environment and wages it is absolutely not possible to buy a winter robe with it in one or two or three months. The representative Asheim referred to the voters' desire for a new policy and direction. Well, on the employee's side there was no desire for such a new direction. The employee's side does not ask for solutions on the right, they do not ask for more temporary employment, more power on the employer's hands, more competition on wages and working conditions, for less permissive protection in times of uncertainty. A working life policy at the intersection Progress Party, Right and Left is bad news for most people. It's not forward-looking, it's backward-looking. The working party has a different course. We are the guarantor of a working life policy that combines flexibility with security, which addresses and meets the real challenges and needs of working life, and which is not based on old ideas and old solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3873	The overall objective of industrial policy is to maximise the overall value creation of the Norwegian economy. We're going to make sure that we use Norwegian resources in such a way that it brings the greatest benefit to society. We are to ensure that the level of taxation does not differ significantly from our neighbouring countries and trading partners, and that state framework conditions are growth-enhancing rather than growth-reducing. We're going to make it easier for business to do more research, so companies today are going to develop the products and services we're going to live on tomorrow. It is our job to create a business that is sustainable and adaptable, knowledge-based and innovative. With this as a guide, we will be able to preserve today's welfare society and further develop it in response to tomorrow's challenges and needs. To achieve this, we are dependent on good and predictable framework conditions. The government believes that a lower level of taxation while avoiding selective tax bases increases value creation and facilitates conversion and innovation. The government has already shown that we prioritise reliefs that will make the economy more growth-intensive, and we will also investigate the dynamic effects of tax relief. The government has proposed to reduce taxes on wealth. Such a change embraces the business world. Reduced rates can stimulate increased savings and investment in business as well. Reduced taxes on wealth can make it more attractive for Norwegian capital owners to place funds in Norwegian businesses. Family-owned enterprises are an important part of Norwegian business and contribute to long-term ownership and secure jobs. In order to facilitate the liquidity load of these companies at generation shifts, the government proposes to completely eliminate the inheritance tax. This will make it easier for family businesses to remain family businesses. This change will also stimulate saving and promote investment. We propose that the inheritance tax base be replaced by new tax bases. The proposal provides for equal rules irrespective of the form of a company and, as long as ownership continues, no immediate tax burden arises on the recipient's hand. We also need to evaluate the depreciation rates more closely. An area that is particularly important for our future value creation is that we focus significantly on increased research. This government will strengthen the incentives we have to promote research in and under the direction of business. Already in the additional proposal, we are giving significant priority to strengthening innovation-promoting projects. The government proposes to improve the tax FUNN scheme by raising the limit on the deduction of own R & D projects from 5.5 million. NOK, as at today, to SEK 8 million. kr. We're strengthening the system of user-driven innovation arena, BIA, by 80 million. kr. Economic policy is developed in many departments. Financial and monetary policy, the tax system, knowledge policy, labour policy, transport policy and environmental policy are all important conditions for business. The sum of these constitutes an overall industrial policy. This government has an ambition that improvements in all these areas will make it easier to start up and run businesses throughout Norway. We're going to have a policy that supports Norwegian business, that strengthens our competitiveness, and that makes us better equipped to compete with the rest of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3888	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3891	I want to start by saying to the Council of State: Welcome to Stortinget. Yesterday, the NHO economics survey showed that smaller investments were expected in 2014 and that we can move towards more demanding times, especially in the construction and construction industries, ICT and trade in goods. The Prime Minister said earlier today that the response to the challenges will be to strengthen competitiveness. How does the Minister for Industry see these challenges to be met? She would be willing to focus specific measures on individual industries if needed, as the red-green government did with, among other things. the paint package, or does she consider that more general measures in a more business-neutral direction would be important in the first place?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3898	What we heard yesterday and today is a temperature gauge of what business feels about the future, and we're going to take that seriously. But we should also remember the temperature that was before the financial crisis – and that no one saw it coming. So this is a sense of what can happen, but that's not the answer to what's actually going to happen. We believe that the budget that has now been presented, which enables us to increase competitiveness at growth-enhancing taxes, is good for business. So it's our task as government, of course, to follow very closely what's actually going to happen, and to implement the measures that are necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3903	The OECD report, which also came yesterday, clearly warned the government against increased oil money use. With tougher budget priorities, the government could have avoided increasing oil money use, but some priorities have been made by the government. A clear priority is to withdraw Norway from the new EU COSME programme, which would open the doors to small and medium-sized enterprises into the EU system and contribute to increased access to financial support, improve the flow of capital in the internal market, build up under new jobs and increase industrial competitiveness. All of these things are something that the Right often is concerned about. Does the Minister of Industry think that leaving COSME is stimulating increased competitiveness in business?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3908	Our assessment of COSME is that that program does not work as intended. We are too good EU programmes, including: in space research, on which we have been strongly involved, but we are not going to say yes to all EU programmes if we believe that they do not work well enough. Our assessment of that is that we're not going to go into that program.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3913	I'm going back to the temperature meter, as the council called it, the economic barometer from the NHO. I want to ask the Council of State, which also knows the business community: does the temperature meter she was presented with yesterday and today correspond to her own picture of the situation for Norwegian companies? If not, where does she think it might be a difference?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3923	During the weeks I have now traveled around and met business in the parts of the country that I have visited, I see a very different picture. Someone's worried, others aren't. Once again, I think this is a temperature meter that we're going to take seriously. 2,000 have reported a concern, we're going to take it seriously, but we're not going to believe that's the answer to what's actually going to happen. We have a two-part economy. It's clear that oil-related business is going very well, and that's very good. But we have a job to do in mainland Norway – and we do.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3930	I share the opinion of the Council of State that we should take seriously what business perceives. That's why you also have to take seriously the NHO's economics barometer, sail if that's not necessarily the answer. The government’s additional proposal involves a turnaround in industrial policy, from a more active and targeted industrial policy to a more business-neutral policy — and tax relief. A number of initiatives affecting the business sector in the districts experience cutbacks in this budget. It concerns the wood industry, the rural tourism, the marine sector, fisheries and agriculture. Thus, efforts in large continental and district industries are being reduced in this budget. At the same time, it must also be recognised that much of the tax burden proposed is personal, not business-related. Now, when it comes to reducing investment in major mainland and district industries for the benefit of tax relief, how convenient is the Minister of Industry to cut into schemes aimed at important district industries in this way, at a time when the economy seems to be slowing down?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3939	We're concerned with instruments that actually hit and that work. Unlike – perhaps – the previous government thought, that the ideas were geographically located, the wise heads were geographically located, we believe that the senses are fairly evenly distributed throughout the country. That's why we build up under the nationwide schemes, the good solutions. So we're going to go through the instrument carefully to see that they hit. But for large parts of the businesses that are out in the districts, and there are a lot of them, our investment in transport and our tax cuts are important for all the businesses around Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3945	I want to thank you for the article. Public sector instruments must stimulate more than they do at present for conversion and innovation. The left will release creativity and creativity, and we will bring forward important elements that the Council of State did not mention here – I think it could be in its place. We want a bet on entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs. We want a bet and a tip on the innovative environmental and climate-friendly business. This is why it is crucial for us to have access to secure risk capital through the public sector – to achieve this and to achieve our objectives. The concrete question is: does the Council share this view, and how will she follow it up?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3956	We have. In the additional proposition that has been put forward, we're betting on the Tax Fund, and we're betting on the BIA. There are now two seed funds – very important for innovation and innovation. We're going to bet on it, but then we have to get the chance to create an entire budget – not just a budget in a few weeks.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3961	The big picture when you see the budget from the new government is that it wants to move from the big regional bets and more to what might be called a more nutrient-neutral bet. But there's nothing that's nutritious, after me. If you look at my part of the country, North Norway, it's just the lack of capital that has made it a very accurate system of regional investments. When the government places emphasis on inheritance and reductions in wealth, etc., it has a negative impact on North Norway, where one loses opportunities to develop the continent. Where the capital is in Norway today, is in the south. So nutrition neutrality will favor those areas. So my question to the Council of State is, how will the Council of State facilitate the development of a part of the country like North Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3970	I just landed - from Tromsø. I've spent the day in Tromsø, and I've met representatives from the university and from the Research Park, and not least the exciting space research and the value chain that's there. They are calling for exactly what this government will invest in, namely nationwide schemes, seed funds and these kinds of schemes that make the wise ideas and the good environments, and they are also found in North Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3975	The chord shift has been completed. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e3980	In the West, the right-hand side prefers to present the government of the Right and the Advance Party as a Western government. Even with a prime minister and a Minister of Industry from the West, it is a fact that the policy that the government is pursuing is striking the industrial workplaces of the West very hard – negatively. The economy of the West is highly competitive. The West, if we rain the counties from Rogaland and up to More and Romesdal, stands for 40 pst. of mainland exports in Norway. Hordaland County, from which I come, stands alone for over 20 pst. of mainland exports. This is much attributed to the power-processing industry we have in our part of the country. This summer I attended several meetings in Husnes, Odda and Tyssedal, all of which have large power-generating industries. What I was told there by both management and trust, was that there were two things we had to take care of. One is that we have to keep the good framework conditions that we got through the government that you represent, they told me during the election campaign. Furthermore, you must not pursue a policy that will allow us to get into trouble with the krone price. Of what we've seen when the Right Party and the Advance Party have presented their budget, I'm going to bring forward three things that really hit, to say it that way. The CO2 compensation scheme was proposed to be halved, severely weakened, oil money use has increased, and severe cuts have been made in the permitting schemes – permitting schemes to ensure that enterprises, which have varying quantities of jobs, are able to maintain their skills on the labour market. This is getting weaker. Oil money use is increasing despite the fact that the government in its additional proposal says that the high level of cost and vulnerability to a fall in oil price indicate caution in increasing the use of oil revenues. Furthermore, the government itself says that the dollar price is low and the mood in the currency market can change quickly. If one made a clear change of pace in the use of money over the state budget, there would be a danger that the crown would strengthen again. This shows that messing with the use of oil money, as the government has done, poses a danger. The government knows that -- they themselves have said that in their proposition. Under the CO2 compensation scheme, the government finally had to reverse its cuts after pressure from both the trade movement, industry and the cooperation parties and go for the proposal that Stoltenberg promoted. What I ask myself is, are we going to experience with the CO2 compensation scheme what we experienced with the net pay scheme for seafarers under the Bondevik Government, that we get two blows a year on the scheme, one in the ordinary budget and one in the revised budget because the government is going to remove this scheme? We can't live with that, the whole thing has to put this in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e4008	The new government has not had a long time in the budget for 2014 but has nevertheless managed to bring about changes in important areas that show a clear, new direction. The voters, who showed us confidence in the harvest, will experience that we are to be trusted. The right in the government has followed up the election promises by focusing on the areas we promised to prioritise. What did we promise? We promised to create safe jobs. This has been followed up in the budget by providing tax relief that makes it more profitable to invest in Norwegian jobs. A secure job is important for people, and Norway needs more legs to stand on financially in the future. We promised to invest more in knowledge in school with a real commitment to the teachers. It has been followed up in the budget with a sharp increase in the number of teachers to be trained. Teachers are the most important learners, therefore they must be promoted and given priority. We promised to bet on quality and freedom of choice in healthcare. Here's what we have to say. Our goal is to introduce free treatment choices, and we will start next year using more of the available capacity of private operators to bring down health cows. And last, but not least, we promised to speed up the development of road and public services. The appropriations increase markedly in this area, compared to what was the red-green scheme. Good transport solutions reduce costs, increase competitiveness, reduce queues and chaos and increase safety. The right is engaged in pursuing a policy that strengthens the social security network. Too many people today are out of the ordinary. So many as 600,000 in pre-employment age don't work. It is important to facilitate that those who want to work and who have the ability to work can do so, even if not everyone can deliver 100 pst. The job is an important social arena in addition to providing income. For this reason, in the 2014 budget, we have made changes and increased efforts for people with disabilities by 3,000 more action places than in 2013. Psychiatric health disorders or drug dependence are two of the most frequent causes of illness and disability. We said in the election campaign that we should strengthen mental health protection and care. In the 2014 state budget, we have reintroduced the golden rule that growth in drug and mental health should be greater than in somatic settings. We have to get more people who are falling out of work today, to get inside and stay there. It gives us more advantages: improving the quality of life and improving social security networks for those who come into work, getting more out of work, so that value creation goes up, and we get less social security, so that public expenditure goes down. In the evening post yesterday we could read about 26-year-old Fred Øyvind Severinsen who had got a job in the Monster Company AS – a company headed by social entrepreneurship. Earlier this year, the life of Fred Øyvind was idle and rushing. Now he's been working every day since the summer. The daily manager of the Monster Company says that the company is not only a demolition company, but also a construction company. "We build people," he says, telling us that the workers have a background from violence, crime and unemployment. We build people – a fantastic vision and goal for a workplace. I'm glad the government has granted $7.7 million. kr to social entrepreneurs. That's more than five million. kr more than the red-green government had put off in its state budget. The right-wing Party government wants to release all good forces, and will support and cooperate with both individuals and businesses who want to be part of and take on social responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e4031	The right-wing party government prioritises measures to promote value creation and increase productivity in the Norwegian economy and to boost robust and diverse business life. In particular, the two-part division of the Norwegian economy requires the strengthening of the economy in mainland Norway. Therefore, especially Norwegian power-intensive industries, like other industries, will benefit greatly from the distortion of oil money consumption towards investment in knowledge, innovation and infrastructure, as well as growth-enhancing tax incentives. The Government's proposals for changes to the budget for 2014 take the first important steps in this direction. That's why it's weird to right the jams from representatives of the former red-green government about extra differences. Yes, Norwegian owners avoid being skinned by a generation change. Yes, there will be a greater similarity between Norwegian and foreign owners – and it is. For 2014, funds have been made available for the first time for a scheme to compensate the Norwegian industry for the increase in power prices resulting from the EU climate quota system. The government proposed a 30-kr quota price floor in the CO2 compensation scheme. This was supposed to give an incentive to innovation and environmentally friendly production. The scheme would still have been a far-reaching and long-term scheme for the Norwegian industry that protected him from high quota prices. It was, and it is, within the scheme that if the allowance price increases in future years, the compensation will increase accordingly. Then it is also that through negotiations with the Christian People's Party and the Left, a full compensation was prioritised, and this came into place. Nevertheless, I would like to stress that it is important that we create a compensation scheme that gives incentives to the lowest possible emissions, so that one in this way presents those who are able to reduce their emissions. Furthermore, the electricity charge was reduced in relation to the proposal from the Stoltenberg government by 363 million. kr. It makes an additional contribution to mainland Norway, which I am very happy that this government got in place. So finally, when it comes to broken promises. It's strange to sit to the right of the claims of broken promises from a government that promised to remove child poverty with a pennacle. And it's strange to hear the same representatives say about broken promises when some of these representatives were on the outside, in Eidsvoll's place, and protested against the other government representatives voted in favour. It wasn't very plausible.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e4049	This debate can quickly become a debate about who said what and what promises have been broken. I sometimes think there's reason to remember that many of the decisions this debate is going to result in actually mean a lot to many people – in small and large. It is in many ways the student council at the Öraker school here in Oslo that has reminded me of it today by sending letters, where they write that they are very concerned about the fruit of the school: ‘Dear politicians. School fruit is much more important than you think. School fruit gives students more energy, concentration.» Bring it, because I think a lot of the debate can be about political tactics and games. In the small, it's about important things, but also in the large. In the big lines, especially up against economic policy, I wonder about the special representatives from the Right, who in the election campaign spent a lot of time telling us how bad it was in business – at the latest we heard this in the hall today at the representative Gundersen, in particular about the inland and wood-based industries, how close the red-greens had to it all. We have a two-part economy, and we have a cost increase and a cost level that is demanding. Then I'm surprised that on the first occasion you spend more oil money – not so much, but you spend more. I cannot see that there is necessarily another type of use of oil money that would make it more demanding than it has been in the past. The second is that almost until those degrees choose to downgrade specific research and innovation related to the industries that make up the new legs we have to stand on, when the oil economy will have to go down. In that case, I am thinking in particular of soil and forest – the cuts made in agriculture, research and innovation, wood-based innovation and the energy-flying system. With quite even cheese needs cut most of it. With the signals we have received from the Ministry of Agriculture over the past few weeks, it is not very appealing for that industry either to operate or to operate new activities and to innovate in growth. So I think it's surprising that you so quickly come to Stortinget with proposals that very strongly signal a different direction of what you might get the impression when you heard debates in the election campaign. As an internal representative, I would also like to mention that it is particularly important for us that the large investment planned and proposed by the Stoltenberg government, at Tynset – linked to the large archive building – is at least now realised in the forthcoming budgetary rounds. It is particularly important also for building competences outside the city.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e4070	The people said, with 350 votes in favour, no to the red-green project – an unclear project, according to Gerd-Liv Valla. In fact, we need 41 years back to find a minority government that has such a broad parliamentary basis in this Chamber as the Right-Fremskrit Party government. And the bridge to the Left and Christian People's Party is solid. It gives strength and it gives a new direction. We're all conservatives, we could be led to believe in the persuasion debate. Using money as a yardstick, the outgoing government claimed that they had left the country in a better constitution than when they took it over. Today's government will not use the state budget for free money in all directions. The government will give priority to this. The industry, which today does not have supplies for the oil industry, is struggling. Once, the oil source will run empty. Then we need new legs to stand on. The needs of the future are no less important because whether they belong to the future – on the contrary! It is the knowledge of the head, and it is the competence of the fingers that is the future of the Kingdom of Norway. For this reason, the government is betting on the teacher and the teacher, so the government is betting on the training and apprenticeship system, and therefore the government is betting on the desire for knowledge and research. The government will pursue a policy that will fertilise the profitable projects, both in the public and private sectors. It gives jobs, and it gives social protection. Investments in the mainland industry have not been so low since the early 1970s and have fallen dramatically under the red-green government. Therefore, the government will provide labour-stimulating tax relief. Therefore, the government will increase investments in the railways. Optimism, innovation and employment are inextricably linked. Without work – no welfare. The government is the guarantor of order in the Norwegian economy and order in its own house.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e4085	I expressed my joy at the debate on the throne that the country had received a government and a large number of people who thought completely about the field of asylum and immigration and the integration policy. I also expressed joy at the fact that we have put in place a government that takes people who are in need of protection, in the utmost seriousness, and does what it can to give them the opportunity to succeed in Norwegian society. In order to provide the best possible protection for people who are in need of protection, it is absolutely necessary to get out those who do not have protection and who have committed crime as quickly as possible so that they do not unnecessarily seize capacity and resources. Part of the legacy of the Stoltenberg government is that 5,400 people who have been denied their asylum applications are still in Norway and live in reception. In addition, there are a further 7,000 people with rejections who do not live in reception and who do not know exactly where they are. On top of that comes those who are convicted, but not imprisoned, and who are still in the country. On top of this again, there are illegal immigrants who we don't know much about. What all these have in common is that they should not have been here, and that they should have been sent out of the country – which unfortunately the previous government did not have and which is undermining the institution of asylum and its foreign policy. If Norwegian asylum policy is to work, it is important that we actually get those people who get their asylum application rejected in Norway or commit criminal acts. For no one serves for people who are not to be here to stay for longer. Exports are therefore an important priority for the Progress Party in government. We see that when people who do not have the right to stay in Norway are increased, more people travel on a voluntary basis. This is why the government is adding an increase of 1,800 more shipments to next year, so that 6700 people are transported out in total. We in the Progress Party would like to send out more of those who aren't supposed to be here, but it's not realistic to get it to the next year. In the years to come, we want to increase the number of shipments further and within what it's capable of. It is an important signal that shows clearly that, with the Progress Party in government, the law, order and respect for the institution of asylum have been restored.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e4097	The right went to the choice for the country to get a new course, and the voters have given us this confidence in the autumn's choice. The country received a new government and a new course, and through some hectic weeks of budget negotiations we have now been presented with a good budget for our country. I note that politicians from the Red-Green parties criticise this draft budget in relation to their own. It should not be a surprise to these parties that a new government also means a new policy course — a course that shows targeted bets, aimed at strengthening Norway’s sustainability and ensuring the well-being of the individual. The right-wing Party government already demonstrates in this budgetary agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party that it is able to give priority to the most important. Nordland has a rich and active business with a high export activity. The economy and the population of the Nordic countries have called for better roads and accessibility. Now, when the Right-Fremskritspart government delivers and increases the road construction record by 1,1 billion. This means, in relation to the red-green proposals for national and county roads, which will also benefit the districts and the Nordic countries to the greatest extent. Only in the Nordic states is there a follow-up to road maintenance of 7.8 billion. kr after taking over the roads ‘heel for heel’ from the red-green government. So this money goes well to close these holes. The most effective means of improving the basis for business start-ups and, therefore, increased housing in District Norway is just better transport. This means better road, bridge and tunnel connections, on which we depend, so that the good products from the districts arrive quickly, both to the Norwegian and international markets. The fear of the red-greens is that reduced funds for regional development will lead to a shifting flow from District Norway. We know that the movement flow has unfortunately been going on for many years – despite the fact that those funds have been available. It is sad to hear Norwegian representatives talk about proposals here today that are no longer part of the budgetary agreement. The right-hand Party Government increases the allocation, inter alia: for marine research through the Norwegian Research Council of 20 million. kr. In addition, the government has announced new measures that will improve the profitability of the fishing industry, and this is good for North Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e4112	One of the finest things about Norwegian democracy is diversity — the diversity of organisations and the media. In the new government's draft budget, it is cut to both ends. It gives no more volunteering, and it does not strengthen democracy – on the contrary. It is quite clear where the Right and Advance Party will cut. Among other things, there is a proposal to cut environmental organisations, and the worst of them was the people's reaction to oil drilling in Lofoten and the West Pole – for them the whole support was removed. And while it was cut off for the environmental movement, the immigration-critical organisation Human Rights Service doubled its support. They were writing the controversial immigration proposals to the Progress Party, and now they're saying, "We don't even have to apply for support, we just get the money to go after us." There's a whole new way of distributing money, where the government cuts to the organizations they disagree with, and increases to those they agree with. It may seem that the new government will cut to those who can make their lives miserable for themselves. Maybe that's exactly why it went beyond the environmental movement this time, because they have good reason to criticize the new Right Party government. At the Zero Conference, the Prime Minister was to present the government's climate policy. She then said that the time had come to go from word to action, but she herself did not come up with any suggestions for a new policy. A few days later, we learned what that really meant. It was to remove the CO2 compensation, it was cut for CO2 cleaning and maybe at worst it was a cut of 400 million. kr for the rain forest project. It is possible this was to make words into action, but good climate policy was definitely not. Climate negotiations are raging, among other things: because the rich countries do not want to participate and contribute. It's a very bad signal that some of the very first thing the new government does is cut to the rainforest. Norway is working for other countries to give more money, but with what credibility can we do so when our own government is working to cut? Our new environmental protection minister must have had a dull taste in her mouth when at the climate summit in Warsaw she boasted of the rainforest billions, while here she was working at home to cut. I am glad that the Left and Christian People's Party has been lifted to the rainforest, that the cut did not become as big as the government really wanted. But it's still not the whole world to knock on the chest for, because still it's considerably smaller than what we're proposing today. Today, the Left and Christian People's Party would have more left to vote in favour of the red-green proposals, and it completely without debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e4137	I think we should have food, and it should be Norwegian. But this is in stark contrast to what we have experienced in agriculture in recent years. Today, the new government has received a lot of criticism for cutting the agricultural budget. In fact, there is a need for major changes in Norwegian agricultural policy. Knut Storberget mentioned here instead many good points that the red-greens have overlooked in the eight years they put in government. The active substances and subsidies must be reversed in order to achieve agricultural policy objectives such as: increased food production. What we have experience is that 400,000 covers of agricultural land have been taken out of production since 2005. And 1,000 uses have been dropped annually under the red-green government. Of 43 000 agricultural holdings, barely 6 are operated. full-time. There are 35,000 farms with empty houses around the country. The grain production has fallen by 20 pst. We produce too little beef and too little lamb compared to the demand here in Norway. Cattle production has decreased by more than 9500 tonnes since 2005, and lamb meat production has decreased by 2370 tonnes since 2005. The level of self-sufficiency from the land-based food industry shows a negative trend, and EU imports are increasing to an extent, while the Norwegian population is increasing. This is in stark contrast to the objectives of the former red-green government, election vows and agricultural survey reports. This really testifies to the fact that we have had a red-green government that has led an old-fashioned agricultural policy without the ability to renew and act. Agriculture policy has stood still with an agricultural minister from the Central Party. One can, of course, perceive the former red-green government as system administrator and administrator rather than forming new and forward-looking policies for Norwegian consumers and for the Norwegian farmer. The Declaration of Government is reasonably clear. Changes in agriculture need to be made to make industry more profitable and to meet the needs of consumers in this country much better. That's what's needed. We've got a government that has shown the ability and willingness to prioritize and put people ahead of the system. This shall benefit the active farmer and the Norwegian consumer. I look forward to the government starting this important work. Several of the aid schemes we have today are hampering the achievement of the goal of increased food production in Norway. Therefore, it is good to see that some researchers believe that government policy will lead to increased Norwegian food production, including in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e4154	The right-wing parties that have now formed government love to present themselves as the top figures in business and guarantee good framework conditions for the same business. The government platform and election promises have formulations to create a robust business life, to create values that need to be created before they are shared, to create value in all parts of the country – and that must of course be done within the framework of a responsible economic policy. But the election campaign is over, the election vows are off and the realities are obvious, also for the right parties in government. The government of Stoltenberg II was committed to pursuing a long-term, sustainable and predictable policy for business, a business that could be present throughout the country, such as: the important process industry in my own home country, Nordland. It is an industry that employs many thousands of workers that creates large export values for the country, but which is also highly competitive. In 2009, we fought to establish an industrial power regime. That's what we got. Then we've fought to get a CO2 compensation in place. We also got that until Solberg's government proposed to halve it. Fortunately, there were others in this room who saw that this was a little lucky – to put it mildly – and had that proposal reversed. On the way, however, something important disappeared, namely the belief that the government can be regarded as predictable, and there has been considerable uncertainty about what framework conditions will apply in the future. The damage has already happened. In the election campaign, we heard the Prime Minister talk seriously about too much oil money and too much oil addiction. Once you're in position, the first thing you do is to provide even more oil money, go against the impression you left behind in the election campaign. For my home country, which is a large export group in terms of both fish, products from aquaculture, tourism and aluminium, this leads to a greater risk of job losses, because it will result in an additional pressure on interest rates, a risk of a strengthened crown and thus a deterioration in the country’s competitiveness. It happens at a time when you report dark clouds in the horizon. Now, the next big blow to the process industry is the issue of net tariff issues. The question arises – whether you can now expect a full retreat from the right hand parts here as well. Will it be so that the industry will get the whole bill? There's been a lot of uncertainty about that. When you look at this first budget from the government of Solberg, it is not the good ideas and solutions that characterize it. In my opinion, there is a budget that is marked by withdrawals, a breach of promises with many wrong choices for the future, and the worst of all: there is a great deal of uncertainty about the framework conditions that will apply to important industries in this country for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e4176	Norway is part of Europe, and Norwegian interests are affected by the European economy. European challenges are not only economics but also democracy building. It is worrying that many young people in European countries do not have work. This could lead to a lack of openness in community values and an increase in the uptake of extreme expressions. Innovation, knowledge and technology are necessary areas of activity for meeting tomorrow's competition in a globalised world. The government will increase its commitment to research, establish more world-leading university environments and has the ambition that Norway will become one of the most innovative countries in Europe in the long term. The government will work for Norway to be a country with small differences and minimal poverty. The main measures to combat poverty are a good school that balances social differences and an open working life with room for all. Nevertheless, there will be people who are outside important social arenas because of poor economy or poor living conditions. The government believes it is an important societal task to ensure that these too receive the help they need. Some groups have challenges in getting to work, or in staying in work over time. This is particularly true of disabled people, immigrants and young people without completed education. Psychiatric health challenges have become an important cause of sick leave and absence from work. The government will take action to facilitate partial work during periods of mental illness, thus avoiding permanent disability. A full review of Nav is to be carried out with a view to red tape of the network for users in order to help more people from social security to work. Bipartition of the economy makes it increasingly important to ensure that Norway has more and more legs in economic terms. Therefore, the government will ensure good framework conditions for business throughout the country and strengthen private Norwegian ownership. We have a challenging time ahead of us, and it is important to invest in our common future. We should review how Norwegian working life is organised and assess changes where appropriate. The Working Environment Act is not static and the Government has proposed some changes to make it flexible for new workers and families who need flexibility in their everyday lives. We have a challenge in our society when young people don't get into work or drop out of high school. On the one hand, we have the demographic challenge that shows that more people are getting older, on the other hand, the financing of future pensions where more people are at work. It is important to get young people working for several reasons — one is improving the quality of life by making their own money and setting up a social network in conjunction with other workers. Another reason is youth membership and participation in a society. Norway will be tested in the coming years, but there is no reason not to pass this test if we modernise and further develop Norwegian working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e4199	I would like to make a few comments related to a budget debate on the NRK yesterday. The debate concerned cash support and tax class 2. The head of the Finance Committee, for whom I have great respect, accused the Workers' Party's fiscal spokesman of ethnic thought. I'm going to take Støre in defense. Such use of words is completely unnecessary and very unpleasant to be exposed to. I know that -- I've got these myself, and even worse, accusations directed at me. However, the paradox is that such accusations have come from among others. Bigger yourself. And then I would like to remind you that integration policies by definition need to be targeted at selected groups – a targeted policy with the aim of getting more involved in society. In the Labour Party and the Støres integration document – The new Norwegian we – I found on page 1 the following honorary words: We have become a richer and more exciting country, Norway has become more diverse, Norway has become more open and inclusive and we have become more successful and multicultural. All of this we have become. Yes, but then it is strange that the person who highlights all of this has himself chosen to live as far away as possible from where this occurs. So it is only the rest of us who will be able to take part in the new Norwegian language – not the Workers' Party's fiscal spokesman. It must be called self-sacrifice of dimensions – for the new Norwegian we do not bloom exactly on rice. And the 500 extra refugees that Støre has asked for in the debate probably wouldn't live in Risbeck Road anyway. But the representative Støre is not alone. Almost everyone else with the same politically correct opinions has chosen exactly the same self-sacrifice. Yes, the entire team has chosen to settle in Oslo west or Oslo north. Then we hear the debate on the need for small differences between people. With 50 million in wealth, there may be relatively small differences – in Risbeckwegen. But quality costs – e.g. $1,500 for a shirt. After all, a social democratic secretary himself does not receive advice from many. But then it's reassuring to be comforted by the slogans: everyone is going with, the differences are going to be smaller and the whole thing is going to be embraced by the new Norwegian we.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e4214	In recent years, transport investment has increased sharply. Railway investments have been fivefold over a few years, and that is good. There is a great need for transport investment across the country. Oslo and Akershus are experiencing significant growth in the population. More people mean more traffic from their own inhabitants, but also traffic from other parts of the country. Large-scale transport investment is still needed in the Capital Region. New roads must be built. E18 in the West Corridor, rv. 4, E16 and Glommacrossing on rv. 22 to the east are perhaps the largest and most important road maps to the future. However, the future growth of traffic in the metropolitan area – the growth of traffic – must be concentrated on collective transport. After all, there is no room for more roads in and out of Oslo. More ground needs to be built – the Folloban, the new double track, the Oslo-Ski tunnel, the new Oslo railway tunnel and the new T-Bahn tunnel. The T-Bahn must be extended to Lørenskog and Romerike, and the path must be built to Fornebu – Fornebubanen, which has been the subject of the debate in several speeches here today. In the plans that it has so far been working with in Oslo and Akershus, it has been set to start at Fornebubanen in 2018. Then we remember the play from the end of May, where the four bourgeois party leaders went out and said that it would be a civil majority, the Fornebuban will be built faster – that is, faster than 2018. Now we have heard today, and seen in Budstikka today, that the Minister of Transport is talking about exactly the same thing – just as we others have always said: the fastest possible, and that 2018 is probably a realistic year. So that output was zero. People in Bærum must feel cheated today when they see the statements of the Minister of Transport and representatives of the Right and Advance Party. What's going on with the Fornebuban? When can the Fornebuban begin? It might be interesting to get an answer. The matter has evolved during the day and evening. State Secretary Hoksrud says that regulation and planning processes take a long time. It is completely wrong about Bærum, now says the Right-Rapporteur in Bærum – they have already made important clarifications. The left's transportation agency in Oslo has become in doubt about what the state council says, reporting now the NRK. What's the situation for the Fornebuban is a complete chaos. The right hand side and the progress side have not been able to solve it. The confusion is greater now than it was when we started the debate today early, obviously also among central trust-elects in the government parties. It might have been interesting to hear how the Left and Christian People's Party, which was involved in the famous play on the gravel roof of Fornebu at the end of May, evaluates the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e4229	I'm sure it could, but now it's time, so we'll have to wait a little bit.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e4232	Last week I visited a local low - threshold facility called the Sjuer, located at Jessheim, Akershus. Here, addicts meet several times a week to turn off a chat, have a coffee cup or eat together. They said that they were pleased with the offer and the security of that community. But they were also open to that many who live as addicts have it terribly demanding. I am therefore pleased that the government is taking two important steps in the care of the drug: we are reintroducing the golden rule in the specialist health service, which involves strengthening the growth of drugs and mental health protection separately more than the growth in somatics, and we are earmarking 340 million. In the last few years, experience has shown that several municipalities have decentralised their efforts in the field of drugs after the designation has been removed. In addition, care is now further strengthened by the reconciliation between government and the Christian People's Party and the Left. We agree to increase the allocation of voluntary work related to drug work in municipalities by millions. Funds allocated in the voluntary sector are, in a way, money growing. The volunteers get a lot out of the funds, and they have their own ability to get with the municipalities, donors and others to participate in important split layers. The need is great for more diverse and greater voluntary efforts, and many of the actors are ready to do more of what works well. Much of the work needs to be done by professionals in the care of drug users, but volunteers also have an important role to play. I've met many people who are dependent on the help of the public — addicts, mentally ill, and people with disabilities. They are used to getting help from good health workers to meet many of their needs. Nevertheless, several of them say that it may sometimes be good to ask for help from or have a conversation with someone who is not supposed to have paid to help. This is where volunteering plays a strong and important role. There has been a lot of discussion in this room today about whether tax policies create differences in society. I'm glad that the government, along with the Christian People's Party and the Left, is now doing a lot for those who have been getting too little in recent years, namely the addicts. After a few weeks in government, our efforts are an important change of pace – and contribute in every way possible to smoothing differences for some of the weakest in our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e4245	The husband of the suspenseful and grinned posts of the Workers' Party shall be searched for a long time. It was de facto the voters who said clearly that they wanted a new policy. There was a large majority in Norway that had been tired of chaos, mess and – I had almost said – soap operas for the open stage every two days. And what's worth noting is that almost no comments coming from outside this house are very critical to this year's draft budget. On the contrary, there is a lot of glory to get from both Strand, Kristiansen and many others. We get statements from the Workers' Party and their people that with the government's budget you go backwards into the toothpaste tube, or save on oil money – when the difference is really minimal. Now, unlike others, who obviously have experience in the field, I have never tried this with the toothpaste tube. Any thinking person understands that the overnight progress party cannot clean up Stoltenberg’s toll collection in Norway. We see that it's going the right way. The alternative we all know about. I registered that the representative Snorre Serigstad Valen was deeply concerned about child-rearing – in Finnmark. He did not mention a word that everyone would get less tax, not a word that SV would remove tax class 2, or that the government in the new age would propose to remove 360 million. as a tax haven in Finnmark by removing the toll stations in Alta. The population of Alta and Finnmark can receive a tax reduction that is almost five times more than cut in the child contribution, if the Storting will, in the treatment of the new age. With the representative Serigstad Valen’s policy, many would have increased expenditure of 15 000, 20 000 and 25 000 kroner. This government does not give priority to everything, but to areas that are most important to people. This government prioritises growth-enhancing tax incentives that will make working and investing more profitable. This is a boost for knowledge and research, an increased commitment to transport and infrastructure and a strengthening of asylum and justice policy – not bad, given the time we have had.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e4256	After the words that have fallen in this hall over the last half hour, it is quite strange that it is the Progress Party that criticizes other parties for holding suspense posts. But let me start by ‘shut back the clock a little bit’. It chose the Chairman of the Financial Committee to use the first sentence of the first indent of the first financial debate during this government. With that, the representative Syversen secured parliamentary gold in the World Cup in political self-confidence. The budget takes us back to the past in child, family and equality policies, because if as a party it is important that fewer children go to kindergarten, that it is important that parents pay more for fewer children's playgrounds, that there is an extensive political objective that fathers should spend less time with their children, and that mothers should spend more time at work – and if you want to send a louder clear signal to all employers in the country that it is more risky to hire a woman than a man, you put forward such a budget. "We're going to solve the issues we said we're going to solve," said Prime Minister Erna Solberg earlier in the debate. But they don't, because the right said they would have more kindergartens. Instead, they cut the proposal for two admissions a year, without replacing it with anything else, which they have pretended they are in today's debate for. When you hear representatives from the Right and the Advance Party in this Chamber today, you can wonder if within the bourgeois parties there is a strange division of labour, that there are people running election campaigns and in debate, and then there are people writing budgets. For here we have heard how important it is to work and integrate and ensure that those who are unused resources in the labour market get involved, but in the budget it is charged to pay healthy people to stand out from work. In the election campaign you could hear sirens singing that there would be so many more babysittings this year, but there is no one in the budget. There will be fewer and more expensive kindergartens to afford more cash support and more tax relief for those who have the most from before. In the hall today we have heard Minister of Gender Solvency Horne say that she has confidence that several men will take out cardboard, even after the government cuts in it. I've also heard more civil candidates say that through the election campaign. That reasoning has three problems. It is rejected by researchers and by the empirical community, and the others in the Right and Advance Party – those who write the budgets – do not believe in it either. On the contrary, they budget that more women will be longer at home. We're your trust-elect. We manage a trust that the voters have given us on the basis of what we have communicated in the election campaign. When there is such a big gap between promise and reality as in the bourgeois family policy, it builds confidence in politics as a whole. Then the bourgeois have put on democracy a problem that is even bigger if possible than the problem the Right has when they see those who went to the urns in hopes of more kindergartens, in their eyes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e4274	The opposition claims that the government is in breach of promises and at the same time criticises the change in price when they see the budget of the new government. This change in course we promised in the election campaign, so when the opposition complains about a breach of promises, it becomes special – or to use the representative Snorre Serigstad Valen's words in today's debate: it becomes 'exotic'. The right promised its voters in the election campaign was just a change of course. We wanted to use all the forces to bring down the health cows and give a better offer to the groups sitting at the bottom of the health table. The human costs of mental health problems, intoxication and alienation are high. There are an incredible number of individual sheds behind sick messages and disability. Psychiatric health problems cost society today about 70 billion. kr per year, and mental disorders account for 40 pst. of sick leave and 40 pst. the cost of disability benefits. It is therefore very important to prioritize the area of mental health, both in terms of prevention, treatment and rehabilitation. We also know that 20 pst. the absence of secondary education is due to mental problems. An important area of government activity is therefore to strengthen the safety net so that fewer fall through. Work needs to be done on several teams to prevent mental illness. The government's commitment to continuing training of teachers will improve schooling and prevent apostasy and the exclusion of young people from working life. Patients with drug dependence or mental health challenges need better provision and faster treatment. The Government therefore increases the proposal for the allocation of 300 million to regional undertakings. kr. Strengthening shall be primarily aimed at exploiting the capacity of private and non-profit institutions serving households. The Government is committed to exploiting the capacity of existing contracts and procurement legislation, and emphasis is placed on the predictability and long-termity of private and NPISHs through public acquisitions. During the consultation of the Health and Welfare Committee and during visits to drug institutions, it was highlighted by several that there is a major problem with a long waiting period for treatment. This government will do something about it and use more of the capacity available in private and non-profit institutions serving households. It shall not be at the expense of the public health service but, on the contrary, complement and complete it. The government puts the individual in focus, not the system. It's part of the change in course, not a breach of promise.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e4298	At the top of the government's priority list is tax cuts. At the top of the student wish list right now there are eleven months of student support. It's not a wish that it seems that they get fulfilled by the first. The students are among those who have to pay for the government’s tax cuts. The red-green parties would introduce 11 months of study support into the State budget. This would mean an increase of more than NOK 11000 each year. The students spoke of it as a historical and a quality boost. On 8 November, the Solberg government cancelled the bet. In exchange, students receive a modest increase in the monthly amount and an investigation. That proposal, with full effect in 2015, represents less than one third of the increase that the red-green parties would have. The Government Parties have described a change of pace in the knowledge effort. For the students, this is a shift to a lower rate than the red-greens, in sharp contrast to the words of the knowledge society, and in spite of, among other things. The party of progress has been ready in its speech. This summer, Mr. Tord Lien spoke to the student newspaper during the Dusken: «I can also promise 11 months of study support within the four-year period is over.» He took, as far as I can see, no reservations about 16.3 pst. digestion. It's interesting to see the debate this fall. Previously, parts of the then opposition criticised the red-green parties for not including eleven months of study funding in the budgets. This autumn, some of the same representatives have criticised us for the fact that it was there. The argument is that it made the work difficult for the new government. It's turning the debate upside down. The red-green parties did not work with the state budget for several months with the plan to lose the election and leave the government power to the Right and the Advance Party. We worked on the budget with a plan to win the election and then implement our policy. Eleven months of study support was part of that policy. But the election result gave a new government – we're dealing with that – and after being exposed to the implementation power of the Solberg government, 2 out of 3 dollars of the red-green bet on student support is removed. The richest bank account is thus filled in at a very different rate than the students' wallets. The student's wish for 11 months of student support is sensible and forward-looking. It gives students the opportunity to study more and work less, and it helps to realize the knowledge society. No further investigations are needed. What students need is a different type of executive than what we've seen now.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e4320	I heard the representative Trettebergstuen say that there was no wish on the Right-Fremskritsparti-politik on the workers' side. It was a little strange, considering that the NRK announced last summer that every third LO member had intended to vote on the Right or Advance Party. But it's only quite typical how the Workers' Party tries to take the employee's side to income for itself. Then it's interesting how they react to Raymond Johansen's posts in the Evening Post today. Now it's only he who knows what the Workers' Party thinks about, for example. the environmental protection law. But to today's text, we've been able to see a debate about trust and differences lately. When the evening post conducted an experiment to see how many who returned lost wallets, and they got 15 out of 20 wallets back, the staging representative Jonas Gahr found it opportunistic to go out and say that there could be less trust between people if the government gets an impact on its policy. For government policy, says Gahr Støre, there are increasing differences in society, and increasing differences are less reliable. Then I want to say, thank you so much for the diagnosis, but I don't think that is true. I agree that societies where we trust each other are good societies, there are societies where we stand for each other, and there are societies where we treat each other with respect. The Labour Party believes that the differences in society are found in tax statistics, but it only shows that in its analysis, the Labour Party skips the most important aspect, namely the large difference between those in work and those who are not in work. Then it is important to have a policy that creates safe jobs. It has this government, with tax incentives that make it more profitable to invest in Norwegian jobs. The opposition is talking about this as tax relief to the richest. They would have to do that, but then they also have to know that they clearly show that it is not possible to have a reasonable and interesting tax debate with a red-green wholesaler. At the same time, it is important to have policies that allow more people to enter the labour market. Here, it is both the whole of the policy and the individual measures that are important. That is why we are increasing the number of action places for people with disabilities by 3000 places in 2014. Being outside the labour market and not being part of the joint effort to create well-being in Norway is bad. There are people in Norway who have something to contribute and who want to contribute, but who do not get that opportunity. Then it was so incredibly nice to read the paper yesterday, where we could see over a double page the effect of social entrepreneurship, where a man who has been outside, abused drugs and ended up on detoxification, today is inside. He's got a job. It shows that social entrepreneurship is an important part of the solution. That's why I'm glad that in this budget we grant significantly more to social entrepreneurs than the red-green government wanted to do. I have heard it has been said that this government is threatening the working line. But it doesn't. On the contrary, policies are now being put in place to bring more people into the labour market and create safe jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e4333	The blue-blue budget is a budget for increased oil money use and increased oil dependence, although the blue-blues in the election campaign accused the red-green government of making Norway more oil dependent. In the interests of Norwegian jobs and the Norwegian economy, the Labour Party chooses not to increase its oil money use. The Solberg budget makes it less profitable to work and weaken the growth power of the Norwegian economy. This is serious. More seriously, the government says that this is just the first step. In the last eight years, we have seen a shift in the rate of turnover in Norway. We in the Workers' Party will continue this effort, which we can not least see from the adopted National Transport Plan. The Labour Party will also support a strengthening of the road and runway budgets of 660 million. kr, but we cannot support proposals in addition to this for transport purposes, as this is built on increased oil money usage. When it comes to transportation, the government gives us a budget that increases the differences between cities and countries. I'll give you some examples. The increase in the funds for highways of 280 million. kr can be heard in a reliable and good way, but when you look at where the money is picked up, at the same time you cut a total of 430 million. kr on the regional development funds of the counties, it will not be as good as the representative Ebbesen from the Right and Nordland said that there was more money for the counties. Of course, it doesn't harmonize with the cut. We see further cuts in the allocation to fishing ports of 46 million. kr, meaning that the fishing ports of Napp in Nordland and Sommarøy in Troms are not started up as foreseen in 2014. And if I'm to interpret Minister Solvik-Olsen's response in the line change today, it could be more than a postponement. The entry is reduced by 50 million. kr, and you will go from six to five postal transport days and will additionally privatise the Post. Looking at other countries where this is done, we see that this has led to a severe reduction in quality, not least in the districts. Then we can look at the railway. As regards the reinforcement of the railway, we agree – that is good. But what is not good is the clear wording of the Right and the Advance Party that they will facilitate increased competition also for rail passenger transport, which will hit the districts extra hard. Good transport is important to meet future challenges. At the same time, as politicians, we have a responsibility for a comprehensive policy that ensures fair distribution and important tasks in health, care, work and school. The budget we are about to adopt today points a completely different direction for Norway, with major differences in these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e4354	In Norway, we have a strong tradition of people owning their own homes. One of the areas where there is extra pressure in a municipality of growth is just access to the housing market. Housing prices are high, and many groups are currently outside the housing market, especially in urban areas. Young people, students and newly established people meet high thresholds. This government is leading and will pursue a housing policy that makes it easier to build more dwellings, allows municipalities to decide more and allows banks to show greater discretion. However, there are in particular two proposals in the government's additional proposal which are extra good news for young and newly established people entering the housing market. Firstly, the government cancels the red-green proposals on tax consolidation for housing. Secondly, the BSU system is being extended. The red-green government proposed in its government budget that the tax should be increased for people buying dwellings for the purpose of renting out. The aim was to prevent so-called house speculation. But in reality, this was nothing but an unsocial and bureaucratic tax to punish those who own an extra dwelling. Everyone living in a city or a municipality of growth is painfully aware that for many young and newly established people it is not only about entering the housing market but also the rental market. This tax would only lead to fewer people renting out their home, and thus it would push the rental prices further up. The Housing Saving Scheme for Youth, BSU, is a targeted and popular scheme. The entire population of eight out of ten under 34 years of age has or has had a BSU account according to a Synovate study. The same study shows that at least nine out of ten young people who save in the scheme do so even without a so-called parental payment. It's over 18 billion today. in the housing saving schemes for young people. However, the savings potential is much higher. It is important to stimulate long-term savings rather than short-term consumption in young people. That the ceiling of the BSU scheme was raised from NOK 100 000 to NOK 150 000 is fine, but the government parties believe that this is insufficient in view of the increase in housing prices in recent years. The government has therefore increased the annual savings amount that gives tax deductions to NOK 25 000. Furthermore, the overall savings ceiling in BSU is increased to NOK 200000. While the solutions of the previous government were more bureaucracy and increased taxes, this government makes it easier for young and newly established people to enter the housing market through a more social housing policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e4371	Not many days ago, hundreds of artists and cultural entrepreneurs acted outside the Stortinget. They did so because the government parties, the Progress Party and the Right, have caused a great deal of unrest in this service area with their desired policies. It was reversed for artists thanks to the Left and Christian People's Party. It was honoured by the cultural promise that the red-green government would set in motion. When the red-green government started work on implementing the cultural promise, it was a burning desire for a Norwegian cultural life to receive the recognition they deserved, and the freedom they needed, and the economic framework would be predictable enough for cultural life to have opportunities to be innovative, to increase quality and to ensure a cultural life throughout the country. What also makes the Workers' Party concerned about the government's desired policies are the cuts in cultural offerings to children. Removing the one free cultural school hour in the SFO and cutting off the literacy projects are examples. These are primarily cultural services to enrich our children with cultural experiences. But this is also the first sprout to dream of becoming the Leif Ove Andsnes of the future, Pál Jackman, Pia Tjelta or Tore Renberg. It does little to ensure that the Red-Green Government met the goal of 1 pst. over the state budget when the Cultural Promise is now buried by the government. We already see the outlines of the government's cultural policy, and it does not promise the freedom of cultural life to create within a free framework. There is no longer any great cultural promise. This means that hard work will be done towards 2017. The working party shall not be on the lat side at all. We have to keep the cultural debate alive every day.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e4382	This has been an interesting financial debate. It's obvious that the government councils and government parties are well-forbidden and defend their budget lines with glow, and it's good to see that there's a good tone between the cooperative party and the government. Worse, there are red-green politicians who have not yet understood that they lost the election in September. I am very pleased that the government in record time has been able to increase the rights to infrastructure, to knowledge, to research, to justice and to health, as we promised the voters. It's also been a pleasure to see how good most people have taken against the bets on transportation that are already in place. The continuation of the interest-rate compensation scheme and the extension of the loopholes to county roads have led to the return of optimism for many road traffic controllers. This is not at least the case in these days when state politicians are going to do their priorities in the regional road maps. In my home country, the government gets to boast that it's investing in state roads. So can we say that the government is stopping the toll collection in many places and on many toll projects. The voters wanted a new policy, not just a new government. In the submission to the State budget for 2014, we are taking the first steps in a new and better direction. One has also taken the first steps to stop a major lag in maintenance, long-term health queues, increasing bureaucracy and many unresolved challenges in the justice sector – just to name a few. A good government budget proposal has even been improved through the negotiations with the Cooperation Party, and it is very positive that attention has been paid to measures to stimulate value creation and growth. Here are some examples of important investments in the State budget: The allocations to the knowledge sector will be boosted by nearly 400 million. Compare with the red-green government. The health and elderly care allowances are increased by about 430 million. kr in addition to that provided by the red-green government. The permits to the national road and rail routes for 2014 have been increased by a total of 1696 million. kr in addition to the red-green government. Of this, 1.1 billion is. SEK to highway and 600 million. kr to railway. While the red-green government is increasing the tax and tax levels, this government is reducing the collection of taxes and taxes by 7 billion. In its first budget, the government has given priority to growth-promoting tax incentives for employment, saving and investment. That's good. Still, there are many challenges to address. These few weeks have shown that there will be many important and forward-looking changes in the years to come, and this work is now beginning. I really like to continue this work over the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e4412	The agreed proposal for a government budget from the government parties, the Left and the Christian People's Party, carries a new direction in Norwegian policy. There is a direction to the right in such a way that our good, long-term Community solutions are at risk. The government announced early, by the municipal minister Jan Tore Sanner, that the municipalities should be saved for cuts. The reality in the municipalities is now a bit different. The government defends itself that they have only made so-called technical changes, but more municipalities warn that they actually get less to go with than the Stoltenberg II government proposed. In the government statement, our local politicians were highlighted by the fact that municipalities and local authorities would have more autonomy and there would be less bureaucracy. At first opportunity, the government and the supporting parties, the Left and Christian People's Party, cut into this freedom by drawing into the municipal framework and earmarking this money for rushes and psychiatry, and they say that all the municipalities have done too bad a job with that bet. The government clearly says that municipalities get less freedom, not more freedom, as they promised before the elections. But they don't increase the borders of the city and the psychiatry of the municipalities. They introduce a new bureaucracy with an application process for all municipalities in the field of drug and psychiatry. They now need to spend time on an application process and will in the meantime be uncertain about how much they actually get, because everyone will probably not get the same thing as in a framework transfer. After all, such an application process would be beyond any reasonableness and, in my view, necessarily lead to some municipalities now getting less than they would have with the framework transfer, contrary to what the government has promised. Unfortunately, the majority have now set a framework for the State budget which does not promote long-term and good Community solutions in important areas. There is an increase in the use of oil money that disappears directly in tax bills to those who have the most in the past, and municipalities get less money and less freedom to prioritize the offers that are appropriate for their inhabitants. Earlier this evening, I have registered a slightly broken-down municipal minister, Sanner, who said that there was no one who said anything positive about the draft budget. Then I can try to remedy it – I get to take on that job – and say that the increase in the apprenticeship grant was good. But it does not change in my view that the Right and Advance Party, with the Christian People's Party and the Left on the draw, takes Norway in the wrong direction with this draft budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e4425	The budget of the blue-blue government increases differences in Norway. The government spends extra oil billions on tax cuts. It is neither growth-promoting nor forward-looking. In the interests of Norwegian jobs and the Norwegian economy, the Labour Party chooses not to increase its oil money use. In order to provide security for Norwegian jobs, it is important to pursue an active and predictable industrial policy. This has been done by our government for eight years, and it has produced good results. The budget of the Right-wing Party government will reinforce the two-part division of the Norwegian economy. This, together with proposals for cutbacks in active enterprise policy measures, led by the government of Stoltenberg, creates uncertainty. In this context, I will mention the blue-blue government's proposal for a cut of 123 million. NOK in the CO2 compensation scheme that the government of Stoltenberg had put in place. It created strong reactions throughout the country and not least from the industry itself. Although this cut was negotiated away through the agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, I would nevertheless point out that when the government makes such proposals, it gives very bad signals. Uncertainty has already been created about what will become the government's future position in ensuring this important industry's foreseeable framework conditions. The second thing I want to point out is cut at 430 million. kr, which corresponds to the whole of 27 pst. in the regional development funds. The Labour Party believes that these means are essential, including: to stimulate innovation and entrepreneurial activity. District funds are important means where the market fails the most and ensure that both natural resources and human resources can be used across the country. It is therefore very unfortunate that the Right-Fremskritspart-regierung küter dramatically in these funds. In this context, I would also point out that Innovation Norway, in its consultation exercise on the government’s additional proposal, noted that these cuts will contribute to a long period of considerable uncertainty for entrepreneurs and businesses in the districts. This should also be noted by the supporting parties of the Christian People's Party and the Left. We also see cuts in the instrument that are targeted at important district industries such as agriculture, fisheries and travel. Instead, tax incentives and more general instruments are given priority. This, in my opinion, shows that the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left are already leaving the active industrial policy of the Stoltenberg Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e4441	The government of Solberg is afraid of a two-part division of Norwegian business and that we become oil addicts, so they use 4 billion. kr more of the oil money. The Solberg government is concerned that differences are increasing in Norway, therefore the richest 40,000 dollars in tax bills and those with the least income a few hundred bills. The Solberg Government is providing a growth-enhancing budget, thereby cutting back on all positive measures to promote quality and market access for the fishing industry and removing all the specific rules of the industry. Very many of the representatives from the Right and the Advance Party have pointed out that by choice the voters joined a new government. This connection is a reason to believe that it is based on the wavelift that was given. So you have to look at what they said and what they do. The importance of Norwegian workplaces and the Norwegian economy means that the Labour Party will not increase the use of money. These are probably most right-wing representatives, too, but right-wing people are clearly using more oil money than they would do in opposition. On the other hand, the progress game uses much less than they said. Nutrient neutrality -- it said the Right shouldn't reoccur. What they do is to remove everything within action packages, and forest activity, fisheries and agriculture get dizzy. Minister of Fisheries Aspaker even called the line-line approach and the growth package for white fish for subsidies, and said that the schemes weaken the incentives for necessary conversion in the industry. So wear-and-wear industries cannot expect action packages in the future to be more competitive. Right-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-hands. The first thing they do is put the framework conditions for the mainland industry at risk, for example: the CO2 compensation scheme. Hydro, Stadskog, Elkem, Alcoa and many others were able to change the framework and exacerbate the competition during the night, and of course they were on strike. Right said tax laws for everyone, and no extra differences. The fishermen and farmers get tax scarves, the rich 40,000, and those with the lowest income a few hundred bills. And only millionaires tend to change their inheritance fees. This gives rise to increased differences. Right said rolling kindergarten recordings, but no. But what they're doing is they're increasing parental pay. The Progress Party and Right pledge change away from 15 pst. equity through the purchase of an apartment or house. What do they do? The finance minister sends a letter where the real content is that one should continue to practice just like one does today. The marching party promised a toll-free Norway. That promise shall take them 300 years to fulfill. It has to be allowed to ask, do they fulfill their vows to young children's parents, students, fishermen and farmers? Are growth packages and anti-competitive measures being removed to improve competitiveness? Does the use of oil money make us less dependent on oil? No, the Right Party and the Advance Party reinforce the two-part division of the Norwegian economy. They weaken the taskbar and increase the differences.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e4473	When the Right-Fremskritspart-regierung took over, they quickly went out and tried to turn their expectations down to their own budget. Now there is, and one can safely say that the changes that have been made give every reason to have low expectations of government policy in the future. The government is failing families to raise child care prices and reduce the paper issue. The government is failing students to reverse the proposal for 11 months of student support. The government is failing those who have the least to increase the differences. However, the government does not fail Norway’s richest. Tax incentives such as: That's almost $10 million for Thon. kr more this year – never before have contributors received faster returns on their money than they and others with large assets that have contributed to filling the Right and the Advance Party election campaign boxes. Most people, however, who like to call them the Progress Party, have to thank them with pocket money – a crown or two a day is the fasit for them. I also note that, in today's debate, the Prime Minister is not concerned about a policy of increasing disparities either. All experience suggests that a policy that stimulates increased disparities, as the government puts it, will make life more difficult for more people. When combined with a welfare policy that is drawn more towards market solutions, and a labour policy that weakens the rights of workers, it gets really bad. The budget was slightly better when the Christian People's Party and Left agreed. As expected, someone got e.g. reverse the cut in the aid budget. Nevertheless, there is every reason to brush the dust of the old metaphor about buttons and glossy images. Never before has anyone been so satisfied with so little. Two small pro-miles of the total budget were moved on – two dollars of each 1000 rag. No wonder the Right and Advance Party smiled widely that they kept 99.8 pst. out of its original budget. Politics is about choice. For us in the Workers' Party, it is most important to pursue a safe economic policy that offers all equal opportunities within a strong welfare society and a safe working life, and – not least – to ensure small differences. Unfortunately, we see that this is threatened by this government. In other words, the Norwegian model is under attack.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e4488	This debate has to a large extent been about the withdrawal of the Right-wing and Progressive Party government and a breach of promises in relation to the great expectations created before the elections. The bag and bag policy proposed to the voters is simply not feasible. When the government claims that it has had too little time to draw up an alternative budget, it's a strange claim. For every one of the eight years under red-green rule, the blue-blue government parties have promoted their alternative budgets, where significant tax cuts have been combined with more for most good purposes. The Minister of Finance's own party has exceeded most of what we've experienced on the promise front. Those who may have the greatest reason to feel cheated are the large group of pensioners. There was no way how much there would be in the wallet for each one, only the Progress Party got out of it. It was tax cuts, the removal of tolls and a significant increase in the regulation of current pensions. Now the Progress Party sits with the power and controls the money bag. The government statement states in black that the pension agreement, as the Progress Party called the retirement age, is solid. What a downfall for all those who believed in the beautiful promises! Now is not the working party of those who are going to complain that the pension settlement is firm. The agreement is about intergenerational solidarity. It was absolutely necessary to ensure that we can afford pensions even in the future, without having to impose on young people in the start-up phase and young children's families a level of taxation they can't reasonably afford, as well as the cost of many of them in a housing market where prices have so far only gone one way. The reality has now also acquired the Progress Party. So to another question where things aren't completely connected: the Right Party and the Advance Party say in the financial position that small differences between people are a strength, that the greatest difference is between people with and without jobs, and that it's worth working. There are two rather clear dividing lines in income and living conditions in Norway today. Both are classic. One distinction goes between men and women, the other between ethnic Norwegians and immigrants. Unfortunately, the differences seem to be the victories, they are propagating themselves to new generations. But instead of following up the red-green commitment to integration and a family policy that strengthens the situation of women in the workplace, the government chooses to go the other way. Women are paid with cash support to stay at home, babysitting is more expensive and the paper is cut. There is a policy that neither women, immigrants nor society as a whole can afford. For some, it is clearly not worth working. Where's the logic?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e4499	There's a lot of things you can wonder about in the choices that the new government is making. As representatives of the West, we were very happy when we saw that they wanted to increase the funds for tunnel protection in particular. It was a positive blow to the West. When you first decided to spend more oil money, we thought this was quite right. In the part of the country I come from, there are a lot of people who every day send their kids on the school road, when they're going to use the roads to get to work or as businessmen, live with the heart of two thirds of the dangerous roads in the West. The main entryway from the east is the road between Bergen and Voss. Since the 1970s, at least 46 people have lost their lives on this road, and it goes by the name of the "way of death". The Gudvanga tunnel, I think most people got along -- where a truck stopped up and took a light, and a lot of people got caught in an inferno in the tunnel without knowing how to get out. No one lost his life, but very many were embossed for life. Then we have the main road from Hardanger to Voss, which was also closed for over a month, which led to a detour of over two hours. That's the reality of the Westerners. Then I am amazed that the Christmas greeting from Erna Solberg home to the West will be to take from just these means – from those who live in this to the day – to plan even more train tracks in the East. I fully understand that there is a great need across the country, but it must be a fair balance in relation to needs. It may be more important to prioritize today's needs than to plan for the future, especially when you remember that 50 pst. investment already goes to the east. We have also learned that the Progress Party does not reach the goal of tolls, but they were also quite clear on saying that they should give priority to what was the greatest benefit to society. And then we see that they give way to the roads in Alta and go to Telemark. But now that you present the Askøy package, which is close to Bergen, or similar to Trondheim, these are not given priority over removing tolls. Then they suddenly use collection costs. The government's signal now concerns the roads with few users and high costs. Is that what is socially useful for the new government? But there is also another side to this social account. Every time you spend more on tolls, you shift other transportation projects. I would like to see the list of investment projects that are now being shifted, because this is not the way – even if we are approaching Christmas – that every time we remove money and spend less toll, the traffic budget increases – because it is the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e4518	During this debate, the topic of ‘knowledge’ has become almost mythical — mythical because there are probably as many perceptions of the subject matter as there are people in this room, perhaps even more. At the same time, it gets nodded with a kind of recognition and community when the embrace is called, as if it were an old friend who had been named. Or was it in the government's speech that knowledge, in all its forms, should the government win? It becomes like knowledge is something that you can capture. It's like in the movie 'The Fire War' where a tribe has acquired the flame that triggers a war that lasts largely throughout the action of the film. The question is not who talks the most about knowledge, the question is who best understands and who best facilitates knowledge. As a philosopher, I will guard myself against making a safe diagnosis, but I can say that knowledge is not something that can be instrumentally implemented in the student, the student, or in society like that. It needs to be facilitated by curiosity, innovation, creativity. It's not a thing that can be bought, it has to be understood and recognized, or to quote a child philosopher: it has to be cultivating over time. In other words, there is no quick fix that makes schools, universities or businesses glow with creativity and creativity. A culture of knowledge must be created. Cultivation begins in childhood. The red-green government's nursery effort has put into practice what we know is best for children's development of knowledge, and has raised the sector from being a place for development. Nothing is more important to man than a good and positively challenging childhood. The red-green government has put into practice what we know works for the learning of the student, by facilitating a comprehensive approach to knowledge that is both theoretical, aesthetic and practical. We have even introduced fruit and green and increased physical activity, because we know that it contributes positively to knowledge and development. Similarly, we have reduced the test pressure on children and young people, because we know that it can have a negative effect on the inner motivation for knowledge. And we suggested strengthening the student economy because we know that a life where you have to work in a store as much as you study does not lead to the big discoveries. When the new government now puts its last hand on its first budget, they show a different understanding. Kindergartens will cut a total of 600 million. kr, the schools become barbed for culture and vitamins, and the student economy is sacrificed – for what? For what priority is given when the government that creates the knowledge society allows the big money to go from children, young people and students to those with great inheritance and wealth – from knowledge to capital?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e4533	The Right Party and the Progress Party have created the impression that health policy should be an important policy area. They were to have new solutions and put down the regional businesses. A year ago, these parties referred to the non-preferential corporate organisation. Now they can live well with her, because in the budget we can read that the change will only take place once a national health and hospital plan has been drawn up, signed and worked. It'll take decades. Even with 4 billion more crowns of oil to use, the Right-front Party government won't pay another penny to treat patients in public hospitals. It's an increase of 300 million. kr for private use. Forty-five million. NOK of this will be used for the purchase of private MR studies. This means that health professionals are prohibited from using free capacity in public health services. In my home country, this means that Health West is not allowed to use available capacity on the MR machines at Stord and Voss hospitals. Private supply is to be given priority; public supply is to be down-prioritized. All-semillions are now directly from the state budget of a commercial health company without competition. Before the option, the Right and Advance parties made it appear that they were busy in drug treatment. They have industriously criticized the red-green russorge. But the Right-front party government doesn't give a penny more to municipal delinquency, despite a 4 billion frame. kr higher. The budget increase referred to was 343 million. kr for municipal work is taken directly from municipalities. According to the Right Party and the Progress Party, the money moving posts on the State budget shall now ensure both real capacity gain on the drug field, several reception centres in the big cities, seamless transition from detoxification to rehabilitation and after-sales protection from the first day. The effect of ear marking on new dimensions. The government will require in the mission document that hospitals have more growth in the field of drugs and mental health than in somatic diseases — also referred to as the ‘golden rule’. But it's not to strengthen the psychiatry and russiness area, because even without such a rule, the growth of the psychiatry area is still the largest. The government should realize that there are now local authorities' challenges. According to a new SINTEF report, 7 pst. of all psychiatric patients present at any time, waiting for print-out facilities in the municipalities. Every fourth hospitalization in psychiatry could be avoided with better municipal provision. The specialist services do not primarily need more money – they need the right patients. The right hand side and the progress side have made several re-priorities. It was as expected. Most of it's politics, but something's petty. In view of the increase in the use of oil money, it is petty to take free fruit and green from school students and to cut overnight supplies for sick people with long distances to treatment places. They should have had as much care for private and commercial health companies as they should have had for people who need...
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e4548	That's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e4551	Yes, but then I quit.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e4556	It has been interesting in many ways to follow the financial debate today. I note that the red-green parties believe that the government's submitted budget, as well as the comparison with the Christian People's Party and the Left, is a budget that takes the country in the wrong direction. With all due respect for different views, it may be appropriate to recall that we have recently had a choice behind us, the voters have expressed their opinion by voting for a new majority, a new policy and a new government. And the new government is delivering. It represents a new course and already in its first budget provides a new direction in which we are able to prioritise, unlike the red-green ones, which unfortunately have tended to use growth in oil revenues to iron out a thin layer of public funds across almost all areas. Unlike the red-green parties, we are able to prioritize, demonstrate action and follow-up in the areas that have been important to us, through the cooperation agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, and through the Sundvolden Declaration. The direction is clear. Areas such as knowledge, research, transport, increased health spending, especially in psychiatry and alcohol, increased commitment to police, preparedness, and tax relief – and last but not least, that we remove the inheritance tax in its entirety from the turn of the year. This is a budget that will increase the inequalities in society, it's claimed from the red-green parties. Then I will repeat what has been said several times by my colleagues in the Right through the debate today, namely that what creates inequality and the huge differences between the inhabitants of this country is whether they have a job or not. Job means income and security in the everyday life of the individual. And, as the Minister of Labour mentioned earlier in the debate, 2012 figures showed that around 600 000 people between 18 and 67 years of age are out of work and are on health-related benefits. This will make it essential to get the most involved in work and to have a high-growth business and business life, which, in addition to the public sector, will receive and can offer good and safe jobs. And what gives the individual job opportunity? Well, not least education and knowledge are important. I record that the main figures from the red-green parties are very much not focusing on knowledge during the debate here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e4574	On this pulpit, I think you should be careful to be honest, and to be honest, I think the eternal discussion about it is going to be 1 pst. or 0,99 pst. GNI in assistance is a derailment. The question of ‘how much’ is important, but it is far more important to discuss ‘what’, ‘why’ and ‘how’, in view of the objective of Norwegian development policy. The government will focus on results and not least on controls related to how the money is spent, because it is important to know if they are used in line with the intentions. It's e.g. clearly contrary to the intentions when Norwegian aid millions have been put into stock exchange shares or have disappeared on the road, as a result of corruption. Zero tolerance to aid-related corruption should be pursued, even if it is demanding. With the means that Norway makes available, distributed over hundreds of projects and countries, it is also our responsibility to follow up, so that the money goes to what they intend to go to. The party of progress is confident that today's government will actively follow up the control work and the results orientation. There is no better cure for poverty and misery than good old-fashioned market economy. Adam Smith drums Karl Marx any day. It's just looking at developments in the world over the last decades. The countries that have opened up their economies and facilitated freer trade are also the countries that have experienced the greatest growth in prosperity and that have lifted millions of people out of poverty. Or to quote Bono in U2: capitalism has been the most effective ideology we know, when it comes to lifting people out of extreme poverty. The bulk of the poverty promise has happened in China. It's because China has chosen to open up its economy and let go to the private sector. China deserves recognition for that. I am pleased that this government prioritises industrial promotion, industrial development and investment in developing countries. To be honest one more time: I have never understood why it should be so wrong to attract Norwegian business, their interests and not least their competence into development policy. It serves Norwegian business, and it serves the poor countries and their populations. It is also about looking at poor countries and their populations as resources, rather than clients. Contributing to the creation of profitable and good jobs in developing countries is now a central development policy objective. It is not about blowing up the public sector in poor countries, but it is about giving air under the wings of the private sector. Earlier today, in this Chamber, the representative Lundtägen made a flaming contribution to the market economy and free trade. I will end by warning against the dangers of protectionism. Protectionism is not the answer to either the rich or the poor world's challenges. Protectionism is not the solution to any of the world's things. It's rather the problem and the cause of a lot of misery.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e4605	This budget is the first in eight years in which the Storting has had a major influence on the device and a crucial role in its final appearance. The field in which this manifests itself is the environmental profile of the budget. In October, the then red-green government presented a weak environmental budget, with only a small adjustment linked to a green tax shift. The new government presented an additional position that made this budget even worse. Nevertheless, we now have a budget that is a good budget for the environment. Changes have been made so that we now have a good first budget to implement a more offensive environmental policy in the years to come. We do that by making zero VAT on electric cars and battery packs. Fuel oil is subject to a higher fee. Transnova now receives an increase in grants – despite two proposals to weaken Transnova – and can complement its position in the coming year. There are improvements in the field of classical nature protection, but above all there is a significant commitment on the railways to avoid a maintenance run, but also to plan more offensively, in order to put in place a modern railway in Norway in the years to come. There's a consensus that you have to look at the intercity triangle as a big project. Here are also planning materials that allow for taking the next step in the planning of the Ringerix Railway. We have an agreement to look again at the possibility of a high-speed rail link to Gothenburg. For the Left, it is also important that we can not only plan for actions that benefit the population after many years. We also have to look at the possibilities we have to optimize the system we have today. We will look in the budgets ahead at the possibility of strengthening capacity, whether it is on Kongsvingerbanen, Jären, towards Gjøvik or Hokksund, as well as the plans that are also in the national transport plan around Trondheim and otherwise in Trondelag. So rapporteur – I mean president – I was a little disturbed by the fact that I saw the Environment Minister driving an electric car with the City Council in Oslo on the TV2 news tonight. This is perhaps indicative, because in that city, almost every environmental measure proposed and implemented is just proposed and implemented in cooperation with the Left, and it has been the Left that has been a driver for this. Now we have an opportunity to use our position on Stortinget to implement offensive environmental policies in the years to come. This is a good start, but it's just a start.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e4634	The President finds it appealing that the representative is so enthusiastic about his own excellence that he loses his head in the form of charges, but we still have time to hold.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e4637	President, have you ever felt the blessing of nature? Have you ever run barefoot in the pine forest and known the extra spike that the pine needles give? Have you bathed in a water in the deciduous forest as you shine in the light that shines through the leaves? Or went quietly skiing in the Easter sun up to Torfinn's horgy in silence, except for the sound of the skis that intersect in the snow? For just then you know the blessing of nature. I think this is worth taking care of, President, do you agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e4642	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e4645	It's nodding. But I'm afraid the government doesn't agree. When they refuse municipalities to mention and use the term ‘intrusive nature’ as a reason to preserve that very nature. When they want to make cars for people the most expensive, while they cut in the taxes on luxury cars and fuel extinguishers. When they say they're for environmentally friendly purchases in the country, but cut out the department that's going to take care of that particular purchase. When they cut in the clean-up of old mining pollution and spend the money on new mines instead. When they cut in the main work of the Environment Directorate and open up a cruise to all municipalities that will – strongly contrary to public opinion – and cut in the appropriations for those who would supervise the cruise. I am afraid that we have a government that says it will take care of nature, but as in all the important priorities it will do, where the consideration of nature should be weighed up against other considerations – such as oil or fish, mining or clean fjord, archipelago open to all or fenced for the few, ancient forest or pasture, natural diversity or highway, shooting or nature experience – will let nature lose. Today I was on ultrasound for the first time, and if everything goes as I hope, I'll let my daughter run bare in the pine forest, bathe in the lavender light and lure her with mercury all the way up to Torfinnsho. And if the old pine forest hasn't been killed, if the mining has not made the water impossible to bathe in, or the shanty-brow drowns the skis that cut through the crowd, then I'll smile at her and see that her smile discovers the blessing of nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e4654	While the next speaker, the representative of the Harek Rivers, finds the way up to the pulpit, the president of the last post will notice that he has had such natural experiences, but that he knows all the natural experiences that have been put on. That seems to be the President's reason to stress.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e4657	It was reassuring to hear. I take the floor to clarify a manifest misunderstanding with which the representative Sverre Myrli baler, and that concerns Fornebubanen. Either the representative Sverre Myrli was not present during the statements of the Minister of Transport, or he was logged off for a moment. It is work on the regulatory plan that is critical in the development of Fornebubanen. The plan is that Bærum municipality should have its regulatory plan ready in the summer of 2014, and Oslo during 2015. Then, said the Minister of Transport, the state is ready to set up with 50 pst. in contributions to cover the costs of building the track. Fornebuban is part of Oslopackak 3. Given that the planning process is going as planned, the construction of Fornebubanen will begin during 2017 – that is what Transport Minister Ketil Solvik-Olsen said today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e4666	Today's debate is likely to be repeated several times in the coming years. There is no criticism of the red-greens – I think the posts from the red-greens today were as expected. I feel like they're a little defensive. It is possible that they have a little to go on, but a government that has gone off – which I like to call the swing control – that has been sitting for eight years and swinging back and forth without moving anywhere, must of course feel like a shock that the Storting actually does something. The representative of Elvesuen was also involved. Over the last eight years, the Storting hasn't done anything. The most important thing in today’s debate — and the most important thing in today’s document as well — is perhaps that the Stortinget has actually been revitalised. Although I see that the negotiations in Stortinget have been tough, and that one is not quite satisfied – but the Christian People's Party is satisfied, the Left is satisfied, the Right is satisfied and the Advance Party is partly satisfied – we have at least vitalized the Stortinget. At least there must be a bright spot for those who have represented the red-green ones, and who have not done anything in eight years either – for them this must be a solar beam. Then there's another thing that's important, and where I feel a certain arrogance from outgoing government parties: For the first time in several elections, the Storting reflects the real majority of the people. It's also an important thing. We have had eight years with a government that has not, in fact, had a real majority of the people – it is the electoral system that has facilitated the resignation of the government. It must also be important today. Now we have at least a majority that reflects the people and their wishes. What I think I heard resigned Prime Minister Stoltenberg say most times, in election fighting and earlier, is: "We've done a lot, but we're not satisfied." This government has been sitting for five weeks and has been doing a little, but of course is not satisfied. But then it's also that this government actually has 203 of 208 weeks left, so maybe it's that the storm of criticism will eventually subside – because what's on the ground here today, and what's to be adopted, is actually a movement. It's a clear change of course in relation to what's been established for eight years, and I think that this nation has very, very good of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e4682	I think, as some have said before, that this has been a debate that has been interesting, but also very predictable, at my discretion. The most predictable thing about it is that we once again discuss the Right Party and the Advance Party's policy – as we have done in the previous eight years, even though we had a different government. I take note of that. That means we're as interesting today as we were with another government. I might have expected those who used to be in government, and now are in opposition, to talk about their own policy, but I haven't experienced that as the most prominent thing in the debate today. It has repeatedly pointed out all the shortcomings of the new government and the proposals on the table. Of course, that's allowed. It's part of what we do in democracy – within the rules of the game we have. But it may be – with all due respect – that those who have voted in parties other than those who now belong to the government base have wanted to hear about their own policies. It might not have been stupid, but it's now that it gets the Center Party, SV and others to decide. And as if that were not enough, I also see to my great surprise that you are concerned that we are so slow – these things are going on for so long, we haven't had to remove all the toll stations that we have promised. Then I allow myself to remember a financial debate some time ago, when the previous government granted 50 million. kr – I think it was – for the start of the construction of double tracks on the Eastfold track. It was not to be completed in the same harvest, it was not to be completed in the same period – it was not to be completed in the election period afterwards. This was quite unproblematic, because a start-up amount had been granted. Where is this tolerance now? Why don't you have the same "slag" in your heel after showing success now? This government has said, "We have ambitions, but give us more than the weeks we've had, and we're going to deliver." And the nice thing is, it's not this assembly that's going to decide the future of today's government -- it's everybody on the outside of this house that's going to. Your experience of what is happening here, I feel extremely convinced that is significantly different from the negative description that today's opposition stands for. I'm proud to belong to a government that is highly committed to transportation. I live in a relatively long-distance state – as many others here do – and the recurring theme during the campaign was transportation, transportation and again transportation. The reason is that over a long time there has not been enough political focus on this. I don't understand the previous government, but I don't understand the government until then. Now you've taken the roof. A significant boost has been made – far above what has been done in the past. In this way, we're on a safe footing. In addition, there is a strong commitment to the justice sector. I'm glad we're approaching clarification on the purchase of new rescue helicopters and the ambition to increase the number of police officers and increased security for people. People who are taxpayers are entitled to some common property. Police services are one of them. This is where the new government is going to deliver.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e4695	We in the Right believe that the public should facilitate a society in which art and culture have good conditions. So far I think there's quite a broad consensus – also far into the red-green sphere. But then it stops abruptly, because the left-hand side seems to think that it means that it is the state that should contribute – and preferably no one else. Okay, it might be a foundation, to enjoy some commercial corporations in new and no, if you stick a little bit to your nose, but whatever the state. It's kind of something safe and unchangeable about it. And then it's gratifying to have control. With the public money, it has often followed strong leadership and management of the content of art. Right wants something else. We believe that we should spread power, give as much confidence as possible, and that all good forces should be invited. We believe that when we spread power and give trust, it may even show up some better solutions from time to time. Concerns have been expressed by the red-green side when private actors want to participate and contribute to cultural life. It is an aversion — and in these days even an action — to private sponsorship of cultural life. Where the Right believes that, with its support, private actors are constructive co-players who contribute to greater diversity, we find forces on the left that will stop private companies they do not like, at the latest in an action aimed at stopping companies in the petroleum industry if they want to sponsor cultural life. So an oil crown from the state is clean and pretty, while a crown from the state-owned Statoil is dirty and dirty – a very strange paradox. So a little bit depending on where on the left side of the villa you've been thinking, we feel that it's the state, and no one else, who's going to be the sovereign art mass and benefactor. That's not how we want it to the right. We know that it is difficult for cultural life to arouse the business interest on its own. The last culture needs to be unforeseeable about whether sponsorship is okay or not. Of course it's okay. It is an unsolved potential for private contributions to cultural life. The amount of private gifts is very modest in Norway. Contributions shall not replace public support; they shall be a welcome supplement. We see good results from our neighbouring countries, most recently in Sweden, where a recent study shows that the commitment of Swedish business to art and culture has contributed to increased diversity and attention. In addition, it has also helped to strengthen the public’s understanding. The government is now establishing a gift-enhancing scheme for the cultural field, and this is one way to stimulate new actors to contribute financially to Norwegian cultural life. Furthermore, the Right in Government has taken seriously the proposal for a new knowledge centre for culture and nutrition and has proposed to increase the grant for establishment from 1.5 million. NOK 5 million. NOK – State crowns, to release several private crowns.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e4710	This has been a clarification debate. We have now received a government that has given a clear message to Norwegian traders: the toolbox is to be emptied. The market's going to be rough. Nutrient policies shall be reintroduced in all areas. There is a clear line, whether it goes to forestry, whether it goes to the powerful industry, whether it goes to agriculture, whether it goes to fishing, whether it goes to the district-oriented instruments to create innovation and innovation: the instruments are being tapped. We in the Center Party think it's fundamental error when we see the economic situation we're up against. We believe that these instruments should be reinforced, not weakened, and that we should have an interaction between the state and the business community to help bring forward the good ideas, the better solutions and create development across the country. A business-neutral policy will create greater differences and fewer jobs over time. Another thing that has been quite clear in the debate is that the government had to spend more oil money, what was already there was not enough. That a finance minister from the Progress Party wants to spend more oil money may not be very surprising, but it is interesting to read what the finance minister writes in his position. She writes that if we had used 4 pst., it would undermine the growth capacity and stability of the mainland economy. It's very clarifying and clear speech from the party leader in the Progress Party. With that speech, the party leader in the Progress Party has said that the electoral pledge of the Advance Party was to increase the annual appropriations for transport by 45 billion. kr per year, has been buried, because it is not possible to obtain. So it was a little over 1 billion. kr instead of 45 brd. kr, as the Progress Party promised in July. With the clear speech, the leader of the Progress Party has said that their promise to cut all toll companies is not possible, it is unrealistic politics, it will create instability and undermine the growth of the Norwegian mainland economy. When the main priority of the government is taxation, it is amazing that the Minister of Finance is unable to respond to the impact that tax practices will have on business and the extent to which tax practices provide tax relief for business. When the supplementary proposal was there, the answer from the Minister of Finance was approx. $800 million. kr. When we saw the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, it was tightening up for business, so it's probably around zero. Therefore, the government has to stop saying that these are tax havens to stimulate growth; these are tax havens to stimulate more private consumption. It's short-sighted and it's unwise. The freedom of action should be used to create more innovation and more jobs rather than to give more consumption.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e4721	The representative Sandberg characterised the opposition as ‘defensive’. It is quite clear that it must be difficult for the representative Sandberg, who has been on the front line of the characteristics of the Norwegian society of the Progress Party, to suddenly be in an administrative role. What's the big, remarkable thing that happened after the election is how fast the Progress Party has been normalized as a lot. It should take over Sandberg. It is not primarily about tolls. The representative Sandberg and the Progress Party have a story that says they're supposed to represent most people. If they had taken the goal of doing it from the government position, even now with the finance minister from their party, they could give the big tax reliefs to people most, and not to those who are the richest. But they don't. It is the most obvious demonstration that the Progress Party is what I allow myself to say – and as I have always said – namely, a clear populist right-wing party, because that is what it is. But this isn't the most special thing. The leader of the Progress Party and the current finance minister, Siv Jensen, said ten times in his national meeting in spring that the Norwegian way of organizing society was in the way of the Norwegian people. She said it ten times – we have counted now tonight. In 37 minutes, she's standing here digging her entire analysis. As Minister of Finance, she stands out as the guarantor of financing the entire social system she has intended to stand in the way of the Norwegian people. It's the Progress Party. Of course, what bothers the representative Sandberg and the Progress Party is not primarily the defensive role – it’s just something they’re irritating to talk away from the fact that they’ve become an administrative party in well over a month – I think it’s okay in the sense that I could be tempted to say that one would think that the progress party code was then solved, but it’s not. What is new, and what we are facing in this budget, is that they will gradually dismantle what Minister of Finance Siv Jensen has called a social model that stands in the way of the Norwegian people. That's what's about to happen in the quiet. For my part, I'm not fooled. The opposition is not going to be fooled. We're going to follow you step by step, and we're going to give you the characteristics you deserve, right hand side.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e4733	We'll be in the 13th hour soon. I would like to thank you for a good debate. I believe that this budget has been well-lit. We have developed many interesting dividing lines in politics, but also things that unite. That's what we've said multiple times that 99 pst. of this budget is what the Government of Stoltenberg II presented. Then I would also say that there are several good additions in this budget, which we express that we are in favour of. There's evidence that there's a fairly broad community here. Nevertheless, there are three characteristics, and I think it's the opposition's role to mark it, as this day has well highlighted in this budget, and which I think are the lines in our opposition to the implementation of the budget. One is that the absolute winner in the budget is the tax cuts. It's a budget for increasing differences. It's not possible to talk about it, the tables show it. The course is set, and the finance minister says it's just the start. I believe that it does not equip us to meet the challenges we face. We've been giving up a society of small differences, which can be good from a political point of view, but it's also an efficient and modern way of organizing society. We're becoming more adaptable, and we can make wiser choices. The second is that there is a budget that goes up by spending more oil money. It makes us more oil dependent, and it shows failing ability to prioritize. So it was in the pension fund that you had to go to finance these tax cuts. The third is that, in addition to several proposals that came through the conciliation, and in the proposition for which we are, such as health, police, teacher's lift, rushes, psychiatry, coastguard and part of the measures in the field of transport, there is a budget with many outdated solutions. I want to highlight in particular what is related to work, well-being and family policy — more expensive kindergartens, fewer kindergartens and increased cash support are actions that seem to be wrong in terms of work and well-being. There are interesting moves to follow in the time to come. Then, during the day, there has been a debate about whether we are on our way to tougher times in the Norwegian economy. I think the Minister of Finance has been wise in referring to the calculations that come from the Ministry of Finance, and that is also what we in the Stortinget have to deal with. Here we have the proposition we got three weeks ago, we're waiting for the Central Statistical Office, but it's important that both government and population follow closely, so that we can take the right measures at tougher times. I don't think the right measures are ever more and more tax reliefs, but it's to understand where the challenges arise in the competitive part of our business – and they need other measures to improve their situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e4752	It was not at all in my mind or in my opinion to hurt the representative Kolberg. I seem to remember saying in my post that I felt that the working party and the red-greens were a bit defensive. When I said that, I thought maybe we'd get a little bit more pressure during today's debate. But then I say that it can of course come later. Then there must be a bright spot in the case that the representative Kolberg feels that he has normalized the Progress Party. That means we've been abnormal in the past. Then there is a certain danger that especially in the Workers' Party will feel extremely abnormal for many years to come when they have lost their power, lost their power of definition, lost their power of opinion to all others who had to express and think otherwise in Norwegian policy. It will be an interesting thing to follow. Because I actually think that just through the budget to be adopted here, people will label changes. And that's just the little changes that we've had little time to change in the budget from the red-green. Only here you'll notice the differences. What is most important here was the representative Gahr Støre himself that we are going towards other times. It's gonna be tougher times. It was predicted in the election campaign also by the Workers' Party. Those times might meet with some other tool. Then it's important that you have an open toolbox, that you take out the tool that's in that box, that's available, and use the tool. Now the toolbox has been closed for eight years. That's what you're doing in this government. The most important thing today about the budget is the investment in infrastructure. That is quite right: the party of progress could have wanted a significantly larger increase in infrastructure, but then it is that, unlike the Workers' Party, we must respect democracy. 83.7 pst. will not use more resources on infrastructure. 83.7 pst. will still have tolls. And even 16.3 pst. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e4763	I would also like to thank you for a good debate. Now I also understand the reason that, at one point in the evening, there was a little emptiness with workers' party representatives in the hall. They were obviously in a room and looked at the price they wanted, and it was the national meeting of the party leader, Siv Jensen. So we have at least explained the reason for that! It was one of my colleagues who said in the back of the hall here that I have basically said what I have had on my heart, and definitely heard what I need to hear. We might be able to agree on more of these after almost 13 hours of debate. We are pleased on the part of the Christian People's Party with the impact we have had on the budgetary agreement we have concluded with the three other non-socialist parties here – yes, we have the Central Party, which is also non-socialist, I remember. At the same time, it's interesting that you're not entirely able to decide from the opposition. To focus on the 99 percent, which is exactly the same as in the budget of the Stoltenberg government, or to focus on the one percent, which is obviously so bad that someone is afraid that there will be a Ragnarok, as presented by some on the newscasts tonight. I don't need to review why we're satisfied, except that we see that we've got a strengthened social profile through the budgetary agreement. We've got a greener profile, we've got a more business-friendly profile, and we've got a profile that strengthens knowledge and research. Finally, we have also had a more vitalized magnification. I think that's a good thing, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e4776	During this debate, many representatives from the right have expressed concern at the criticism of the opposition and at the high level of attention given to the Right and the Advance Party in the financial debate. But something else would be strange, because it is that the Minister of Finance is right in one thing, and it is that the government is making some changes now to Norwegian policies that are essential, that are important, that are going to change Norway. We have asked many questions in the debate today and have not received so many answers. Finished speech points have been used extensively to say so. Because, with the exception of the whole-hearted defense of child welfare in their own constituency – which was otherwise a courageous and honest act – there has been little willingness to go into the substance of government policy, to go beyond the first rhetorical points of growth-promoting taxes, and that people get more in the wallet. We still have some answers. We know that the economic differences in Norway will increase next year with this budget — probably for the first time in quite many years. We know that more women will be at home with this budget. It's even in the additional proposition from the government. We know that fewer refugees, such as refugees from war and distress and persecution, will come to Norway as a result of this budget. We know that less money will be spent on aid, and the use of oil money will go up without giving any particular reason other than that the government needs the money for its tax policy. It is an immature policy; it is a policy for a less voiced Norway, a more gendered Norway, a more economic and geographically divided Norway and a Norway with less heart space. It only surprises me even more, after this debate, after having heard the speeches of the progressive party politicians after the progress party politicians – and perhaps especially the speech by the representative Tybring-Gjedde – that the Christian People's Party and the Left are leaning towards engaging in committed cooperation with the Progress Party on Budget. We are told in SV that we should not have had a choice in Norway, and that on the red-green side we lost that choice. Well, it's very easy to notice, and children's families and students and women and refugees are among the groups that are going to notice the best next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e4787	We are soon on our way to adopt what I have understood by the opposition, is a pointless budget that goes in the wrong direction. When the representative Gahr Støre says that tables show that this is a budget that creates differences, I would like to say that no tables around the world can show any difference. [[Laughter]] What's different is what we've repeated from here many times today. It's creating jobs that make people whether they're inside or out of work. That's what creates the big differences in society. If you have a job, you can do yourself. But in order to get those jobs, it has to be invested, and you use a lot of effort to prove that the government's tax incentives do not create jobs. But then one denies the fact that in order to create jobs, someone has to invest. It doesn't always happen to the companies themselves, it's actually someone who owns these companies, and uses the capital for it. Yes, I hear someone mentions this as shareholders, but there are not many of them in Norway. It's mostly owners who sit around the whole country. In addition, I think that the opposition has to decide whether the government is now paying for nutritional neutrality, as they call it, because they no longer want to be nutritionally specific. We have heard representatives who have called for industry-specific measures in the wake of this temperature measurement on the Norwegian economy that came. I think that if the red-green government meant something about food-specific measures, we have a very good example in Norwegian wood processing and Norwegian forestry, where we spent several years deciding whether to do something about the vehicle regulation, which was absolutely central to whether to make money or one in Norwegian wood processing. I think that's very central. So to the last one that's been a topic, about the use of oil money. The representative Gahr Støre says we're becoming even more oil dependent. Oil dependence on budgets is created over time, not over any harvest weeks in Norwegian policy. The oil dependence we have has been creating over many years by not investing the increased use of oil money in the right way into growth-enhancing measures, tax reliefs, infrastructure, knowledge, school and research. That's what creates jobs in the long term, that's what creates less oil dependence in the long term. No one can create that oil addiction in just a few weeks.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e4798	First, I would also like to thank you for a good debate. I thought it was a classic debate between position and opposition, and I thought the opposition had done their job well. It's a role I know well about. The opposition has an important role to play in such a debate – it is, of course, to point out what they think should be done better. One has a saying that every country has a government, but only democracy has an opposition. Of course, it is not surprising that the party has built its entire policy of keeping a high tax burden is very important for well-being. In many ways, the impression has been that proper well-being is not created until you receive money from the residents in taxes and taxes and get them distributed again. It is, of course, entirely regrettable that one then criticises the tax and tax burden and asks questions about whether they are correct. But they're right. The development we have seen for many years, that competitiveness has become weak, is now reversed by providing tax relief, by strengthening investment in infrastructure. It will improve competitiveness. The representative, Battle Force Vedum, is very concerned about the amount of 7.3 billion. kr that goes to private individuals and how much goes to businesses. It's simply not that easy to say. If we take the property tax, it's quite enough private people who pay it, but it's not like those who pay the property tax have their own account they pick it up. Usually, when company owners have to pay taxes on wealth, they do it by deducting money from the company. It weakens businesses, it makes them less competitive, and it also makes the workplaces of these companies more unsafe. The exact same applies to the inheritance fee. When you have to pay the inheritance tax because you have a small company, it is that if you do not have the money ready to pay this inheritance tax – and it shows all the numbers – you will usually have to deduct these money from the company. It weakens the enterprise, making the workplaces of the enterprise unsafe. This is why it is sensible tax incentives that will strengthen business and strengthen jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e4811	The representative Sandberg said that he did not intend to dissuade me. I can assure the representative Sandberg through Stortinget that I do not have the intention for him either. But I have another purpose: to talk about his political project. He talked about the power of definition, that the problem for us who are social democrats and represent the Workers' Party now must be that we have lost the power of definition. What's very special about this situation is that all the criticisms that the Sandberg and the Progress Party have been making over forty years, now obviously no longer apply. Those are the ones that have lost the power of definition, and that's what's special. They have so systematically characterized Norwegian society as an immature society, a society that is not on the verge of modernity. But now they've put most of it aside -- that's what's my point. Then we don't feel that this is worrying. The worrying thing is that it is not a directionless budget. It is a budget with a clear direction — towards a liberal economic development that other European countries have so clearly demonstrated that it creates more difficulties than benefits. That's what's serious about what's going to be adopted here in a few minutes. It is also the first step for Norway towards a liberal economic development that there are no examples of solving neither the unemployment nor the problems for most people, as the representative Sandberg has been talking about for years. Now I see Minister of Finance Siv Jensen sitting here. Then, in my opinion, she should come up to this pulpit and answer two questions. The first is: what economies in Europe or in the world are those which, after the development of liberalism, have created more soothsaying, more justice and full employment? What are some examples? That's the one. The second question is in relation to what I said in my previous post: She should tell Stortinget if she still supports the Norwegian model, or if she has left the criticism she has so thoroughly voiced against the Norwegian organisation, as she did in her national meeting speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e4822	Such a financial debate is likely to go for the expected track, but nevertheless there are interesting clarifications. One interesting clarification is the Right's view of distribution and balancing. Every time the Right Party, by the Prime Minister, the Fleet or others, has been challenged by division today, the answer has been that it is not so important, it is just tables or Stoltenberg's macro, as the Prime Minister called it today – what is important is to create jobs. But what is unique about Norway? The unique thing about Norway is that we have managed to have Europe's lowest unemployment rate, Europe's strongest well-being and Europe's strongest policy for distribution at the same time. That is what this financial debate is now giving a clear response from the government – distribution policy is no longer important; it is just tables and macros. But it's not just tables. It's people's economy. I got a piece of money from our financial advisor, Jonas Gahr Støre – he had it in his pocket. It is tax cut per day for people who have less than 450 000 kroner in income. It's most people's money from the Right Party government. You're serving over 10 million. kr, you get almost a year's salary in tax cuts. This is what Svein Fleet calls tables, this is what the Prime Minister calls Stoltenberg's macro – it's not macro at all to get a penny a day in tax cuts. So Per Sandberg says that the Progress Party must have been abnormal before, since they're now becoming normal. Yes, the Progress Party was abnormal – and now I'm not going to talk about values or what Kjell Magne Bondevik calls human vision and that kind of thing – but it's abnormal to promise the voters 100 billion. kr in tax cuts. There were no other parties who understood how this was going to happen. It was abnormal to suggest 45 billion. In transport appropriations each year, it was unusual to suggest that all tolls should be removed in Norway. No one understood how it was going to go, but the Progress Party not only promised, but they guaranteed that if they had a seat in the driving chair, all tolls would be removed. The second explanation in this debate is that these promises are dead and powerless. Hopefully, we won't hear them any more. The progress party must deal with the same economic framework as others. What would have been interesting, of course, is to hear about the leader of the Progress Party, who is now Finance Minister, the time she promised the tolls would go away, when she promised 45 bn. I should have spent NOK 100 billion on the transport budget. kr was to be spent on tax cuts, and when she promised that a dozen billion dollars of oil money would be spent, really believed in that at the time, or if she knew better – and that she really knew that the day she was sitting in the finance minister's chair, these promises were to be forgotten and abandoned. Lucrey would be called it in the Sale of Goods Act. Obviously, in the election debate, most of it is law.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e4837	The President is uncertain as to whether «lurriment» is a parliamentary expression. The representative of Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e4842	We are still waiting for the leader of the Progress Party, Siv Jensen, to make some clarifications in the debate – we look forward to it with excitement. What's clarifying with Gjermund Hagesetter's answer is that when the main priority of the Progress Party and the Right was tax credits, they haven't done any proper calculations for how it turns out for business, and they don't understand the calculation themselves. One of the things that is, to put it mildly, surprising about what we are going to vote for afterwards is that it is first decided to remove the inheritance fee, and then we are asked for an investigation afterwards. Usually you get an investigation first to see the consequences, and when you see the consequences, you decide what to do. But the Right and Advance Party have introduced a new practice: first we adopt it and then we investigate the consequences. I believe that the wise and smart would have been to do the opposite. With regard to the wood processing industry, when the government wanted to remove the CO2 compensation scheme, it will be reduced by about 50 million. In the case of appropriations for the creation of new products and the creation of new developments in forest and woodworking, the representative fleet should be careful to criticise.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e4854	I'm not going to interfere in the debate between Martin Kolberg and Per Sandberg, but Martin Kolberg is great at using big words. When you hear him talk about the power of definition, there's no doubt that Martin Kolberg believes that the Workers' Party has the power of definition and is going to have the power of definition forever. But the market economy works, in fact, and the market works completely independently of the Workers' Party – incredibly, it does. It's the one that gets people out of poverty, and that's done it and keeps doing it all over the globe. And to the representative of Kolberg, that's how a person who earns his salary earns 100 pst. 100 pst. of the salary to which it belongs, and the person must then be on a split team to finance what is deemed necessary by the public. It is not that it is the right rate of taxation at any time. If you can do something more to stimulate people to work more, or do it so that businesses and owners can invest more, you can do it. That's what we're trying to do with this budget, that's to stimulate people to invest more and work more, get people away from social security. And it's not that this Workers Party budget is so great, it's not that it's full employment. There are quite a number of people today in social security in this country, as the Labour Party has governed most of the time. There are quite a number of people who have to get away from social security and get into work. Then jobs must be created. As the representative Fleet said, jobs must be created, they do not come of their own. The only place they get by themselves is in the public sector, and we'd rather not have more. There we want fewer, and then we want more in the private sector, which can create more values, so there's more to share. That's what makes sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e4864	The representative Per Sandberg has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e4867	Just a brief comment, because I was a little frustrated after the last article by the representative of Kolberg. He opens with criticising me and the Progress Party because everything we have said, and what we have covered in the action programme, is waiting – that we have, like, put a line across everything. I can assure the representative of Kolberg and Stortinget that we have not. But then it is the next round and the end of the representative Kolberg who surprises me, because then he attacks the Progress Party and this government – and that is what the representative Kolberg must have, it was nice to say, because he is the one in the opposition who sees it – for a clear direction with a liberalist course. So first everything that the Advance Party stands for is put on hold, but at the same time Kolberg says that he sees a clear liberalist course. Now you have to decide what you see in this budget – a little in the right direction. Then it's like we're going to deal with the same frames, says the representative Giske. But what we've done here shows that other frameworks can be found, and the lead position of the Progress Party is that there are new frameworks, other frameworks.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e4874	The representative Snorre Serigstad Valen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e4877	I just thought to note that, as far as I know, it is common for the Minister of Finance to respond to some of the challenges that have arisen in the course of the debate, at the end of the debate. There has been no lack of concrete challenges, at the latest from the representative Giske, who had a number of very specific questions that the Minister of Finance must be able to answer. Personally, I am still interested in, among others. to hear the professional economic rationale for increasing the use of oil money in the current economic situation. So I just want to challenge the Minister of Finance to take the floor and answer the challenges that have arisen in the course of a long debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e4882	I think it was quite amazing to sit and listen to some of the final posts. Martin Kolberg wonders if you can point out other, more liberal societies that have growth power. It's pretty amazing to ask about this from this pulpit. It is better to ask: is there a society in the world that is more regulated than Norway, which has growth potential at all? I can point to a number of countries with a more liberal — and also more market-based — view of many things, which have a completely different growth force than Norway as it is today. When Giske is talking about Norway without mentioning how special the situation in Norway is, with oil revenues, it is also quite special. We know that Norwegian productivity has developed much weaker than the productivity of our competitors, and we have a cost level that goes straight to the ceiling. The situation in Norway is due exclusively to an incredibly good trend in the exchange rate, as oil has risen in price, and everything we import has fallen in price. There is no development on which we can build a sustainable Norway, as Minister of Finance Sigbjørn Johnsen said quite clearly when he presented the budget here. What you really see in the red-green policy is that the farther away from being an oil well, the less growth power you have. Even I represent Hedmark, and it's the Labour Party exhibition window in Norway. It's been running for two generations without any interference from anyone. Since 2008, the number of persons employed in the private sector has fallen by 4,000, and there is talk of engaging in industrial policy. There is pure discrimination against all that does not have oil in front of it, the red-green government has been driving it. And last, to Trygve Slagsvold Vedum, woodworking: The number of people employed in woodworking has fallen from 8,000 to 3,000 over the course of eight years. Then you stand here and talk about running a business policy. It's a purely business discrimination you ran with there, too. You must start to deal with your own policies. At least I thought of that after hearing the closing posts of red-green politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e4895	I have listened in detail to the 13-hour debate that Stortinget has had on the state budget for 2014. Let me start by saying that I am very pleased that the budget adopted today by the Stortinget is a budget that is well adapted to the economic situation in Norway. It is a budget that opens up growth in the mainland economy next year, keeping employment high and unemployment low. That's good. Then there are several of the representatives who in the final question have now suggested that they have presented challenges through this debate. I have to admit, I haven't really heard so many challenges. I have heard red-green politicians who are a little dissatisfied with the fact that the country has got a new government, but an opposition that is a little confused about what they are really going to criticize the new government for. On the one hand, the government gets criticism that we haven't done enough, because we haven't fulfilled enough of the election vows that we gave through the election campaign. On the other hand, the government gets criticism for the very opposite, that we're doing too much too fast. It tells me that the government has probably created a budget well adapted to the economic situation. I also noticed that the Støre actually from this pulpit believed that the Minister of Finance had made a wise statement about the economic prospects for next year. I fully agree that the Minister of Finance has done so! But what I want to say to the debate on market economy is that there is no other economic theory that has lifted more people out of poverty around the world than the market economy – no one else. That is why there is nothing that can thwart the excellence of the market economy, and therefore I am glad that this government believes in the market economy and intends to follow the fundamental theories of the market economy, precisely because it creates growth, it creates employment, it creates jobs, and it perhaps creates most of all proud individuals who believe in themselves, individuals who can live from their own income, who can take care of their own family, who dare to believe in the future, who dare to create their own jobs, who dare to invest in the future. I'm proud to be part of a government that facilitates it, and it's going to make more of it in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e4906	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e4912	The size is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e4928	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Jonas Gahr Støre on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 2-5, by Terje Breivik, on behalf of Left-wing proposal No. 6, by Rasmus Hansson on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA Proposals Nos. 1 to 5 has been inserted in the settings in s. 162 and 163. Proposal No. 6 is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. There is a vote on proposal No. 6 by the Greens/Greens/EFA Group. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Frame decisions 1State administration6 038 654 0002Family and consumer44 145 102 0003Culture9 761 719 0004External34 516 517 0005Justis25 111 412 0006Inmigration, regional development and housing20 391 346 0007Work and social369 536 084 0008Defence34 829 757 0009Industry4 692 708 00010Fiskerry547 255 00011Agriculture17 337 393 00012Oil and energy-118 317 463 00013Environment15 182 203 00014Constitutional institutions1 867 783 00015Health154 776 875 00016Church, education and research59 638 580 00017Transport and communication49 445 540 00018Rame transfers to the local sector mv.159 137 93 338 00019Constituent expenditure and revenue10 620 00020Financial administration etc.34 311 057 00021Taxons, transfers and payments from debt to 131 3354 000 million
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e5134	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. Two to five from the left. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘Frame decisions No. EnquiryCrons1State Government5 280 009 0002Family and consumer43 887 033 0003Culture9 692 518 0004Foreign policy35 098 486 0005Justis24 659 112 0006Inmigration, regional development and housing15 197 724 0007Work and social367 513 484 0008Research37 344 761 0009Industry3 529 360 00010Fischerry186 345 00011Agriculture16 648 669 00012Oil and energy-119 937 463 00013Environment7 934 765 00014Constitutional institutions1 862 783 00015Health156 377 233 00016Course, education and research60 834 229 00017Transport and communication50 649 653 00018Rame transfers to the local sector mv.159 088 938 00019Constitutional expenditure and income9 830 000 00020Finance administration debt outp.34 591 467 468 00021Treasure and expenditure outflows55 to EUR 3 078 132 Proposal No. 3 sounds: «The government is asked to change the minimum working time reduction in paragraphs 6 to 6 of the day-to-day pay regulation in order to retain the daily allowance rights from 50 pst. until 20 pst.» Proposal No. 4 reads: ‘The government is asked to adapt the rules for rolling leave so that the enterprise, where there is agreement between employees and employers, pays only the employer’s period for the number of posts actually permitted.’ Proposal No. 5 reads: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for a change in the employer’s co-financing of the sick pay scheme in the context of the revised national budget for 2014. A prerequisite for the changes shall be that the overall financial burden on employers does not increase.»
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e5346	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Frame decisions 1State administration5 991 654 0002Family and consumer43 879 402 0003Culture9 699 019 0004External38 244 817 0005Justis24 776 712 0006Inmigration, regional development and housing17 872 046 0007Work and social368 744 584 0008Defence37 567 957 0009Industry4 378 008 00010Fiskerry547 255 00011Agriculture16 805 893 00012Oil and energy-109 663 163 00013Environment5 434 003 00014Constitutional institutions1 852 783 00015Health153 838 275 00016Church, education and research58 387 880 00017Transport and communication48 422 440 00018Rame transfers to the local sector, etc.158 437 338 00019Constituent expenditure and revenue10 750 00020Financial administration, etc.34 062 407 00021Tasssssssions, payments and payments, payments, payments, payments and payments, payments, payments, payments, payments, payments and payments, payments, payments, payments and payments, payments, payments, payments, payments, payments and payments, payments, payments, payments, payments, payments, payments, payments, payments and payments, payments, payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for payments for The President makes it clear that this is not the case. posts in the room earlier today under proposal No. 1 is amended as follows in five framework areas: Frame area 1 shall be NOK 5 966 654 000. Frame area 6 shall be SEK 17 888 046 000. Frame area 7 shall be NOK 369 054 584 000. Frame area 18 shall be SEK 158 446 338 000. Frame area 19 shall be NOK 10 440000000. It is therefore a matter of proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e5801	It is added over VIII, X and XI. The Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e5816	It's going to wrestle over you. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e5830	It is voted over XIII. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e5844	It shall be counted over II to VII, IX and XII.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-26.ana.ud1575e6029	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
