ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e26	The representative, Dagrun Eriksen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e29	I am pleased to promote a proposal by the representatives of Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, Øyvind Hope and signed a valuelift in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e34	The representative, Morten Ørsal Johansen, wants to make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e37	On behalf of the representatives of Siv Jensen, Per Sandberg, Gjermund Hagesetter, Åge Starheim and myself, I am delighted to make suggestions not to allow the use of burka, niqab or other lucky garments in the public room.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e42	The representative, Mr Gjermund Hagesetter, wishes to make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e45	On behalf of the representatives of Morten Ørsal Johansen, Åge Starheim and myself, I am delighted to promote a proposal for a representative on the conversion of the financing of the municipal sector and the need-driven state funding of basic welfare services.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e50	The representative Per Roar Bredvold wishes to make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e53	I have, on behalf of the representatives of Harald T. Nesvik, Torgeir Tåldal, Bård Hoksrud and myself, the pleasure of promoting representative proposals on framework conditions for Norwegian forestry and the woodworking industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e59	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e71	On Monday, the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e78	A number of recent entries have focused on the situation at Norwegian emergency services. Only in 2013 has the Health Authority established three supervisory cases following notification of concerns by employees. It has been concluded that the service in Stavanger is irresponsible, while the other two cases are not yet settled. But this situation is not new. As early as 2008, health surveillance warned against the situation at the country’s emergency reception centre, and their main conclusions included: that patients with unexplained conditions had to wait several hours before being examined by a doctor, that many emergency services did not have an equal perception of the situations in which extra resources were to be allocated, and that concerns were simply expressed as to whether it was professionally sound during busy periods at many of the country’s emergency facilities. The current Minister of Health, Brustad, clearly stated and announced new measures, but nothing has happened. When Minister of Health Gahr Støre was challenged about this, he met these very serious warnings from employees in the sector, even with claims of black paint. It is a well-known technique to accuse a political opposition of blackmailing a situation that does not even agree, but when the Council of State then goes into conflict with the superiors and employees in the sector who warn against a situation, I think it is much more serious. Therefore, I would like the Prime Minister to explain what he thinks is proper staffing at Norwegian emergency reception, and how the government intends to resolve the situation that has now arisen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e89	A good emergency response is an essential and important part of a good health service, and therefore it is important that there is a lot of attention around it, so that we can always ensure that we have as good an emergency response as possible. Therefore, the government has also been concerned about the facts, the Health Authority has done its job by revealing what is missing and weak, and it is constantly working to improve what is being revealed. Just because we ask for fault detection, we also get clarity about what fails, and then we are also able to do something and make sure that it gets better. But at the same time, it is important not to draw a picture of Norwegian emergency preparedness that is unsound or incorrect. It's e.g. so that an important part of the emergency response is that when an emergency occurs and the ambulance arrives, the first thing to do is to assess where the patient is to be transported. Then it's 90 pst. patients are transported to an emergency room where an experienced doctor is present. So the picture that's drawn from the fact that it's very common for you to just meet a gymnast, according to health care companies, is wrong. The second is that we've got a very good specialization, which makes that often when there's very serious situations, you're not being transported to the nearest emergency reception, but to what's best qualified to deal with your acute situation. That's also why we have good numbers when we look at international numbers, when it comes to acute disorders like this. myocardial infarction and stroke. Norway is at the top of survival, among others. Because we have a good emergency response and make sure people get to the right hospitals. Thirdly, we've also started work on going through the entire specialist education and looking at how we're going to decorate it, even when we're going to improve it in terms of emergency medicine.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e100	The Prime Minister began by saying that the government was running a continuous work, asking for these conditions to be revealed, so that something could also be done about it. Then my very simple follow-up question becomes to the Prime Minister: What has the government done since 2008 to improve the actual situation at its emergency reception?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e105	There are several things done. It is first mentioned in all the business meetings with the regional health establishments in spring 2008, on the basis of the supervisory reports submitted by the Health Authority. Entrepreneurship meetings were asked for the regional health establishments to carry out a systematic review of emergency preparedness. It has been reviewed and many improvements have been made, including: In order to strengthen medical competence at emergency receptions, strengthen what is called emergency assessment – which is about assessing where people are going when the seconds count – and getting more regular training and empowerment. So in addition, there's work going on going through the specialist structure, the training of doctors, to see if we're going to do something about it. The sum of this is that where we have international comparable figures, Norway has among the highest probability of survival when acute disorders occur. Brain strokes and heart attacks are among what we have comparable figures for, and there we are significantly better than before and better than other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e112	Follow-up questions will be raised. So far, two follow-up questions have been asked – first the representative Kari Kjønaas Kjos.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e115	The Prime Minister and the Minister of Health draw a completely different picture of the situation at the emergency reception stations than the employee, relatives, patients and a number of others have drawn. The Prime Minister says the emergency services are good. Health enterprises in Health South-East will meet next week, and they will look at development processes to enhance the competence of the first line of emergency reception, with special emphasis on the medical side. We can read that in Health South-East's last newsletter. That means they've taken these reports very seriously, and that's very good. My question to the Prime Minister will then be: Are the emergency receptions good enough, or are they not?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e122	Norwegian emergency reception can be better. That is why we are constantly implementing measures to strengthen them. However, compared to other countries and compared to the previous situation in Norway, the figures we have for Norwegian emergency services are for example. survival when given emergency accommodation, better now than before and better than in other countries where we have comparable figures. That we have some of the world's highest survival rates, for example. for strokes, which is an acute disorder of which people died to a large extent before, is an expression that at least something in Norwegian emergency preparedness works, among others. in the case of specialisation – sending to a hospital with the best opportunity to get good treatment quickly, not necessarily to the nearest hospital, but to a hospital with good competence. A wide range of measures have been implemented. Several operations shall be carried out. One important measure is that we have strengthened the hospital economy. I believe one reason why we have to warn against the commercialisation/privatisation that someone is calling for is that it will weaken the public hospitals, which must be responsible for emergency reception – that is what commercial hospitals will never take. If we give money to the commercial hospitals at the expense of the public, there will be lower emergency reception and preparedness in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e129	Bent Höie – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e132	The Prime Minister is constantly referring to survival rates in terms of myocardial infarction and stroke, etc. But none of these reports deal with patients with such acute disorders. There are patients who have very clear symptoms, who are essentially receiving very good treatment in Norwegian hospitals, because they are moving on quickly. The reports deal with those patients who have diffuse symptoms, who stay on the emergency wards for a long time, because they may first meet a nurse, so a surgeon who has an average of six months of experience, who again summons a doctor in the rear guard, who takes time to wait. It is this type of patient that is exposed to significantly more risk than is appreciated by the Health Authority. So my question to the Prime Minister is, what has happened to improve the quality of the patient group that the reports actually deal with, and not the patients that all agree that getting a good offer in Norwegian hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e138	Well, the first thing you meet is often the ambulance. There is a desire to start treatment, and there is also a starting point for the assessment of where the patient should be. 90 pst. patients are transported to hospitals according to the Ministry of Health and Health, where there are experienced doctors in place. Where there are no experienced doctors in place, which are in the minority of the receptions where the patients arrive, you have a chain, people behind you, who are being mobilized, and who will normally be in place when the patients arrive at the hospital. Significant measures have therefore been implemented, both in the 2008 business meetings and in the 2009 mission documents, including: this with measures in the fields of medical competence, emergency assessment, training and competence has been of what has been carried out and which we continue to strengthen and expand. Where we have comparable figures between countries, this suggests that Norwegian emergency preparedness is good. Norway is among the few countries that now systematically monitor and publish errors and shortcomings – not because we believe Norwegian hospitals are flawless, but because when we get the mistakes on the table, we can also do something with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e145	Line Henriette Hemdal – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e148	For the next 24 hours, many patients who visit the emergency department will get the help they need. They want to meet a health service that extends a long way. But there are also patients who in the next 24 hours unfortunately will not get that experience. The Norwegian Agency for Acute Medicine says that the studies they have conducted show that doctors on duty in Norwegian hospitals have an average of six months of experience. They meet at the emergency wards of doctors and doctors who are being trained. They have a rear guard, but if we base the Danish experience, it is only used backwards in between 6 and 10 pst. of those cases. If you ask about the last 10 percent that the Prime Minister has not spoken about today, the small hospital that has spinal doctors, who have inexperienced doctors. 10 pst. of our emergency recipients have doctors with less than six months of experience?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e155	Norway has chosen to have many emergency facilities and decentralised structures. This means that some acute recipients are small — they have less capacity to deal with complex and severe disorders than the major ones. That's also why you're exposed to a very serious accident, suffering or illness, you're not being transported to the nearest small emergency room. You get transported to the big thing, where there's a lot of capacity, and where you have a much bigger chance of survival. It is the assessment carried out in the ambulance or in the ambulance helicopter. In the case of serious traffic accidents in the East, Ullevål is often transported to Ullevål and drives past many emergency receptions on the road, precisely because Ullevål has the best competence to ensure that people survive. Where there are no experienced medical doctors on bystander, it will be rear guard, which can be called upon and mobilized. They will usually be on guard when the patient arrives, because they are mobilized when the ambulance starts to run. I do not say that everything is good in Norwegian emergency preparedness, but I say that much is good. Then what is missing still needs to be improved.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e164	Then we go to the next main question – from the representative Erna Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e167	The situation in the case of acute recipients gives in particular an interesting insight into the effectiveness and governance of the health care system we have today. Four and a half years ago, we received an emergency response report from the Health Authority, which said that emergency preparedness in Norway is too poor. The Health Minister stood in Stortinget and said she agreed that the report showed that this was serious and that something had to be done about it. You did something about it -- that year. Then we got three new health ministers, who didn't do anything. We have received a new health surveillance report, which shows that the situation is about the same as it was four and a half years ago. I think this is a parallel to the discussion we have, among other things. have had after 22 July the capacity of the public to make improvements and learn from the reports we have received. Health supervision has the responsibility of making sure that health businesses and, of course, political management are aware of the challenges, mistakes and things that need to be improved. But it's the responsibility of political management to ensure continuity in that improvement work. But in four years it was only the first year, under Minister of Health, Brustad, that this was followed up. The next three health ministers have done nothing – until the next week. What does the Prime Minister think about the government's executive role in health care improvements? When the media's light goes out, the interest in following up matters turns off.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e176	Work has been done over several years to improve Norwegian emergency preparedness. I have referred to several of the measures that have been implemented, which have been addressed both in business meetings with regional health companies and in mission documents. It's been over years. It is now in progress, and it will continue in the future. These include: on strengthening medical competence. It is about getting even better assessment of where patients are to be transported in order to increase the likelihood of best treatment as soon as possible, and it is about more training and exercise, which is ongoing, even under this Minister of Health. In addition, the general strengthening of the health business economy, by balancing health businesses and enabling them to make large investments, also strengthens emergency preparedness. If there's something I'm worried about, it's the attempts to commercialise/privatize Norwegian health. One of the problems would then be: to deal with an economic framework, which I believe the Right Party also means, it is believed that commercial hospitals will automatically receive funding, at the expense of the public, which must do some expensive things, which the private and commercial hospitals will never do. These include: about the most complicated suffering, and it's about the chroniclers. It's also about emergency preparedness, which is expensive, demanding, and which commercial hospitals will never operate. So if you think about setting up a funding system, like the one on the right, where you're going to have automatic financing of commercial hospitals, and that public hospitals are going to deal with the framework, it would go beyond hospitals like St. Olav's hospital, Aarhus, Ullevål and others, which are just having the heavy and expensive responsibility for emergency preparedness. So we've strengthened and are going to strengthen emergency preparedness. We're not saying it's flawless, but we're saying that a lot has been done, and that even more needs to be done. But it's going in the very wrong direction to add up to a healthcare system where you give priority to financing commercial hospitals, which will then take the profitable suffering, not take the heavy tasks and not take the emergency.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e185	I understand that this was an unpleasant question, since the Prime Minister chose to talk about anything other than what is his responsibility and the implementation responsibility of this government. It is such that four and a half years ago a report was placed on the table that was followed the first year. There is no trace in the allocation documents or mission documents of health businesses the following years under new health ministers that the serious report, which has been repeated now, will be followed up. It is Government's mission and management document No. 1 vis-à-vis health establishments. This is not the only area. In the field of cancer, the Health Authority issued an alarming report on the level of risk associated with cancer treatment, in 2010, to health care establishments. So it's not reported back to the government, and it's apparently not focused on what you do with it from the government. The National Audit Office has produced a report showing that in the field of rehabilitation, queues are longer, fewer are entitled to rehabilitation treatment, despite the fact that this is a high priority area. Where is the effectiveness of the supervisory reports when they are so clear?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e194	The main objective of whether we have an executive role in health care is whether people get better from coming to Norwegian hospitals. The truth is, they're getting more healthy now than before. The truth is, they get more healthy in Norwegian hospitals than in hospitals in most other countries. Where we have internationally comparable figures, Norway, from around the average in 2005, in terms of cancer, stroke and myocardial infarction survival, is now at the top. There is hardly any other country in the world where you are more likely to survive strokes and heart attacks than in Norway. So while we were on the middle of cancer, we're now at the top. The main objective of the ability to implement is whether we actually ensure that people receive treatment. Then I'm not saying we're happy to be among the best – and in some areas the world's best – I'm saying we're going to be even better. But to hear that we're not doing anything is definitely wrong. So it's not to talk about anything else to point out that the Right proposes a system to fund hospitals that will undermine the public hospitals. They relate to the same economic framework, but they want to create a system in which commercial hospitals will automatically spend money at the expense of the public. It's going to have a bad emergency response.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e203	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first by the representative Bent Höie.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e206	I understand that it is unpleasant for the Prime Minister to discuss what most patients in Norway — regardless of system — are going to be treated in, namely public hospitals. The Prime Minister said in reply to the representative Jensen that reports are good, because ‘we are also able to do something and make it better’. But it's just the last thing that's our question, because this case shows that what the Prime Minister and his government are unable to do is do something – and do something better. In response to the Stortinget, in a separate hearing, the then Health Minister Brustad said in 2008 that this Health Inspectorate report was very serious, and that this will be sorted out as quickly as possible – as quickly as possible, five years ago! In a comment on this question, the superiors Bjørnsen and Uleberg write in The Norwegian Medical Association: ‘The structure and distribution of responsibilities in Norwegian emergency reception facilities is currently the same as in 2007.’ What has happened since 2007?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e223	I have mentioned several things that have happened since 2007, including: that we have addressed this with all regional health businesses, that they have reviewed their practices and improved their practices. I have also mentioned that we are in the middle of a work to undergo specialist training. So that's what happened under this state council. A separate working group has been set up, and they will come forward with their assessment very soon. For example, if you want to do something about it, you want to do something about it. look at how this can be improved in terms of medical needs, specialist training, emergency preparedness. Things have been implemented, and there are also measures in preparation that will soon be addressed. So it's not right to say that something just happened in 2008 – something has happened since 2008 as well. The second is that the general strengthening of hospitals is also a contribution to strengthening emergency preparedness, plus that we have seen that in many areas where we can measure results of emergency preparedness, Norway has progressed and gets good results.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e230	Siv Jensen - to the next follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e233	Much of this debate is about what kind of doctors are being made available to patients at emergency receptions – not if they are being transported to a large or a small emergency reception. It just shows the oversight cases that are now open. Both at Aarhus and in Stavanger, where it can't exactly be said that there are small emergency receptions, supervision has been opened because you haven't done your job properly, and because you lack superior access when the emergency patients come in. In addition, the Minister of Health has stated correctly that he does not believe it is realistic to have a superior position in all emergency hospitals. That's clear speech. However, it also tells patients and employees at the country’s emergency department that qualified and competent personnel cannot be expected to be present at an emergency reception because the government will not give priority to it. Does the Prime Minister agree that there is a proper way of manning emergency receptions?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e240	I think I've been up to it several times: it's like an emergency response chain starts in the ambulance. The mobilization of necessary personnel is also started, and the patient’s place of transport is decided. 90 pst. by the acute recipients at reception where experienced doctors are present. Where there are no experienced doctors present, there are rear guards – and it is possible to mobilize them – and normally they will be in place when the patient arrives. The opening up of supervision is an expression that the system really works. Even in large and well-functioning emergency facilities, which have consistently good results, errors may occur. Then it is important that we identify the defects. Norway has more transparency — more error recording — than almost any other country in terms of health shortages, and it is precisely the faults that make us constantly improve. We're in the middle of specialist structure. Here the Health Directorate will present its recommendations before the summer, and then we will consider those proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e249	Line Henriette Hemdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e252	We have heard that several things have happened – the Prime Minister has framed it for the past half an hour – and that we have received a general reinforcement of the hospital service. But the three oversight cases that we have now in 2013, all of which are notified by nurses, show the same story: there's a lot of patients in progress, the emergency rooms are full, and corridors are then filled, that there's a long waiting time in the receptions, and that it takes a long time before patients are sent from the emergency room and on to the department. This will be revealed in 2013. Yes, this has been revealed, and we can learn, but my question is – before we do this learning: Does the Prime Minister think it is safe to be a patient at the country's emergency reception in April 2013?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e257	It is safer to be a patient in Norwegian hospitals and in Norwegian emergency services than in most other countries, and that is, according to the figures we have, safer now than in the past. That doesn't mean 100 pst. the assurance that there will never be any errors. I don't think there's a single health care system, a single term in any health care system anywhere in the world, where you could say it's 100 pst. it is certain that there is no mistake. That's also why it's so important that we have transparency about errors, and we're not trying to hide mistakes. It is good that health care employees report from, and that we get supervision cases, so that we can constantly improve one of the world's best health services. That's exactly what's our challenge: although we get a lot, and very much is very good, it's obvious that there's room for improvement all the time. Once we've asked the Health Directorate to go through, for example. The specialist structure, and that they come with their report before the summer, is part of the work that has been going on for several years, and that keeps us getting a better health care, even if it's not flawless.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e264	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e267	It's been interesting to follow this emergency debate, but I'm not going to continue with it. Someone might think that I should now ask about how the food departments work around the country – at least I can confirm that they work pretty well, from the Christian People's Party at least. It is another theme that also calls for the attention of many, and it is the working conditions of the employees of the airlines. Yesterday we saw a report related to Ryanair. There, jobs were presented, which I believe many people here and out in the country are stunned by the fact that they can be done on Norwegian soil. The employee organisation Parat has addressed the long-term situation of its employees in Ryanair and Ryanair-related issues. Vice-Chairman Vegard Einan in Parat says that Parat has regularly addressed these questions with the Norwegian authorities since 2010. According to Einan, disappointing little has happened: "Ryanair has got some kind of embassy status out there on Rygge. Labour supervision is not carried out, tax is not required. They get to do slave contracts without anyone caring." The Minister of Labour was unable to comment on this yesterday. She was at a conference on workers' rights. The better it is that we have the Prime Minister here. Very familiar he has been informed of precisely these conditions early last autumn. My question is, what is the reason for the government's inaction in these questions?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e285	All workers in Norway must have good pay and working conditions. The Working Environment Act covers those who work in our country, and it is up to the authorities to contribute to ensuring compliance with the regulations and legislation. That's why we've wanted to welcome a lot of foreign workers to Norway. It's good in many industries and industries, including in the aviation industry. At the same time, there is reason why this government has been very concerned about implementing comprehensive measures against social dumping: preventing the arrival of foreigners and jobs in Norway, undermining Norwegian pay and working conditions. We have implemented two comprehensive action plans on transparency, solidarity, enhanced labour supervision and many other measures, and strengthened the Working Environment Act, and all of which have contributed to significantly limiting the level of social dumping in Norway compared to what we had had without all of these measures. However, gaps and new creative ways of trying to avoid Norwegian legislation are still being identified. Among other things, we do. Consider examples of — at least claims have been made — in aviation. That's why we've taken the enquiries we've received from Parat, LO and others, in the greatest seriousness. That is also why, among other things, In the context of the discussion about Norwegian some time ago, we announced that we would not do what was proposed, namely to reduce a public sample, because we thought it would take too long. But we started an investigation that the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Transport are now working on, just to look at how we can improve and strengthen the legislation on workers' rights in aviation. It is a bit complicated because there is a discussion about the membership, regulation and free movement of labour, but our desire is to have rules that ensure clean working conditions for aviation employees working in Norway, too, is quite obvious. That's why we've started that work. We have had dialogue with the organisations about that, and I also want to continue to have dialogue with the organisations on how best to ensure it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e296	It's a little surprising to hear that there's been dialogue. After the information we have, the letter that was sent well over six months ago was not even answered by the Prime Minister. It is bad that it is claimed that there is special activity in this area. But at least I expect now that those who have raised these issues will get a concrete answer from the Prime Minister. It is also the case that the Norwegian State has invested money in Ryanair. Another investment company, Storebrand, has just withdrawn its investments in Ryanair. I quote why: ‘We have ruled out the worst because they run the business we can’t afford. In other words, they have not understood what it means to manage the company in a sustainable way." Norway has invested more than 600 million through the Pension Fund. The Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article Isn't it time to assess that investment?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e309	The letter in question was answered by my office on 24 September last year. In the answer it was shown that it is the Ministry of Transport that will handle this matter. The Ministry of Transport has stressed in several meetings and also in the public that they are in the process of doing so. That is also why this investigation has been initiated, because it is the Air Safety Authority that is responsible for following up the Working Environment Act in aviation. There have been meetings and contacts, but I want to make sure that they will also have new meetings and new contacts with both Parat and other organisations, including. from LO, who has addressed these themes. We have implemented two action plans against social dumping, we have now notified the third, and we have announced our own work related to aviation, so action has been implemented, and further action will be implemented in this area, too, in close dialogue with employee organisations. As far as investment is concerned, I think it's right that we follow the form that Stortinget has taken, that is, to wait for the Ethics Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e318	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first by the representative Dagrun Eriksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e321	In the first answer, the Prime Minister said that new and creative things are constantly emerging in this topic. But these stories we've got about Ryanair are nothing new. These are stories we've heard of for a long time, for years. My first question concerns the following: When companies that have a reputation for having an employee's unpaid employment relationship establish themselves in Norway, how does the government check this, how do you have control, and how do you supervise such types of companies? Then I also want to give the Prime Minister the opportunity to respond a little more fully to whether he sees it as at least problematic that Norway with the State pension fund abroad invests 600 million. kr in this company, which so poorly safeguards the rights of workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e330	First to the first question, how do we supervise? The employment environment law applies. There are strict requirements for the working environment and tidy working conditions in Norway. This applies to everyone, so there is no question about it, but it is the enforcement of what is important. It is the Air Safety Authority that supervises — in addition to the supervision normally exercised by the Labour Inspectorate — and identifies matters. We've strengthened the oversight functions. Then, of course, the trade unions and the employees also report, and then there will be cases. Sometimes it can also end up in the legal system. As far as I can see, it's about here that there can be legal proceedings. Then it is the court that may have to decide. Norwegian laws are to be observed, and it is considered that they are not followed, and the courts have jurisdictions to ensure that they are enforced. As Prime Minister, I do not think anything specific about the individual cases, because it is important that we deal with them properly in terms of supervision and possible legal proceedings. But in general: we have strict legislation – we have to enforce it – and we have strengthened enforcement.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e339	Harald T. Nesvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e342	The State has a tradition of investing in airlines in that country, whether through the State pension fund abroad and Ryanair or through its direct involvement in SAS, where it owns 14.3 pst. It is clear that there is room for competition in this respect too. This matter that we have been exposed to in the media is primarily related to the legislation on bases: Who is going to be taxed for? Who is responsible for the law around it? Among other things, we saw: one from the Directorate of Taxation yesterday, which indicated that it is on the Norwegian side that you are responsible. But the question is, what happens if you move these people between different types of bases – where is one then liable for tax? It is important in relation to aviation that we have legislation, so that we have equal competition between the actors. My question to the Prime Minister is this: does the Prime Minister feel that we have a good enough code to clarify these special situations around bases?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e351	The reason why the government has announced that we are now going through the legislation, has announced a separate investigation – and has done so, among other things. on the basis of enquiries from several employee organisations – is it precisely that we are not sure whether the legislation is good enough today, otherwise we would not have notified an investigation. The point is that everyone who works in Norway should have good pay and working conditions and that the Working Environment Act applies to all work done in Norway. So borderline cases occur, for example. related to airlines that have non-resident employees — how many days they live in Norway, etc. Then you have to go through the legislation, first to see if it is being enforced and practiced well enough. Among other things, we do. Air traffic control to do, and the courts in the ultimate instance. Then we'll have to see if the code is good enough. Both of us do precisely because we are concerned that in Norway there should be neat and good working conditions, not social dumping.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e358	Jan Tore Sanner – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e361	What the last Prime Minister says, we obviously agree on. People living and working from and in Norway must have good and decent pay and working conditions. But the core issues are linked to the follow-up and implementation of the government, because these issues that have been in the media in the last few days are not of new date. The representative of the Seven showed in his statement that this was revealed in 2010. In the NRK earlier today it was informed that this came out for approx. Two years ago. Now that changes have been made to prevent social dumping, and we have a good code of pay and working conditions, when will the Prime Minister ensure that this is done? How long is it to be investigated? How long will it take to ensure that Ryanair employees also have good pay and working conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e366	Firstly, the Working Environment Act is in place, and we have both a Labour Inspectorate and an Air Safety Authority to ensure that it is enforced, to oversee it. Secondly, it is the courts and the prosecution authority that are supposed to ensure that you do not break laws. To the extent that we're talking about crimes here, we have the legal system to deal with it. In these cases, legal proceedings have been notified, as far as I know. But then there's another question -- whether we need additional rules. We have carried out two rounds of regulatory tightening, legislative improvements, on social dumping – through Action Package 1 and Action Package 2. We have notified a third. In the past, we have announced a separate review and, if necessary, a strengthening of the aviation legislation, which creates some complicated border cases in terms of where people live, where people are taxed and where they have social security rights. That's because we don't want the kind of relationships that we've seen in several places, which is why we're implementing significant measures against social dumping.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e373	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e377	We've previously heard from the Prime Minister that pool should be filled up. We have seen in the government party programmes that, for example: is for 11 months of study support, while when you sit down and negotiate, you are able to negotiate all of your programme formulations. For this government, the field of knowledge has been characterised by a breach of promises and programmes that are of little value. In January, the Prime Minister and the Labour Party said that they should invest in better teachers – in more further education and training – and in the red tape of school everyday life. This is great. Everything has been proposed by the Left in this Chamber – voted down by the government parties and has received a lot of support in the opposition. The Labour Party has consistently voted down all these proposals when they have been promoted in recent years. The Prime Minister has been in charge of the government since 2005. You've seen that you haven't managed to keep past promises, especially in the field of knowledge. My question is, can we believe it when you say that you have to have more good teachers, when the government parties have prioritised completely different things in the school field over the last eight years – and voted down all the proposals from the Left in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e386	We have been committed to strengthening teacher training. More money has been allocated. The number of places for continuing training of teachers has increased. We have completed a conversion of the entire teacher training. Fortunately, we have now seen a growing search for teacher training, which means that, in reality, we can also make greater demands as to who is involved in teacher training. This, of course, does not mean that we should not continue to improve teacher training. We see, for example: That it's too much non-response. I believe that this is a serious problem in teacher training too. But at least it is an advantage for more applicants and for us to change and strengthen teacher training. A measure of whether we're going in the right direction in Norwegian school is what we have in international numbers. While we were low on the international reading, writing, billing and natural sciences rankings up to 2007, we have made significant progress on the PISA, TIMSS and PIRLS surveys that have been taking place since 2007, in some areas. This does not mean that we have reached levels of satisfaction in all areas, but it means that there has been considerable progress in some areas. For example, Norwegian teenagers are the best in math skills in the Nordic region. It's not good enough either, but it's an expression that things are going in the right direction in Norwegian school. So we're going to give recognition to all the school's people – Norwegian teachers, school leaders – who have done this formidable job in Norwegian school in recent years, which has meant that we're now on the right track and, in some areas, are moving from low and falling on international scores of results in school. Again: Of course, we don't think we're in the right direction, but we believe that progress is moving in the right direction. It is good to see the efforts of Norwegian teachers, which means that we now get significantly better results in Norwegian school than we did in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e397	This reveals a little lack of recognition of what is the biggest challenge in school: we lack so many teachers. We will lack up to 11,000 teachers in 2020 because we will not get any more through the education system. We see that the government has launched an advertising campaign to get more people to apply for teacher training. 'Do you have it in you?' it certainly says, while the challenge I think the school has is, Can you? I believe that the problem with government policy is that they have not taken over the big problem we have with recruiting more teachers. Swallow if we have more applicants, there's actually a third that ends. Then I will return to another promise. The government has said that it should have a special level of competence for the 9 000 unskilled people working in Norwegian school. This has been proposed by the Left in the past – and the Labour Party voted against. So my question is, if we propose this again, in connection with the RNB, will the Workers' Party support the proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e404	First of all, by recruiting teachers, we're glad that we're getting a huge increase here. From 2008 to 2012, there has been an increase in the number of qualified applicants of 57 pst, while the overall increase in higher education has been of only 34 pst. This means that there has been a sharp increase in total to higher education, and that the search for teacher training has been almost twice as high — at least significantly higher than the overall increase. So there's been a good increase there. That's good. And we've got better results, which are due not least to the good efforts of the teachers. It is a challenge that we have a comprehensive approach to proposals. We are promoting our proposals in state budgets. Many opposition parties promote very many proposals – throughout the ageing period and almost in all debates. We have a good and tidy treatment of them. This means that we do not necessarily vote in favour of all the proposals that come under document 8. We deal with them in our budgets and in our big messages and follow up on the proposals we are in favour of – and do not follow up on the proposals we are against.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e411	Three follow-up questions are raised – first, Tord Lien.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e414	In VG 4 April 2011, the current representative of the big business Hadia Tajik writes a reader’s letter entitled ‘What’s the best for small Petter Smart?’. She writes about the proposal of the Progress Party on dedicated real-time schools in the context of higher education that ‘segregated elite offers are not particularly effective’, that in many cases they operate ‘against their purpose’, that ‘level differentiation has virtually no effect’, and that this is ‘linked to the risk of misposition and reinforcement of social differences’. The Workers' Party's programme proposal states that it is an objective to ensure that ‘each State has at least one secondary school specialising in high-level real-life subjects’. Does the Prime Minister think that it is best for little Petter Smart to listen to the Workers' Party's Programme Committee or to Hadia Tajik, who calls the Progress Party's proposal – and now the proposal of the Workers' Party's Programme Committee – for 'high-reideological elite experiments'?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e423	Hadia Tajik sits in the program committee of the Workers' Party. I am sure that she agrees with the programme committee in the proposal she herself has proposed. I can't really understand that now we're going to create bigger problems or greater disagreement than it is. I believe that public schools, both primary and secondary, can successfully combine two things: having adapted training both for those who are struggling, and for the very best, who are going to have special challenges – they should. But we're afraid of what involves a more permanent leveling, because it can create differences, inequalities in school, which we're not interested in. I believe that we have good experience in our ability to do so. I believe that the programme committee in the Labour Party has made some interesting proposals. The National Assembly of the Workers' Party will deal with it, and then we will see what the Workers' Party finally means.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e432	Elisabeth Aspaker – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e435	A few years ago, the Prime Minister gave a New Year speech saying, ‘Knowledge trumps everything.’ But that’s not the impression left behind in the years to come — that the government has prioritised knowledge first. The voters have obviously noticed that the Prime Minister and the Labour Party say one thing – like against and in connection with elections – but do something else. People's confidence in the Labour Party's school policy is now far, far behind the trust in the Right. Does the Prime Minister agree with the head of the Education Committee, Marianne Aasen of the Workers' Party, who explains the failure to trust the Workers' Party in school matters that it is difficult to profile matters when you do not have the Council of State itself? Does the Prime Minister and the Workers' Party regret that they have been left to the SV to control school policy for eight years while he has been leading this government?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e442	I believe that one of the most important goals of success in school policy is the results in school, and so there is considerable progress. There's nothing the government says, it's something documented in the international studies, which is the best goal we have to compare results and developments over time. In 2001, for example, it was 12 pst. by Norwegian students at the fourth stage who were reading, they were below what is called the critical level. Now it's 5 pst. We're not saying 5 pst. It's excellent, but we're saying that 5 pst. is less than half of 12, and a significant improvement. We've made progress in mathematics and science. We've been the country with the greatest success in math, so we've been turning down Norwegian school for many years. This has happened because teachers and students have made a formidable effort, but this has been possible, among other things. Because there have been thousands of new annual works, because there have been billions of extra money for municipalities and counties, who own the schools, because we have strengthened the continuing training of teachers, and because we have increased the number of hours. It gives results, and that's the most important goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e447	Dagrun Eriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e451	I think there were several people who were stunned when the Workers' Party announced that they would now go to the elections on the new school policy. When you have been in government for eight years, you have had every reason to show what school policy is. It's several hours, it's on the way to full-time school, even though scientists say that if there's an increase in learning you want, this is the wrong resource usage. Many of the good results referred to by the Prime Minister are also the results of the Bondevik Government, which gave a greater focus on theoretical learning. My question to the Prime Minister is: if you now think that you have to work for the new school policy, what has the existing school policy led for eight years, you don't think you're satisfied with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e458	It is true that there was a very broad consensus that we needed a knowledge leap in Norwegian school. It started from the basic point of view that we had a rise in teacher pay around 2000–2001 and, secondly, that we set up the Quality Committee with the declared aim of proposing how we could increase the level of knowledge in Norwegian school. It led to the promise of knowledge, which was presented by the government of Bondevik, and which reached almost unanimous agreement here in Stortinget. The implementation of the promise of knowledge has taken place during this government and has now resulted in significantly better results in Norwegian school, in almost all subjects at the steps being measured. Sometimes there's a lot of progress, sometimes less progress, but at least the arrows are going in the right direction. It's the most important thing. But it's not that we can't do things even better. For example, we strongly believe that teacher training can continue to be improved, that continuing training of teachers needs to be even better, and that early efforts are very important in the case of those students who are struggling — for many students are left hanging.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e463	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e466	After a harvest of considerable chaos in the government as to what the position of the EEA Agreement should be, it became calmer around Christmastime, but now we are back in business. Both the SV and the Central Party have now had national meetings. At its national meeting, the SV decided to replace today’s EEA Agreement with ‘a less extensive trade and cooperation agreement with the EU’, and the Senter Party followed up on its intention to withdraw Norway from Schengen immediately and in the long term from the EEA through a referendum. Liv Signe Navarsete said to VG yesterday that ‘the decision will definitely be a matter for new government negotiations’. The Government and Stoltenberg have previously underlined that the EEA Agreement and the other agreements of Norway with the EU are a basic plan of government. The question is very simple: will the Prime Minister negotiate the EEA Agreement and the Schengen Agreement with the SV and the Central Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e471	The answer to that question is no, and it is because the parties themselves have made it clear that there is nothing to negotiate. Of course, they have every right to make the decisions they think are right for Norway, but at the same time we agreed three parties before the 2005 elections that we had to settle some of the heaviest and most difficult disputes between us before the elections. We did so before the 2005 elections, given that we were not to apply for EU membership, that we were still to stand by our NATO membership, and that we were to build on the EEA Agreement and the cooperation we have established with the EU through it, among other things. Schengen Agreements. Therefore, Liv Signe Navarsette and the Center Party have also made it quite clear that this should not stand in the way of any government cooperation with the Workers' Party. Although the Central Party and SV have always been against the EEA and adopt it at each national meeting, I feel that they acknowledge that they are going to be in government with us, it is not a matter of cancelling or undermining the cooperation we have with the EU through the EEA and those agreements – among other things. Schengen – which connects us to the EU, just as we recognise that if we are going to be in government with those parties, it is not relevant to apply for EU membership. The advantage of this government is that we resolved these questions before the 2005, 2009 elections and now before 2013. The problem with those who try to make an alternative to us is that where they have major and fundamental disagreements, for example. in the case of accountability in economic policy, in the case of the core wall of securing interest rates, exchange rates and the competitive sector, the Right Party and the Progress Party are not able to clarify whether the action rule applies or not. We have clarified these major issues of disagreement before the elections – before three elections. You have now spent two periods in opposition and are still not in the vicinity of clarifying the greatest disagreement between the batches you want to cooperate with.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e478	Now the Prime Minister is participating in his own favorite exercise: talking about something quite different from what the question concerns. I asked about the EEA Agreement and the Schengen Agreement, and the Prime Minister will be aware that there is at least one issue on which all parties agree on the non-socialist side, that is exactly the two questions. There'll be peace and consensus, as opposed to what the government is now doing. I think it is interesting that when Liv Signe Navarsete yesterday went out to the VG and said, ‘the decision is definitely a matter for new government negotiations’, the Prime Minister stands today and dismisses the head of the Central Party. I think it is reassuring, on behalf of both the Right and the other parties here in the Chamber, who are in favour of the Schengen Agreement and of the EEA Agreement, but it is clear that it must be a bit funny for the leader of the Central Party to be deflected by the Prime Minister when she says that this is going to be part of the government negotiations. The Prime Minister says it won't. That's right very happy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e485	I refer to what the Center Party and Liv Signe Navarsete themselves have stressed, that this should not stand in the way of government cooperation with the Workers' Party. It's the same way that when SV decides they're against NATO, I respect that they mean it, but SV fully understands that you're in government with the Workers' Party, we're in NATO. We understand that if we are in government with no parties, then we do not seek EU membership, just as the Right must understand that if they are to sit in government with no parties, they may have to experience the same thing for themselves. The EEA Agreement, with the agreements it covers, is annexed to a Government of the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e490	Three questions have been asked and given rise to follow-up – first Ivar Kristiansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e493	It's quite interesting to look at the Prime Minister's fabulous abilities as a balance artist – there's 20 in style, there's no doubt. It is therefore necessary to reconcile cross-cutting considerations which cannot be reconciled, to defend their partners in government, while at the same time defending the key international agreements we have with Europe, namely the EEA Agreement and the Schengen Agreement. At the same time, however, it is the very small opening for that, yes, it is to be negotiated. The two main national meetings of the SV and the Central Party and the two main electoral campaigns of these two parties are therefore to be negotiated. Is the Prime Minister willing to cancel the two main issues of the SV and the Senter Party, with which they will conduct their whole and full election campaign?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e498	I believe that being a balance artist is an – what to say – an impressive exercise! It's an important exercise, and it's a prerequisite to make sure that a government can work over time. At the same time, it is part of the policy. I think everyone has to realize that the nature of politics, everyday life, is precisely finding good solutions, good compromises and a good balance. In these issues, I think we have found a good balance between three parties, which are very much in agreement: community, justice, strong public sector and fair distribution of income, but which have historically disagreed, among other things. on NATO, the EU and the EEA. That's why we found a balance – we found a solution to this before the 2005 elections – actually long before the elections, because it was a prerequisite for us to start negotiating other things at all that these questions were settled. Both the SV and the Central Party have now confirmed that the agreement remains valid. It does not prevent them from continuing to adopt what they want – just as I expect the Right will decide that they are for the EU without them seeking EU membership for that reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e505	Siv Jensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e509	First, let me assure the Prime Minister that a new government on the non-social side will conduct a responsible economic policy, so he does not have to lie sleepless for that reason. I do not want to ask him more about the internal co-operation challenges of the red-green government, but actually ask an open question related to existing agreements to which Norway has joined. There are many people and environments in our country and in other countries who express concern and participate in a debate on existing agreements. Therefore, do I want to ask the Prime Minister if he believes that there is a room for action within existing agreements that allows Norway in this situation to make adjustments, changes, in line with national interests?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e516	First of all, with responsible economic policy. I hear...
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e521	That was not a question, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e526	No, but I can comment on it when the representative took it up anyway. It made me very happy! The problem is that they deeply disagree on what is responsible economic policy. It does not just mean ‘responsible economic policy’. The Progress Party represents a completely different economic policy than the Right, and they are not in a position to agree on what is a common economic policy. It creates an uncertainty that Norway does not deserve. In terms of space for action within international agreements, it varies greatly. In some areas, there is room for action, and then we use that space for action when we think it serves Norwegian national interests. We've done it, for example. in the case of ownership of the power resources, in the case of district and employer charges in the districts. But in other areas, we have much less room for action. It is not possible to answer clearly yes or no to this question, because there are many agreements with larger or smaller spaces of action. We use it where it's based, and where we think it's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e535	Hans Olav Syversen – to today's last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e538	The Prime Minister said that balancing art is an important exercise. Someone might think that cracking staur is also an important exercise. It has been tried, but with slightly different luck. What the Prime Minister really does is veto the negotiating issues that both the Central Party and SV might come up with after a new election. That's interesting, because this has also reduced a national opinion in the two parties to become a sort of consultation opinion from a pupil board or something like that. My question is: does the Prime Minister see anything different in the EEA Agreement today than he did in 2005?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e547	No, basically I look at the EEA Agreement in the same way today as in 2005. It is an agreement that is constantly evolving and that has advantages and disadvantages that all major international agreements necessarily have to have. But I think it's an agreement that serves Norway well. The government has recently provided a big message, where we also explain it. We have also commissioned a large study, which has been published, with a comprehensive review of the strengths and weaknesses of the EEA Agreement. To this end, veto: that's not what it's about. What's going on is that we're three parties with great respect for each other, who agree on very much and cooperate well on it. And then we've historically disagreed on some things. Back in 2002–2003, therefore, long before the 2005 elections, we were concerned that the major issues of disagreement, which have prevented cooperation in the past, should be resolved. It was that the Workers' Party was not going for a policy of applying for EU membership, that the SV and the Centre should accept the cooperation we have established through the EEA Agreement, and that SV should accept that NATO membership was at stake. It's an expression of mutual respect for solving a problem that we've solved in a good way for eight years.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e556	So this is the time for the oral questioning process, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e568	There are currently no changes to the questionnaire.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e575	My question to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs is: ‘Inhabitants in the municipality of Rygge have collected enough signatures to request a referendum on the introduction of tolls. 701 inhabitants have signed the contract, and it meets the requirement of the municipal law § 39a in order to be able to claim treatment. The proposal was rejected by the Municipal Council on 21 March. The question is not about tolls, but is a fundamental question about referendums. Does the Council of State consider it satisfactory that a majority of the local government only rejects the proposal, whatever the citizens may think?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e589	According to Kommunelova § 39a, the inhabitants can make suggestions that relate to the activities of the municipality. The local authority must decide on the submission if at least 2 pst. by the inhabitants or 300 of them have signed. The right of initiative is an important democratic right. The system allows the inhabitants to get things they are interested in, handled by the local government. The right of initiative can therefore serve as a channel for citizens to influence between options. I encourage all municipal politicians to manage initiatives from the citizens well and thoroughly. Although citizens have the right to have their initiative managed by the local authority, it cannot be that those who are behind the initiative have a right to a specific outcome. In a representative democracy on which our system is based, it must be the municipal government that takes a final stand on the issue. And as I understand this case, a community initiative has been launched asking for a referendum. The local government has agreed that they do not want a referendum. Of course, the local government is free to do so. As a local and regional minister, I don't want to have any idea whether the local government should have taken another decision. This is simply also part of local democracy, that local politicians should be able to make decisions without central authorities coming to the test.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e600	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am very pleased that the Council of State is concerned that the right of initiative is important, and the possibility for citizens to actually enter into dialogue with the local government and could influence and raise issues. But does not the Council of State agree that often when such an initiative comes, it is because one disagrees with the majority of a local government? And don't the Council of States agree that it looks reasonable and very good that you have this opportunity, but in reality it will always be rejected because the ones you're trying to convince have made up a meaning in advance? Does not the Council of State also see that the right of initiative and the possibility to engage in dialogue with the local government will really be taken into account to a small extent?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e607	I'm not in agreement with that theme entry. In this case, the local government did not agree, but a matter was submitted. One of them also had a discussion, and one of them likes to have more sides. It is the City Council, as the top body of a municipality, that is responsible for weighing the various concerns towards each other, for and against. It applies to matters such as this one with demands for public access, and it also applies to other issues that can be addressed. There could be cases of property taxes, it could be about the sale of power shafts, and it could be about the construction of cultural houses. It could actually be any kind of thing you can take up. I mean, the system works. In this case, too, the citizens have had to put matters on the agenda. And the fact that I'm here to answer questions in Stortinget is probably also a example that this system actually works. It's just that the inhabitants are activated, and they're involved in decision-making. They've probably not been able to understand this, but maybe they'll get the next time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e614	Yes, I really hope that some local government, even if you disagree, will soon let people decide. This is the closest thing you really get to democracy, that people get to decide through a referendum. So I think it's good that the Council of State sees that there are issues related to this question. But I would like to know if the Council of State would like to see if there are any possibilities to strengthen this even better. Maybe you have to have more people behind to be able to push a little bit more towards the local government. We see in other countries where there are a lot of referendums, for example. in Switzerland, that the possibility is something chosen and those who vote, at least appreciate it very much. We have been there, among others. with the Transport Committee and people who think it is a very good idea to get more of the kind of direct democracy, where voters are actually allowed to decide directly through referendums in important individual cases. But of course, I see the dilemma that there can be a lot of people gradually. There are some challenges to that too.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e619	I have a great deal of sympathy for those who see more referendums and more direct democracy, but there is then a more overarching debate that will have to take place in this Chamber. For in Norway we have representative democracy, and in the municipality it is the municipal government that is the top body. I do not see that neither I nor any other minister, but that the Stortinget has put other leadership in how we build the democratic system, should undermine the representative democracy we have. But what's possible through § 39a, I'll look at as an extension and a supplement to the inhabitants' ability to put matters that they're busy with, on the agenda. I'm absolutely sure that this case too has had a wide coverage in the media. You get a debate, you get a change of words, which in itself is valuable, and you finally get a decision on the local government that one then has to follow.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e628	I allow myself to ask the Minister of Health the following questions. The question concerns the understanding of the Ministry of Health and Welfare's so-called early-stage counsellor for large hospital projects: ‘I refer to written question No. 967 on the planning of a new hospital in the North Moravia and Romesdal. The question about empty choices may occur after the idea phase, was not answered. In the interests of the population and the hospital staff, it is important to clarify the hospital structure in the North-Møre and Romesdal. I therefore allow myself to ask the question again. Can the Council of State confirm that the site selection can take place after the completion of the municipal planning and idea phase?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e637	I came to understand that the representative Dahl thought the question had not been answered satisfactorily – in a very clear order at NRK Møre and Romsdal. That is why I am happy to be able to answer him again and hope we come a little further today. At the business meeting in June 2011, Health More and Romesdal were assigned to develop a comprehensive plan for the development of hospitals in the region and a development plan for the building mass. That was step one. This mission has so far been solved by Health More and Romesdal through a comprehensive evidence base and good processes that have ensured the good involvement of all stakeholders, not least the citizens of the county. This work is to be praised by Health Mora and Romesdal. It is important that the further process and decisions to be taken follow this path through good processes. The decision on land selection may be made when Health More and Romesdal consider that the basis for decision is good enough. If the health care provider considers that the basis for decision on land selection is sufficient after the municipal plan work and the idea phase have been completed, then the land selection may take place. I have noticed that the Board of Health Moors and Romsdal want clarification of geographical location as quickly as possible, and it seems that it can take place during 2014. I understand that it is then a decision that can be made in the so-called idea phase or the end of it. Construction measures must be planned in other regions within the overall professional and economic framework of the region, and the Government will propose to the Stortinget that, when a good and sustainable project is in place, the State should normally make up its share by means of a loan. As Minister of Health, I have a responsibility to follow this closely. I interpret that responsibility so that if the processes are sound, the decisions well anchored and well implemented, they stand very strongly on the fact that they are anchored in the health region and locally in what is Health Møre and Romesdal. What I noticed when a decision was made on a hospital was such a solid process that I had nothing to postpone and believe is strong. I have good faith that in the future you will also be able to make a decision on location in the same inclusive and thorough way, and I hope that I can also conclude that it has happened in a way that is local.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e650	Thank you, I am pleased that we then seem to be able to get a clarification on how we should understand this guide. The supervisor was revised in December 2011, and it has been obvious – at least for the undersigned – that both Health Moor and Romesdal and Health Mid-Norway have been uncertain whether such a decision could take place after the idea phase, or whether one had to wait until the end of the concept phase. With regard to the recognition that we have a common hospital for the North Sea and Romesdal, I would just like to remind the Council of State that this happened on the basis of his predecessors stopping the planning of a new hospital in Molde in 2010 – after actually completed the concept phase. So it's important that we now get a clarification on the hospital structure in the interests of the entire hospital environment in Kristiansund and in Molde, and I'm glad that it seems that we can get a clarification on it during 2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e657	I think I can join what Dahl here says, that I'm happy that this process is going on. I don't have the impression that Health Mid-Norway and Health Moor and Romesdal are now uncertain as to how that guide is to be understood. It is the Health Directorate that manages the supervisor, but we will of course be available to answer questions that need to be around interpretations of it. What I now see is that the year 2014 seems to be what is being highlighted for the decision on the land selection. It is eight months until 2014, but the year lasts for twelve months, so we have some months lying there, and I can assure the representative Dahl that I am following this closely. I am sure that the process we now have is going to ensure the population of this region a very good health offer, and before this decade is over, we might get a process of building a hospital that will be a modern, European hospital, of which the part of the country and the country can be proud.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e664	Thank you, I'm glad the Council of State believes we're going to have a good process now. I also want in my way to help us get such a tidy process. I also notice that the Council of State is clear that this clarification may already have occurred both in the case of Health Moor and Romesdal and Health Mid-Norway. If this has not happened, which was at least an impression of a few months ago, at least all possible uncertainty should now be cleared of the road. I appreciate that, and we're going to contribute together to finding a solution to this issue that has been an accident for the North Moravia and Romesdal. It's been a long and very heavy process. Now, if we can control it on a proper track, I think everyone's earned it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e669	A few days ago – visiting Ålesund Hospital – I met with trustees from Health Møre and Romesdal and from the hospital in Molde. My impression from there – and from meeting with Health Mid-Norway – is that there is a good view of the process. It is important, when deciding such issues, which I have great respect for the involvement of communities, that the process is understood. And I can assure the representative Dahl that if there's anything we can do to clarify in terms of the process supervisor and the rules of the game, we're going to contribute to it. But my impression is that it is well understood, and the matter is this way seen in a good track.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e678	‘In its presentation in Stortinget on 26 February 2008, Minister for Health and Health Sylvia Brustad took seriously the Health and Safety Authority’s report on the situation at the emergency reception centres. In his reply in Stortinget on 3 April 2013, the Minister of Health and Health said that the report was followed up in a good and fast way. What has changed in emergency response since the 2008 report?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e685	It's probably in the category a little retro that I'm standing here now, because I understand that my prime minister has responded to this completely in the last hour. But I'm happy to respond. In the last week, the media and the opposition — including the head of the Health Committee — have taken a picture of the situation at the emergency reception stations that are gloomy and depressing. I have found it right to say that it is a picture I cannot stand for, and that I believe leads to an unjustified black paint. Yesterday I went to Haukeland Hospital and discussed with the management there the work at the emergency department. There is a dedicated work going on to improve and further develop the emergency reception at the large hospital. Last week I was at UNN in Tromsø, visiting the emergency room, looking at how they worked there and could see the same thing. As a result, we can conclude that, following the nationwide supervision of the Health Authority in 2007, many measures have been implemented — and implemented — to strengthen the competence and preparedness of emergency services. Hospitals also plan for further action. Actions undertaken and planned include, inter alia,: enhanced medical competence, new emergency assessment systems and regular training and enhancement of competence. This is, to the most extent, a management responsibility in hospitals. Let me put it this way: when we clarified it in the 2009 hospital mission document, to the regional health companies, it is that we expect to follow up month by month, year by year in such an important and complex area. That's what I think I'll find when I've visited a lot of emergency services. There are still challenges to this very important and difficult part of hospital operations. We are not in the target in this area, but there is a lot of good work going on. So there's been a lot of focus on the fact that there's a tourniquet doctor who first meets the patient in the emergency room. I would like to stress that the Tournament doctors have been critical that we have been able to maintain more than 50 hospitals with emergency functions. I would like to make it clear that Turners should continue to play an important role in the emergency reception, which is an important learning venue. I do not want to reject on a general basis that a tour operator may be the first to consider a patient admitted to the emergency room. But the prerequisite for this is, of course, that the tour operator is working with more experienced doctors who can provide help and guidance, and that the threshold for calling for help is low. Keeping that threshold low is a management responsibility. Hospital feedback indicates that there are largely established systems around the Tournament. I take an example that we could read online here a few days ago from the hospitals in the Nord-Trøndelag: If the ambulance service reports a possible serious condition, the emergency department is called in reverse before the patient has arrived at the hospital. This means that most serious conditions are assessed and treated by an experienced physician in the emergency department. Upon receipt of patients following accidents where there is reason to believe that there may be significant damage, a team of ten people, including four doctors, will be ready when the patient comes in. So the situation is more complex and nuanced. The hospitals themselves state that all regional hospitals, Stavanger University Hospital, Aarhus and all central hospitals, have a more experienced doctor present at the hospital 24 hours a day. It is for these large and medium-sized hospitals that 90 pst. by the emergency patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e704	I think it is a little special to present it as if it is the opposition who has drawn this picture of the situation at Norwegian emergency reception, as long as the opposition's description is based both on the experience of those working in the healthcare sector and on the health care services' opinions and on the opinion of the patients' representatives. Superiors Bjørnsen and Uleberg of the Emergency Medical Department at the St. Olavs Hospital recently stated in the Norwegian Medical Association Journal: ‘The structure and distribution of responsibilities in Norwegian emergency reception facilities is currently the same as in 2007.’ The assistant director of the Health Authority, Braut, said to TV 2 that experience based on the individual issues they had received was that the situation at the emergency department was the same now as it was when the report came in. What makes the Minister of Health rely more on the Director in the feedback from the companies than on the part of the supervisors and those who work in the service?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e716	Now we have another suggestion from the representative, Höie. The situation is complex – there are challenges in Norwegian emergency services, and we are working on it. What the representative said here in the Chamber a few days ago, that we have left the emergency receptions to the tour operators, is wrong, and that no development work has taken place since 2007, is wrong. The Health Inspectorate’s representative, who gave his opinion on a case-by-case basis, was cut into a context that could be understood as maintaining the same assessment in 2013 as in 2007. That's wrong. To clarify this, because it's an important topic, in a few days' time, I'm going to have a meeting with the health regions, the Health Directorate and the Health Authority to review that situation. I want it to be information that we can systematically evaluate. I note the concerns that come from some team, and I find by my own visits that important development work is being carried out at the hospitals. This also applies to the work on future specialist structures for doctors, including: It is also about strengthening the competence of acute and reception medicine, but it has not been concluded.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e723	When it comes to seeing that one has a slightly different approach than one had last week, I think maybe it's the Minister of Health himself who wins that competition, because the rejection of the description that came at the time was quite cash. When former Health Minister Brustad explained this in Stortinget, as I referred to it, she said that this will be sorted out as quickly as possible. It was in 2008. The Minister of Health now describes a process that is very close to completion and that works in many areas as it has recently started. Is this government's ambition in terms of speed as possible, that it will be five years before one clears up the situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e730	My words no longer reach, for the representative will not listen to what I say. I say that there has been a lot of work since 2007, and there is still work to raise the quality, organisation and management of Norwegian emergency services. That's what I said last week. I found reason to clarify that the picture that TV 2 drew did not match the picture I saw out there, but I recognized that it was something that we took seriously, and something that we are working on – everything from looking at the specialist structure of doctors to how hospitals organize themselves. However, there are different arrangements at Aarhus, which has between 130 and 150 emergency patients per day, and at the hospital in Tynset, which can have 5–6. That is why we must listen to these regional adaptations and they are going on. I have great respect for the fact that hospital management takes this seriously. Now I have a few days to see the management of the Norwegian Health Regions, the Directorate and the Health Authority in my eyes and to review that situation. Then there's a continuation of the work that's been going on in recent years, and we're a completely different place today than we were in 2007.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e741	My question to the Minister of Labour – and I have to make it clear that it is written before Easter – is the following: ‘For a longer time, there has been negative feedback from the Nav users on the content and form of messages sent to each user. Both Nav's leadership and political leadership have been in dialogue about this warning that you should do something about it. However, new feedback is received, at the latest last week from the recipient of social security benefits in Arendal, who has received a request for new information without additional justification and without the contact person specified for the enquiry. When can the Council of State promise that new information and good dialogue with users are in place?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e750	The question concerns a user who believes that the information he has received from the Employment and Welfare Act is too poor. I have asked the Directorate of Labour and Welfare, through the 2013 letter of assignment, that letters are clearly and intelligibly prepared for the users. The Working and Welfare Act has worked through its clear language project on the content and form of some of the letters that have not worked well enough for users. This applies primarily to letters in the areas of parental leave, redundancy pay and recovery. This is only a small part of all the letters sent out by the Employment and Welfare Act – these letters I now referred to. However, as a result of the work on these three letter groups, the clear language project also provides a new standard of letter – as we write a letter in Nav – which will apply to all future letter design in the Working and Welfare Act. At the same time, the Clairvoyance Project has improved the letter to be used by the Working and Welfare Team to obtain more information from users. The emphasis here is on making the letters clear and relevant, and on showing users how to submit information to the Working and Welfare Session. In the case to which the representative refers, it is also clear that the user has not been given a contact person for the enquiry from the Working and Welfare Session. All letters from the Working and Welfare Session shall be signed by the case handler, with the exception of mass dispatches and letters coming from automated processing. The letter concerning the collection of information shall be signed by the case handler who sends it to the user. The subject text of the letter also indicates the correct telephone number to be used by the user if necessary. This is already the case today. These letters are completed on the part of the plain language project and are now expected to be implemented in the ICT systems, so that they can now be used by case handlers. The employment and welfare seat has approx. 2000 different letter types in their system solutions. Improvements in letter types need to be prioritised in the context of other changes in ICT systems. It is because letter changes are closely related to the system solution. I would therefore like to clarify that the work of securing a clear and understandable language in which users receive good and sufficient information is a very high priority in the establishment. While improving the language of the department's letter, it will still take some time to change all the letters. I will continue to give high priority to language work, so that the letters from the Working and Welfare Department become more user-friendly and understandable and can implement the necessary improvements as soon as possible, including: in ICT systems.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e769	Thanks for the answer. It indicates that something is happening. I'm recording that the Council of State says "now". Whether it's immediate or not, she might be able to clarify in the answer. But that's how when I read this letter that this user had received, I got hurt in my stomach, and I realize that the user responded. At the beginning of the letter it says: We will re-evaluate your right to continued basic and auxiliary assistance. So there's a bunch of questions. A little further down it says: your basic benefit should also be re-assessed. Then there's some supplementary questions. Then there's an information in the end: if you think you're entitled to a higher social security rate, you have to make a claim to this effect. It can't be good dialogue. If this is the result of a longer-term job, I am surprised. What's the Council's comment on that?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e778	It's been working on it, but everything hasn't been done, so we can't see all the improvements right now. A new standard of correspondence – as we write letters in Nav – has just been consulted, and is now to be decided in the Directorate of Labour and Welfare. So this is going to work systematically. Not everything is done, because it is very closely related to the new ICT solutions within Nav. There are very important questions that the representative addresses here. When you're using the Nav system and you get letters that you don't understand, you often get annoyed, and you may not be able to deliver what Nav asks for. I have myself looked at some letters that have been the starting point for all this work, namely about the parental killers, which have been very incomprehensible, and it has been difficult to understand what has really been the case. I just want to say that this is very high priority of Nav, and that is very important in the dialogue with the users.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e789	It's good that something is going to happen now, and I also hope that the users can perhaps be included in the dialogue, because it might be said that this letter is kind of clear, but that's not very kind and positive. Speaking of the state council saying that there are now clear rules for this with case handler: this letter has no case handler, no contact information other than the address of the local office and telephone number of the hub of Nav nationally in Norway, where he contacted him and did not receive any help to get in touch with the case handler. It is obvious that this must be taken into account, and I am pleased that the Council of State promises it. So it kind of surprises me that it's going to be so extensive, just when everything's on data, changing some formulations and some kind introductions in such a letter. But I hope it comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e798	The problem is that not everything is on data now. We carry out the largest ICT modernisation in Velferds-Norway in connection with ICT Nav, and that is why we see this in the context of the implementation of the new ICT system. What is important is that all letters should be signed by the case handler, and there should also be the correct telephone number in the letter’s footer. I can't time precisely when all the changes are going to be implemented, but we see this in the context of getting everything on data now.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e809	My question goes to the Minister for Transport: ‘Forest industry in Norway estimates by air due to a generally high cost level. In addition, when Norwegian transport costs and regulation impose additional additional costs on industry, the situation becomes dramatic. In November last year, the Council of State wrote that we are now proposing an increase in the maximum length of timber trains from 22 to 24 metres and are considering proposing an increase in the total weight of 60 tonnes. Since then, nothing has happened. This concerns the extra costs in the hundreds of millions of people each year. Why such insidiousness?'
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e818	The Government is committed to facilitating good competitive conditions for the forest industry. As soon as possible, the Directorate of Road has been asked to provide the assessment of the increased length of the timber train from 22 to 24 metres and a trailer weight from 30 to 32 tonnes on the timber train in particular. The draft regulation has now been finalised, and one from the Ministry of Transport has asked the Directorate of Road to establish and implement the amending provisions on increased length and trailer weight immediately. However, I stress that this increase is conditional on current timber road sections tolerating the increased length and weight. Therefore, the type of transport on specified national road sections is initially opened, but we have requested from the Ministry of Transport that the county roads that have been considered for increased length should be adjusted as soon as possible in the road maps. Then the Road Directorate has also been asked by us to ask the county councils that county road sections that will be applicable to 24 metres long wooden car trains are mapped and assessed as soon as possible. It is the veggiery who is responsible for it. With regard to the issue of introducing 60 tonnes of total weight in timber transport, both the Ministry of Transport and the Directorate of Road Transport have been clear to the industry that we are positive in carrying out the consultation of this type of regulatory proposal. However, the introduction of an increased total weight depends on the fact that several elements are in place. The road safety element in a broad sense must preface a change, and it requires that we have sufficient knowledge of the endurance of bridges and other bottlenecks on those parts of the county road network where the total weight increase is desirable. Such monitoring must be carried out in close cooperation with the industry and with the counties as vegetarians. In any case, I can assure you that, like the industry, I am concerned that this work will be done as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e829	I am a little surprised when you talk about developing a good competitive environment. This isn't a new situation, it's been going on for years. It's not a length of transport – 24 meters will mean a little for carriers in the case of fines, which you are very active in applying by day, for lengths of timber mean you have to break 22 meters – which means something about transport costs, that's total weight. So that's what we're going to hear. I want to draw the attention of the Council of State to the fact that there was quite a high and dark state in 2005 when the Union was adopted. There was an adjustment within the group of Norwegian Forest, and a development of Norwegian Forest. Now you're faced with the fact that a whole value chain is on the move to disappear from Norway. There is evidence of much higher costs in Norway. Sweden is now experimenting with 70 tonnes of total weight – 90 tonnes of total weight in northern Sweden. So once again, I want to ask the Council of State, is it not any more urgent? We're now working overtime.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e838	As I said, the government is committed to facilitating good competition conditions for the forest industry, and we are aware of the demanding challenges we face. Now it seems that the representative may not be so busy with 24 meters anymore, but it was now part of the question asked by the representative. It is now implemented with immediate effect. In the case of 60 tonnes, there is a more demanding and slightly more complicated question, especially with regard to the county road network. That's why we need to carry out the consultation on that proposal in a slightly wider way than what we've done in terms of 24 meters and what we've had the opportunity to do there. That means it takes a little longer, and that also means there are some more difficult balances, especially with regard to what the county road network can withstand, and also to what bridges can withstand in terms of the total weight of 60 tons.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e847	I would like to correct: I am very busy with 24 meters, and would like to congratulate the Council of State on that. But it's kind of strange that you've been in government for eight years and you haven't done anything about it before. That's what was my point. Bottlenecks are a very familiar problem. It is clear that it must be sound on the basis of road standards. But when you had the Union situation in 2005, you were pretty tall and dark, and you've had eight years to look at it. The value chain in forests is quite clear – timber must be mowed, timber transported, it must be processed in Norway, and it must be sold in the international market with international competition. When we have such a high cost level as we have in Norway, and in addition have significant disadvantages at all levels, it should be reasonably obvious to the government that things have to be speeded up here. I heard the Council of State say that, among other things, would be the immediate realignment of weight limits. What's in that? Today, 1 May is the limit, as far as I know. Would it be an immediate upgrading?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e856	To take the last one first: yes, in the case of national road sections, it will be – even in the case of some county road sections. However, it is clear that we need to have contact with the county municipality as a vegetarian and request that they also contribute to adjusting the road maps of the county road sections concerned, where appropriate. It's because it's going to go pretty fast. In the case of 60 tons, it's a difficult balance, and I understand the needs of the forest industry. But it is clear that, as the Council of State, one must also take some account of the professional advice that comes from the Directorate of Roads. That means that this case is not quite simple. Suffering if it is now at the hearing and we provide that hearing, I cannot foreshadow what is going to be the result of such a case, because there are also professional arguments from the traffic authorities that a state council must take into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e867	‘On 28 February 2013, a tragic traffic accident occurred in which two persons lost their lives at Ådland Bru on E39 on Stord. The facts show that the route at Ådland Bru is a dangerous route with many serious accidents between March 2000 and March 2013. To the Official Journal of Bergen on 21 March, a representative of the State Road Administration says: "Today we would never build a crossroads at the end of a hillside and on a bridge." What operational measures and measures are being put in place to ensure that several accidents occur in Åland, and how does the State Road Service generally follow up dangerous road sections?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e874	As the representative underlines, this was a tragic accident, and E39 over Stord has been an accident-related stretch in recent years. In view of this, an analysis was carried out for the entire route from Stordabrua to Sandvikvåg in 2011 and a number of immediate measures were proposed and implemented, such as the identification of background markings, the setting of speed display boards, road lighting, spacefield and reduced speed limit on several of the routes in the area. The speed limit beyond the actual accident site in Åland Bru is today 70 km / h. In the light of the latest accidents, the State Road Administration is now working on a separate report which will assess several measures. These are measures such as minor adjustments to cross/geometry and plate regulation, with perhaps even more focus on speed limit and on the issue of visibility improvements on the routes. Furthermore, operational measures, perhaps in particular winter operations, will be addressed in this report and will serve as a basis for further action. The report will be finalised during April, and one will then come back to the concrete actions that will be implemented. In general, the State Road Administration monitors the accident situation on the road network by means of its accident register via municipal road safety plans and by public input. There are several unannounced sections in the West Region where this type of analytical report has been prepared or is being prepared. These reports form the basis for concrete proposals for immediate action on the various routes. Then it is that the knowledge that provides in-depth analysis of accidents and accident-prone distances also provides the basis for guidance for the design of new road systems in themselves. The professional and thorough approach one has taken to this in recent years is some of the explanation of the decline in the number of fatalities and injuries.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e885	Thanks for the answer. Concrete to E39 at Stord: I hope that action will be taken quickly. The monitoring is a reason for asking questions. Tuesday evening, 2 April this year, a Swedish trailer driver lost his life after an excursion on the E16 between Voss and Vinje. There's a sad similarity between these two events. Both fatal accidents occur on the European road in Hordaland, and both occur at the same point, where a number of accidents — including fatal accidents — have occurred over several years. Both sites remain without effective security measures from the State Road Administration. About the accident site on Voss last Tuesday, the Swedish Road Administration representative informed on TV 2 days later, i.e. on 3 April, that measures had been assessed, but were found to be too expensive. That is why I repeat the question: how does the state road system in general follow up dangerous road sections, especially dangerous places on the main road network — especially the European road network?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e896	As I tried to say in my reply, in the State Road Service there is a thorough analysis of accidents occurring, and these analyses are the starting point for action taken, both immediate and more comprehensive measures relating to longer road sections and, in general, to the design of new road installations when new roads are being built. While it is clear that it is part of the important road safety work, it is not only that it contributes to the reduction of accidents, and it may at least be some of the explanation that one can manage both to repair routes and to design new road installations in a better way than one might have done in previous years.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e903	In the case of E16 between Voss and Vinje, where the last fatal accident occurred, consumer representatives say, among others. Truck owners-Association, accidents here are really just something we're going to wait for. Not only do we wait for measures from the State Road Service, but it is actually the case that users are being intimidated and waiting for new fatal accidents. The government has set up roadside supervision under the State Road Administration – we believe that this is a poor solution, but it is a better solution than not having roadside supervision. It is now important that supervision comes on the road – it may be more appropriate to say ‘on the road’ in this context – because it must and should be an important task, in the view of the Progress Party, that roadside supervision, even localised on Voss, should be included in the most at risk of accidents. I ask concretely: will the Road Safety Authority supervise particularly accident-prone road sections, especially on the European road network? And: Will the Road Safety Authority have sanctions when accident points are not improved by the Road Safety Authority itself, the State, at the State Road Service?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e910	The division of labour concluded between the State Road Administration and the Road Safety Authority shall be situated there and the role of road safety as supervision shall be further developed. It is important that the Road Safety Authority should be able to monitor that the trade unions do the job they are going to do. Whether or not to have a more maritime role in following the individual routes is a question we may need to get back to. I'm more uncertain about that. But I have to say that I see the work done by the State Road Administration in general – and I respond on a general basis – in terms of analyses related to both accidents and prevention work, has become very good in recent years and must also be a good starting point for further work. It is necessary to provide a basis for new road installations when they are being built and to ensure better operation and maintenance on sections which are known to be heavily damaged.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e919	Then my question has also been answered far on the way, but I'm going to ask it anyway: «Once again, we have received the tragic message that a train has driven off the road and that a person has lost his life on the narrow and unwieldy stretch of E16 between Voss and the County border of Sogn and Fjordane. There have been several such events in winter, as there have also been previous winters. The distance is far from the European road standard, narrow, inconspicuous and fluctuating, and therefore particularly challenging for large vehicles, especially in winter driving. Will the Council of State take a closer look at this route and take immediate action?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e928	In recent years, several measures have been implemented on this route. Retreaders and edge-enhancing measures have been set up, a chain space has been completed, the speed limit has been reduced in several places, and minor measures have been taken, especially in the area of Sundve School. In addition, ice protection and race protection have been carried out. The contractor has a focus on particularly vulnerable routes and accident points. The concrete accident site between Vinje and Sundve has been marked as a special accident site since the previous accident, and the turn is marked much more clearly. Racket works have been reinforced as much as possible in relation to the foundation of the road. What is needed to improve the visibility of the oscillation at the point of accident has also been investigated. The representative requests immediate action after the accident last week. I can inform you that the Swedish Road Administration has started a process of inspection of the route between Skulestadmo and Oppheim for traffic safety, similar to that carried out on the E16 west of Voss. This involves prioritising relevant points, identifying actions that maximise their short-term impact, calculating and prioritising the actions, financing and carrying out the selected actions. Here, as in the past, it would be natural to cooperate with representatives from the municipality, the police and the LVU in their work. Once the measures have been finalised, they will be implemented on an agreed basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e937	But still, the road is so dangerous that children who live only 300 meters away from school are entitled to school kisses. What does the Council of State think about is that the E16 in Hordaland/Sogn and Fjordane are now being repaired, and in fact it has been repaired on both sides of this route – from Voss and northward, even up to the four-field road at a speed of 90 km/h – while you have to have some life-threatening kilometers where there is only a one-field road. It is then a bottleneck, of course, and it is a crown example of climbing. And so is it that 3,000 recreational homes are planned in this area, which are going to reinforce this situation. Is it possible for the Council of State to bring about a small leakage today as well – it is time for now – if you want to carry out the improvements of this route?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e948	In general, it is possible to say that E16 is one of the most important trajectories as a link between parts of the country and also within a region. So it's clear that it's a stretch that's important, and it's important that it gets a standard everywhere that makes it roadworthy and good to drive on. As regards this route and the longer-term measures that may be proposed, I must be allowed to come back to it when NTP is submitted on Friday.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e955	Thank you for that. I think that will delight the 350 concerned people who met at a public meeting earlier this winter. So after that, the new accident has happened. I want to address a topic that was raised in the previous question, namely this by opening regulatory proceedings. Now both the Transport Workers' Association and the lorry drivers believe that this should be done on this route. It may be interesting in this context — since this supervision is so fresh — to get the views of the Council of State, from a political point of view, on whether this is a matter that she believes qualifies for the opening of supervisory proceedings. I ask the question both specifically for this project and on a general basis since this is a quite new scheme for us.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e962	To that question, I have to answer on a slightly general basis. This is a question that has not been addressed or assessed by one of the departments. In general, however, it is the different supervisory bodies that decide whether or not to open regulatory cases to agencies, and it is usually the case that neither politically nor by the Department otherwise signals that kind of thing. It will be the supervision of the sea that decides. At least there is a general rule for all other supervision. I expect – without being able to answer it specifically – that this also applies to the Road Safety Authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e971	I would like to ask the Minister for Agriculture and Food the following questions: ‘Investigations by the Agriculture Fire Protection Committee show that approx. 70 pst. by agricultural fires due to faults on the electrical system. How does the Council of State see that we can reduce the number of fires in agriculture, fires that often have very tragic consequences?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e980	There is no doubt that agricultural fires are serious and lead to severe loss of animal life and material damage. The agricultural industry has developed its own quality system, KSL. The system covers all types of food production on Norwegian farms and imposes requirements on how to carry out production and what to document. The system includes annual internal audits and external audits of a certain percentage of all farms. 99.66 pst. of Norwegian farms have self-audit systems. HMS is part of the KSL system and includes, inter alia: electrical control and warning instructions. It is important for me to stress that it is the farmer himself, as a self-employed person, and the individual undertaking responsible for ensuring the operation against fire and implementing fire prevention measures. The follow-up to the KSL system suggests that the farmer takes this responsibility seriously. In agricultural buildings where animals are present, fire prevention is particularly important, as evacuation of panic stricken animals is arduous to deal with. Animal husbandry legislation has laid down building requirements to help prevent fire, prevent the spread of fire to animal spaces and to ensure a certain possibility of animal evacuation. It is also recommended that emergency plans be drawn up for each individual use and fire drills should be carried out. Studies carried out by the Agriculture Fire Protection Committee show that fire alarm systems halve the risk of total damage at the time of fire. Appropriate and approved fire alarm systems are required in livestock buildings with herds over a certain size. Norway has the world’s highest coverage of fire alarm systems in livestock buildings. The insurance industry considers the improvement of electricity controls as an important measure to prevent fire in agricultural buildings and discounts are given in the insurance premium if the farmer carries out regular electricity checks. The insurance industry also participates in the Agricultural Fire Protection Committee, where the reduction of flammable faults in electrical installations is a priority area. Although the last responsibility lies with the farmer himself, I consider it important that the authorities also contribute to the fire prevention work. Through the agricultural agreement, annual funds are allocated to the Agricultural HMS service – 14 million. kr for 2013. They offer, inter alia: course in fire prevention and fire protection. In 2012, the National Agricultural Safety and Health Campaign was launched. Fire and fire safety are the central theme of the campaign, and I have great hope that it will contribute to increased knowledge and awareness of fire protection. I believe it is important that more actors work together to find measures that can reduce the number of fires in agriculture. The National Agricultural HMS Cooperation Forum, which I lead, has met twice a year since its inception in 2010, most recently last week. The Forum has a broad representation of both industry and private and public actors, including the Agricultural Fire Protection Committee and the insurance industry. At these meetings we are regularly kept informed about developments in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e999	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I might be a little disappointed that he's not looking forward. I have raised similar questions in the past, both with the previous Minister of Agriculture and before that as well. There really hasn't happened anything, I think. One has promised to look at the matter, but there are still many fires with many animal diseases and financial losses. If I remember correctly, it burned from 2006 to 2011 for over 2 billion. kr. There is a great economy in this too – so that we could save both animal diseases and the economy. I believe that for some of the farmers who experience losing their crew in fire – let's say that, for example. 400 pigs burn up – it is clear that it does something to those who run the farm as well. Therefore, I had hoped that the Council of State could be a little more specific about how the Council of State sees it that we can reduce the number of fires in agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e1006	This is a complex problem, but in many cases faults in electrical installations have been one of the explanations of tragic fires in livestock buildings and other types of agricultural buildings. When we are going to go further in reducing fires – in addition to what has already been done, not least in terms of agricultural quality assurance and that we now have a completely different attitude to having approved fire protection systems in Norwegian construction – we need to look at whether improvements can be made in the control systems for power plants, which I think can be among the most relevant measures to assess.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e1013	I thank the Council of State for the answer. There is no doubt that in most fires – up to approx. 70 pst. – then there is the electrical system there is something wrong with, and that triggers a fire. There is also no doubt that the individual farmer is responsible for this, but the individual farmer is not trained as an electrician. At least there are very few electricians who are farmers, to say it like that. That's why there have to be some specific issues, and I think that more frequent controls are at least one of them. We can't go on with as big animals as the ones we have a day, and that's not a few. That is why I want the Council of State to be strong here and make demands that individual farmers can make – within reasonable limits.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e1022	Changes are being made to the regulations on the keeping of cattle, pigs, chickens and turkeys, horses, and changes to the regulation on the welfare of small ruminants are also being made, so it is a quite wide range. One of the measures that should be discussed is whether we can make changes in the setting of requirements for control officers to check the electricity plants in Norwegian livestock buildings. Then we are at the top of the world with regard to the number of livestock buildings that have warning systems, and there are strict requirements for this, because we are all very concerned that we should have the least possible fires with tragic results.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e1031	«In a longer series of articles, the Official Journal of the European Communities has revealed what appears to be a systematic distribution of funds to equivalent cultural institutions in favour of institutions in Oslo. So far, the Council of State has not wanted to answer questions from the paper on this issue, despite the fact that the theme is, in principle, important for understanding national cultural policy. Can the Council of State justify the discrimination detected, in particular with regard to national orchestras and theatres and investments in museum buildings?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e1038	I thank you for the question from the representative of Warloe. I'm a little hoarse, but I think I'll be able to make myself understood. Different numbers show different shades. Warloe and I can find out that the discussion about these things is interesting, but I don't think we're going to meet the premises that he's going into this debate with. Divide the cultural resources by a model where everyone gets the same number of dollars per head, doesn't give a fair or equivalent cultural policy. A government needs to increase its height for the different needs of the entire country. If we are to stop assessing local needs and start allocating the same number of dollars per capita, regardless of the ratio, then we have abolished cultural policy. At the same time, the debate that has gone on has not only been about dollars per head. In the series of articles to which Warloe refers, one also compares the operating preferences of different institutions in Bergen and Oslo. There are examples of institutions in Oslo that get more than institutions in Bergen. Conversely, there are also measures in Bergen that take more than measures in Oslo. Not all theatres, museums or festivals should have the same state preference because they are in the same budget line. Such a cultural policy would provide little opportunity to adapt the instruments of action to their needs. All institutions and all measures are different, and they must be treated individually. It's a fairly widespread perception around the world that some national functions are added to a capital. The contributions of the individual museums, orchestras and theatres must be evaluated in a concrete way. These may be prosaic but necessary expenditures such as rents and pensions. We also look at what institutions want and need, and we look at how well they manage the funds. We also look at the needs of the cultural field in a health club. Warloe bases his question on the importance of understanding national cultural policies as a matter of principle. I agree with that. The principle may not be the same number of dollars per head at all locations, or the same amount of operating grants to institutions at the same budget line. I'm sure no one, nor Bergen, would be interested in looking at such a cultural policy in practice. Our government wants the cultural resources to benefit the whole country. Then we have to balance our needs towards each other in a thoughtful and nuanced way. Warloe suggests that I have not wanted to take this debate. There's probably some kind of misinterpretation. It has been important for me to provide good service to Bergen's Official Journal within the deadlines that the newspaper itself has seen for the series of articles that the newspaper has wanted to run. I think it's great that we have newspaper editorials and cultural editorials that give priority to asking detailed questions about cultural policy, and I'm busy getting answers within the deadlines that they themselves have seen. That's why the Secretary of State has responded on my behalf. But the positions that are our target children are the same as mine, and I have also participated in this debate in other arenas than in the Official Journal of Bergen, and now the last days in the Official Journal of Bergen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e1057	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I'm aware that she's been on the track for the last few days, and that's very positive. I fully agree with the Council of State that one should not operate with millimetres of justice or distribute crowns exactly the same. But it is the Council of State itself who has said that the opposite, that is to say, making quality criteria so that you can actually get an objective, comprehensive assessment of institutions and what they perform, is terribly difficult. Then I'm very uncertain about what is the state's policy in this area. The Council of State also stated that it was natural for national institutions to be added to the capital. In fact, I fully agree with that. But the reverse is very unfortunate – if institutions located in the capital are considered national and thus receive a special treatment in addition to objective quality criteria, it is therefore distorted. So the state has made massive investments in recent years and is still going to do so in the capital, and new so-called national institutions are being set up in Oslo. Does the Council of State see this creating an ever-increasing bias in this balance between the capital and the rest of the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e1066	The representative Warloe says he has the impression that the Ministry of Culture is not interested in developing the quality criterion, or that it is very difficult. It is important for me to stress that having good quality indicators is an important work. The Enger selection, which I myself have put down to get critical input into how our work can be best suited to cultural life throughout the country, has also pointed out that the quality discussion must be given priority in the future. There is also one of the hindrances that we have already taken the initiative to start developing that kind of assessment, among other things. We evaluate three theatres, not only the National Theatre, but also Sogn and Fjordane Theatre and Rogaland Theatre, with the aim of developing quality indicators that are emerging in the cultural field as well. But when we evaluate the applications we get, we evaluate them in a very concrete way. We evaluate them on the basis of their reports on how money has been spent before, what ambitions they have in the future, the use of resources and the work of the public. It is clear that the sum of it also says something about the quality of the institution.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e1071	One thing is the state cultural policy and the assessment of how state resources are distributed. Another thing is national cultural policy — how will Norway develop as a cultural nation? Norway is a small country. Two thirds of all professional artists in Norway live and work in Oslo. Here are the great classical and heavy institutions, and here is the weight of culture in Norway. I think it's important for Norway as a cultural nation that there's another centre of gravity also somewhere else. This can't be achieved anywhere, but in Norway's oldest city of culture – if I'm allowed to use that term – there are ambitions, and there are, therefore, centres of gravity that keep a relevant level of quality in international context. The mountains have international ambitions as a cultural city. Will the Council of State suggest that this could be a debate in national cultural policy, and what role should a city like Bergen have for Norway, not just for Bergen?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e1078	The answer to that is yes. Now we're developing the next big cultural promise, and as part of that work, I'm going to travel to absolutely every state to get recordings and assessments from every part of cultural life on what's going to be the elements of the next big cultural promise. I'm coming to Bergen on May 23rd. I expect to be challenged and get good impressions from Bergen's cultural life, and that they have a good, well-thought-out view of how Bergen as a city of culture can be seen even more on the map. Mountain is a unique city in many ways. The mountain is also unique in the sense that it is the only city in Norway in addition to the capital that houses national institutions. It also says something about the cultural power of Bergen, and the heavy history that one has in Bergen with a stake in different cultural areas says that Bergen also has a great potential in the future. But it is also important to me that we manage to lift all parts of the country, so that different parts of the country can challenge each other. In this way, we can also develop the quality of culture in all parts of our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e1083	We thank the Council of State for coming to Stortinget and giving priority to Stortinget even though she had his voice. Good recovery! Case No. So 2 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-10.ana.ud394e1098	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
