ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e34	Representatives of Anders B. Werp, Kåre Simensen, Jan Arild Ellingsen and Lene Wagslid, who have been licensed, have once again taken the seat. The following called alternates have taken their seats: for the West Agder province: Linda Verdal for Hedmark County: Lasse Juliussen for the Nordic region: Tone-Helen Toften for the Rogaland County: Sissel Knutsen Hegdal The Workers' Group has been informed that the granted leave of the representative Else-May Botten has been withdrawn. – This is taken into account. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e83	The President first requests proposals for new members of the Electoral Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e86	I am delighted to propose Bjørn Lødemel instead of Elisabeth Aspaker and Kristin Ørmen Johnsen instead of Ine M. Eriksen Soreide.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e91	Bjørn Lødemel and Kristin Örmen Johnsen have been proposed as new members of the electoral committee instead of Elisabeth Aspaker and Ine M. Eriksen Soreide, who have joined the government. Are there any more proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e96	The Progress Party wishes to propose that Oskar J. Grimstad, Gjermund Hagesetter and Ulf Leirstein, who have been alternate members, be appointed as permanent members of the Election Committee, and that the following new alternates be appointed: Bente Thorsen, Mazyar Keshvari and Sivert Haugen Bjørnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e101	We'll come back to the alternates. As new members of the electoral committee, Oskar J. Grimstad, Gjermund Hagesetter and Ulf Leirstein have been proposed instead of Anders Anundsen and Solvency Horne, who have joined the government, and Bård Hoksrud, who has become Secretary of State. Are there any more proposals? - Then it doesn't seem, and the president suggests that it be voted in the usual way.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e112	The President then asks for proposals for new alternates to the Electoral Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e115	I am delighted to propose Frank J. Jenssen as a new alternate instead of Torbjørn Røe Isaksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e120	Frank J. Jenssen is proposed as a new alternate instead of Torbjørn Røe Isaksen, who has joined the government. Are there any more proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e125	The same ones that I proposed instead.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e131	Bente Thorsen, Mazyar Keshvari and Sivert Haugen Bjørnstad are proposed as new alternates instead of Oskar J. Grimstad, Gjermund Hagesetter and Ulf Leirstein. Several proposals are not available, and the President proposes that they be voted in the usual way.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e142	The President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 2 and 3 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e167	The President will propose that the debate be organised as follows: The debate takes place over two days and begins with speeches by parliamentary leaders of up to 10 minutes, followed by a row of up to six lines. 44 posts of up to 5 minutes are distributed among the lots as follows: Party 14 posts, Right 12 posts, Party 7 posts, Party 3 posts, Party 3 posts, Party 3 posts, Party 3 posts, Party 3 posts and Party 2 posts. About two thirds of the stakes are held today, the remaining ones will be held tomorrow. It opens up up to four lines on each post after two of the posts from the Labour Party, the Right and the Advance Party and after one of the speeches from the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Left and the Socialist Left Party. Five Councils of State shall be given a speaking time of up to 5 minutes, with a subsequent row of up to six lines. After completion of the allocated speaking time at today's meeting, it will be opened for submissions of up to 3 minutes. The meeting will end at the latest at 9 a.m. 22nd@item: inlistbox Wednesday's meeting will be set at 9 a.m. 10 and starting with a post from the Prime Minister of up to 15 minutes, followed by a row of up to 12 lines. Then follow the remaining posts of up to 5 minutes, and then any remaining three-minute posts from today's meeting as well as those that sign up during Wednesday's debate. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e188	The election has given the country a new government consisting of the Right Party and the Advance Party. It is a minority government that builds its parliamentary basis on a cooperation agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left. I wish the new government every success in their important work. The Labour Party did not achieve what was our main goal in the election: majority with SV and the Center Party. But the voters also made this time the Workers' Party a clearly largest party in the country. We have to manage the trust shown by the voters in a responsible way. We're going to do that to solve the many unsolved problems that our country is still facing. Both the census and the government statement confirm that Norway is doing well. Never has a government taken over an economy that is in better condition. No more people have ever been at work. Unemployment is low both historically in Norway and compared to other countries. Productivity is high. More than 350 000 new jobs and thousands of new businesses have been created. Working has become more profitable. The pension reform, the impregnation reform, the restriction of cash support and changes in the tax system have contributed to this. The working party is not satisfied. That's why we want to strengthen the working line. The draft State budget for 2014 reduces taxes on low income while removing tax class 2 and closing the tax system. It will contribute both to a fairer distribution and to more people being left to work. Responsible use of oil money is essential to continue the good development of the Norwegian economy. It is important for the competitiveness of industry and for everyone with housing debts. It is also important in order to avoid increasing the two-foldness of the Norwegian economy. We are in a period of strong growth in the pension fund and low unemployment. It is therefore in line with the rule of action that the use of oil money should be clearly below the 4 % path. Our government has followed up on this by lying at 2.9 pst. I hope that the new government will stick to such a responsible use of money. A knowledge promise has been made in Norwegian school. The return to Norwegian school has been reversed to progress. The results of international studies were preliminary. Now they're rising. But the Workers' Party is not satisfied here either. That is why we believe it is necessary to build on the progress we have seen in recent years and to make new commitments in Norwegian school. We go in to double the continuing training of teachers, more early efforts for children who are looking for more and more organisation for the most beautiful students. Norway has become more diverse and fairer over the eight years of our government’s rule. Differences have decreased. Like many other countries, Norway has tended to increase inequality in recent decades. With us, this trend stopped in the period after 2005. Modern family policies have contributed both to diversity and to justice. Kindergarten to everyone, at a price that is to live with, paper school and right for gays to marry the one you love are examples of this. In the draft state budget for 2014, we are continuing this policy, with two child care admissions per year and a further real reduction in parental pay. We know that there are strong driving forces in society that are moving towards increasing differences. We see it in the labour market, in the housing market and in the stock market. Policies must be counterbalanced with these cancers – and at least not the reverse. We also see good results in health and care. The number of treatments in hospitals is increasing, and the quality is increasing. Tens of thousands of jobs in care professionals, and we have been committed to quality, new technology and interaction with relatives and volunteers. We have reorganized the hospitals to improve the distribution of work between hospitals, and a lot of expertise has been invested. Here, too, we want a new lift to be taken so that more people get treatments, and that the quality continues to increase. Our goal is one million more treatments in Norwegian hospitals, and we are on our promise of 12 billion. kr more to the hospitals. We want to legislate the right to daily services for people with dementia, and we want to improve the offer with user-driven personal assistance. The main challenges of our time are poverty and climate. Norway has been a driver of an international climate agreement. Emissions in Norway are now decreasing. Emissions have been at their lowest level since 1995, with the exception of the financial crisis year 2009. We have been at the forefront of the most important single measure to reduce world emissions, namely reduced deforestation. We are happy to contribute to the strengthening of climate reconciliation, and we must continue to take responsibility for the world's poorest. That's why I'm worried when the government in its platform doesn't stand by that 1 pst. of our revenues shall be provided for assistance. The Government Declaration contains a lot that all batches can stand behind. I am pleased that today's government is following up many of the efforts of the previous government, such as simplification for business, digitisation of the public sector, further stepping up research and reform of police and preparedness. The new government must be measured by what it does, and by the promises made by the government parties before the elections. I understand that there is a disagreement between government parties, that is a compromise. But in many important areas, they agreed, and they cannot negotiate away from what they agreed on, after the election. Common promises they made in the election campaign are not to be found in the platform. I'm assuming that doesn't mean they've already decided to break the election vows. Both the Right and the Advance Party promised at least 12 billion. kr more to the hospital. I look forward to it being followed up. Both parties also promised to abolish the regional health establishments. They still promise, but after two days, the new Minister of Health says that it is uncertain whether they can implement it within four years. This means that health establishments must be on notice for four years. It creates unclear responsibilities, uncertainty and reduced implementation in the large and important hospital sector. Both the Right and the Advance Party promised many new, concrete road projects in addition to our record effort in the National Transport Plan. I'm excited about how it's being followed up – combined with reduced toll rates in new projects. This is in addition to that they promised between 25 and 100 billion. kr in tax cuts. The Labour Party said before the elections that all this is not related. I think the next budgets will show that we were right. The Government Declaration reflects some of the main choices that marked the campaign, namely publicly funded primary school or privatised school, a policy of more justice or tax cuts to those who have the most previous, strengthened employee rights or more temporary employment and reduced overtime payments. For the Workers' Party, it is important that we continue to build a society in which our common institutions and arrangements contribute to giving each one more freedom. The common school, health care and public welfare are important mechanisms to ensure freedom for people. The Norwegian model is about doing things together. I would warn the new government not to rock justice and the Community's thinking in Norway. The Prime Minister's aim was to establish a majority government. She didn't do that. That means that the majority must be established in Stortinget. I look forward to the work in Stortinget. We must take responsibility as the largest opposition party, but at the same time make demands with our values and political choices as the starting point.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e237	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e240	First, it's a pleasure to wish Jens Stoltenberg back to Stortinget as a great representative. Welcome here! This is an exciting big deal that the representative himself points to. We have a minority government, and a lot has to be decided here in the house, so I'm glad the representative has signaled that the Workers' Party wants to be a responsible and constructive opposition. Then, of course, it is the plot of the previous Prime Minister to paint the situation and say that it has never been better in Norway than it is now. Yes, we agree on that, it's very good in Norway, but the former Minister of Labour Anniken Huitfeldt pointed out that the labour market has deteriorated somewhat in the last year, and that there is an increase in the number of unemployed. Kristin Forest Lund in the NHO says that 20 billion is invested. kr in mainland Norway, while investing 200 billion. kr in the oil sector. There has been no such low level of investment in mainland Norway since 1970. Does the representative of Stoltenberg see the need for change? Does the representative see the need for broad settlements on important societal issues in the coming years?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e251	First, I would like to thank you for your congratulations and for welcoming me to Stortinget. This is, as I have said on some other occasions, the fourth time I go from government to big business. It's nice every time. It's always the beginning of something new and exciting in politics. My experience is that it is both exciting and important to be in Stortinget, and that after a few years you are back in government. [[muttering in the hall]] Then I was in my post several times busy stressing that we are not satisfied. The fact that we have Europe's lowest unemployment rate is good, but we're not satisfied. The fact that we get a lot is good, but we're not satisfied. We're going to do something about the mainland economy, but the numbers are completely wrong. Investment is as high in the mainland economy as in the oil sector. It's among the myths that the right-hand side has created, which are distorted images of how things are going in our country. But I'd like to contribute to making Norway better, preferably in broad terms, and look forward to cooperating with many parties in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e260	The head of the Oslo Workers' Society, Fredrik Mellem, has stated in both the Newspaper and in the Newspaper and in a chronicle in the VG today that the Workers' Party must now seek compromise and broad reconciliation. Among other things, he mentions: examples such as the closure of the county council, municipal reform and the winding-up of health enterprises. The Stoltenberg I government was, in many ways, marked by reform and innovation – so the voters were not so satisfied with it – while the Stoltenberg II government, which had been sitting for eight years, has been primarily influenced by more money use and little reform. Does the representative of Stoltenberg see the need to make some overall changes in order to ensure better services to the population, and does he see the need to engage in broad political settlements in order to take Norway further?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e269	I see an absolute need for far-reaching reforms, in line with what the outgoing government has been doing for eight years. Perhaps the biggest reform of some public scheme ever is the pension reform. It has been a major project of this government. The UN reform, which is starting to work in 2015, is another major reform. The whole conversion of defence is perhaps one of the most successful examples of transformation in the public sector. What we've done in the hospitals are also extensive changes that make us get healthier, better healthier, and even more for the money we invest in the health sector. So reforms are in line with both the Stoltenberg I and Stoltenberg II governments. We have also launched new large-scale projects, such as the digitisation of the public sector and business simplification, and we are engaged in many other projects, including: Police conversion. So we like to participate in dialogue, cooperation and conciliation. But I notice that one of the major reforms that the right parties launched, namely the abolition of health businesses, has now said that they need four years to investigate. We spent more than one year on the state acquisition of hospitals in 2001. This government shall take four years to carry out an adjustment to the reform. There is no evidence of a great deal of implementation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e278	Also I would like to welcome Stoltenberg back to Stortinget. I must admit that the joy is greater when he comes this way than when he goes the other way; I just have to admit that! We have now heard the article to Stoltenberg. In this context, he points to the high level of employment in Norway. Yes, we have a good job in Norway today. However, it is true that some have been outside the job market, which is so important in the welfare state, and especially in the case of people with disabilities. Both in the census and in the budget submitted, very few traces are found of measures relating to how to increase the number of people with disabilities at work. Will Stoltenberg and the Workers' Party agree that we are changing the policy in this area just to ensure that people with disabilities can also participate more fully in the labour market, and thus also in the well-being of others?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e287	I fully accept that the representative is more pleased that I am going from government to government than the other. But in order for him to enjoy that I am going from government to Stortinget one more time, I must necessarily return to government [[muttering in the hall]] In the case of people with disabilities, there are many things that should be done and done. One is that low unemployment also helps to help those who are struggling in the labour market. High employment contributes to the same thing. We have also launched increased use of wage subsidies. The whole unforeseeable reform, which I think is a very undervalued reform, has one main objective: to make it easier to combine disability with work. We've done that to a great extent in terms of retirement. Now, many people are combining old-age pensions with work. If we get the new disability reform in place, it will also be much easier to combine disability benefits with work. It will be important for many people with disabilities. But again, this is an area where we've achieved a lot, but where we're very concerned about achieving more, and we like to participate in debates, discussions and settlements with the government parties about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e298	I fully share the situation description of the representative Stoltenberg. Norway is very good, not least when compared with countries around Europe, and not least south of Europe. So I also hear that the representative Stoltenberg says that he is not happy with everything. In many ways he says that the government should have come further in some areas. My question is, is there any area where the representative Stoltenberg sees that the previous red-green government has done things that are crazy, where one should think different? Sunday is the day of peace and prayer. It is possible to repent of their sins and thus also move on! So my question isn't whether there's any area you're not satisfied with, but whether one actually sees that one could do things differently and better.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e312	I'm going to think carefully about Sunday if there are areas where we've done something completely wrong. I have a lot easier to mention areas where we would like to get more. Areas where we've done things completely wrong, I find it difficult to take on a standing foot; it's important to think carefully before making such significant statements. In any case, in the case of e.g.: inclusion, when it comes to bringing people outside the labour market back to work, are the areas where we've got a lot, but where it's not possible to say that we're satisfied. That's why we want to do more in those areas. But there are more examples of us wanting to do more than examples of areas where I want to say that we've done things completely wrong. I promise to think carefully about the question to Sunday!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e319	It seems that the change from government to big business has done the representative Stoltenberg well. With good energy, pressure and humor he has suddenly entered the hall in a whole new role, and I think that's positive. When the representative Stoltenberg was Prime Minister Stoltenberg, he delivered a speech to the King who is formally also the basis for this debate. In it it said that he would follow up the climate agreement. When party leader Stoltenberg gave his speech for his national meeting, I think – we tried to take the time – he spoke together about the climate and the environment for seven seconds. When party leader Stoltenberg presented the programme with the five major challenges facing Norway, the climate was not mentioned. Nevertheless, opposition leader Stoltenberg was at the party with me when he was disappointed that the government among its eight bet areas did not have the climate. Is it such that the transformation has now occurred, and that he is suddenly on the team again? Can we count on that?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e326	I mean to remember that I also had a good mood when I was prime minister. I can at least remember that I laughed several times. [[muttering in the hall]] One of my most important speeches in this election campaign was the speech I gave on Ut Island this summer. It was almost just about climate. Unfortunately -- it didn't exactly take the front pages. But as Prime Minister, as party leader in an election year, I spent a lot of time on climate. Among the things I did as Prime Minister was to lead the United Nations Commission on Climate Change funding – an important mission for Norway – and we carried out major actions. We contributed to two climate settlements in Stortinget, and I would like to contribute to new climate settlements – and would like to strengthen it. We have submitted two climate announcements in our government, and I hope that there will be a climate announcement from the new government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e333	I want to go a little further – unfortunately – on a very serious topic, where it is really not possible, and where it is very important to intensify work to get good results, namely action against poverty. When former Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen promised that poverty in Norway – and in particular child poverty – would be eliminated with a pen stroke, many had great expectations. The government that has now resigned has been sitting for eight years, and we have got a new government that, through its platform, will point to a number of measures that have been envisaged to address poverty. Is the representative of Stoltenberg satisfied with what the outgoing government has done in this field, all the time when the number of poor children in Norway has never been higher than it is today?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e344	There are very few areas where I can say that I am satisfied, and that is why I believe that we have done a lot of business in many areas of policy. But that doesn't mean we haven't made a significant effort. It has also been done in these areas. After many years of significant growth in the proportion of poor in Norway, it flattened out, and measured as the OECD measures it, it actually declined slightly for the first time in many years. But that's not good enough. There are still too many people struggling with poor finances, and especially families with children. The largest group of immigrants and the integration of immigrants is the key to also reducing the number of poor children. There is work essential. I believe that some of the measures that the government has now launched go in the opposite direction and make it less profitable, especially for immigrant women, to get a job. It will increase child poverty. We have proposed several measures over several years, most recently in the budget we have now proposed, which makes it more profitable, especially for people with low incomes, to work – especially for women who work part-time. The effort we have had over a long time on drugs and psychiatry is also crucial to combating poverty. So yes, we're busy betting, we've been betting, and we want to do more.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e355	This means that the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e358	On 9 September the voters gave the four parties on the bourgeois side an historically strong majority, the largest bourgeois majority in modern times, a majority Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left before the elections promised to give the country a new government. The voters wanted new solutions to the challenges we are facing. The parties agreed earlier in the harvest that the majority should be managed jointly in the Stortinget. The agreement is set out in an agreement with a common value base, common policy fields and positions, as well as a description of the form of cooperation during the period. The Cooperation Parties Right, Advance Party, Christian People's Party and Left signed a historic agreement. The specialities brought with transparency and mutual respect have brought the four parties closer together and have contributed to important political clarifications and the design of joint projects. There is a lot that is good in Norway. That's why we need to strengthen the good sides in order to preserve our common values. People will notice that the country has been given a new government. In the policy platform negotiated at Sundvolden, with the cooperation agreement as an important basic document, the Right and the Progress Party agree on eight areas of action to contribute to this. There is no doubt that good education forms the basis for the future. Knowledge provides freedom of choice and opportunities for the individual regardless of background. Knowledge also forms the basis for social mobility in society. The government will build the country for the future by realising the knowledge society. Just by investing in knowledge, the government shows that it does not have a four-year perspective but a generation perspective. We're gonna bet on a teacher's vow, we're gonna bet on better continuing education, and in consultation with the teacher's councils, we're gonna make sure that teachers get new career paths and better initial training, so that the teacher's profession becomes more challenging and rewarding. The government will improve the competitiveness of business in mainland Norway to create more secure jobs. Innovation, knowledge and technology are important areas of activity, so Norway is equipped to meet tomorrow’s competition in a globalised world. In the last eight years, Norway has become more oil dependent, and a two-part economy is making it increasingly important to ensure that we have more legs to stand on financially. Therefore, the government will ensure good framework conditions for business throughout the country and strengthen private Norwegian ownership. By increasing the investment in research and establishing more world-leading university environments, the government will have the ambition to make Norway one of the most innovative countries in Europe in the long term. Trust in the family and the individual is important for creating a good society. Politicians don't create, but we have the choice of making it easy for people to realize their creativity, or making it difficult. We want to make it easy. Therefore, the government will give individuals greater freedom to govern their own lives without interference from politicians and bureaucrats. The government will simplify laws and regulations and remove unnecessary and curious prohibitions and injunctions. Less bureaucracy, regulation and lower taxes lead to power being decentralised. People with creativity and desire for action must be given greater arms. Individuals must feel safe inside and outside their own home. Security is important for the basic freedom of most people. That is why everyday crime must be combated. Society must respond clearly to crime and take seriously the threat of organised crime. Through a modern and efficient police force, the government will strengthen preparedness and operational capacity to combat crime. The government will ensure that the country is equipped to deal with future crises. The government will increase its efforts to strengthen security and preparedness. The implementing power must be repatriated. It will provide the basis for a safer society. The government will secure the welfare state in the future. Good welfare services for those who need it are fundamental in our society and not least in order for people who need a new chance and new opportunities to get it. A good social safety network shall ensure equal opportunities for all. In Norway, we have a high level of employment. A job to do is important for personal development. It provides a stable income and social participation. With many jobs, funding for welfare schemes is getting stronger and safer. Good health and care services when the need arises create security. Today, many people wait unnecessarily long, or get too poor a care offer. People who get sick for a long time are at risk of falling out of work. Waiting for treatment creates insecurity. The government will therefore carry out a major reform of the health system. Patients’ rights must be strengthened and the individual should be given the right to free choice of treatment. This will ensure that patients do not stand in line when there is free capacity of private and non-profit actors. The government will raise those sitting at the bottom of the health care table first: addicts and people with mental disorders. Health businesses shall be required to give higher priority to these patient groups. The government will develop a care sector that is more characterised by quality and activity. The last years of life must have a meaningful content, including for the elderly affected by dementia and other suffering. Measles in their own lives must be given greater emphasis, including: through increased efforts to rehabilitate. Our society has well-developed welfare systems. Most of us have access to the services we need, but there is a lot that can get better. The government will seal the holes in the security network for groups that are currently falling through. This includes ensuring more equivalent conditions for children growing up in poor families. Several adults who lack basic skills need to be offered literacy training. The welfare systems have been extended for many years and under a changing political majority. Nevertheless, there are still people who do not get the help they need and who experience great difficulties and problems. The supply of drugs and mental health needs to be strengthened, and children in the care of children and young people under drug treatment need to be guaranteed a well-adapted education provision. The government will build the country by providing better competitiveness for business. An essential prerequisite for this is an efficient, high-quality infrastructure. The government will make the necessary investments to realise a high level of infrastructure investment. New instruments shall be used to speed up and improve the efficiency of their deployment. Norway needs a rapid and comprehensive development of both road and rail networks, with a particular focus on the main road network and effective links between the parts of the country. It will create new housing and labour market regions and is crucial for future growth. A strong collective effort will enable cities to grow and climate change emissions to decline. The government will strengthen local democracy by implementing a local reform. With larger and more robust municipalities, more tasks and more responsibility can be transferred to the municipalities. The ability of the county council to review local public-elected assemblies must be limited. The government will also review the tasks of county, county and state authorities with a view to giving more power and authority to more robust municipalities. Greater freedom to find locally adapted solutions will enhance the quality of welfare services. The government will also change the income system so that municipalities retain a greater share of the value creation where values are created. Climate change and sustainable development lie as a sky above these challenges and are an important part of the value platform also enshrined in the Cooperation Agreement. In 1872, twelve years before parliamentarianism was introduced, Johan Sverdrup said: "In the moment that all power and power are gathered here in this hall for the determination of the highest and most important matters of society, there is a great awakening beyond the land; there can no longer be ruled without the great thing that must be ruled by the great thing." [[...]] I'm a little in doubt that it will lead to a great revival all over the country, but it will undoubtedly lead to a greater interest in what is happening in this room. Right will invite you to cooperate. We will help to ensure that new ideas and better solutions are not shot down because you have the wrong batch needle on the coat. We need to make decisions that matter – not just to our generation, but to future generations. Then we have to cooperate and take all the proposals seriously. We're happy to catch up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e401	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e404	First, I would like to congratulate the representative of Greece on his new position as parliamentary leader of the Right. I noticed that Greece in its post held personal freedom highly, and there are known tones from the Right. The aim of greater freedom for individuals is also an objective of the Workers' Party, and there are several things in the government platform that actually point in that direction, with the development of health services and the strengthening of the social security network as two key actions. Personal freedom and being able to have one's own life and body are two sides of the same thing. Therefore, I wonder how the Right could put the personal freedom and the patient's interests in second order by agreeing that PCs should be able to reserve themselves against referring women to abortion.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e409	Thank you for your congratulations. It's been a few years since we worked with the Finnish Law, when Helga Pedersen was the county rapporteur and I was the case rapporteur for it. But it is nice to meet again in this way – also in Stortinget. Reservation law is part of the agreement concluded between the Right, Christian People's Party and the Advance Party. We have said very clearly that the doctors' conscience must be allowed to decide this, but of course it should not affect the women who seek advice on abortion. It simply means that the doctors who have chosen to make a reservation — this is to be done in cooperation with the Medical Association — will have to be included in a list that allows patients who do not want to make use of this decision-maker to actually be offered a different one. We also know that very many people go directly to the hospital to get the abortion operation carried out, and that practice will of course continue. For the individual, this should not be a problem, but for the doctor who wants to make a reservation, the conscience should be allowed to prevail.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e416	I noticed the invitation from the Right parliamentary leader to live debate and real decisions in the Storting. Of course, we appreciate that. On the radio this morning we heard the representative Tetzschner from the Right responding to what he thought were people who lacked popularism by sending many e-mails to the Right, just in response to the proposal for reservation rights for PCs. Can the Right parliamentary leader understand that people who voted in the right and who heard the Right in the election campaign say that they would not introduce such a right of reservation, now give expression to this? My other question is: Will the Right ensure that the Storting gets this case processed?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e428	The representative Tetzschner can answer for himself, but I think he shares an experience with a lot of others in this house; that we have received the message, it has been received, and we have got it about. 200-300-400-500 times in the same form. Then it is allowed to say that now I have received this e-mail, now I do not necessarily want to receive so many more. That doesn't mean that we don't respect those who have a different view of this, and I understand very well that there will also be shared opinions on this issue in the Right. The main thing is that, as far as we know, there are quite a few doctors in Norway who want to make a reservation for reasons of conscience. We think that they should be allowed to do so, but it should not be at the expense of the girls who want assistance for abortion. Therefore, this should not be a major problem, because there are very few doctors, and everyone should be entitled to an offer – which they must of course receive – regardless of the decision they have.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e433	I would also like to congratulate Mr Trond Helleland on his new important tasks. We've had the pleasure of sitting on the same committee and working on municipal matters. Now we're both going into new problems, and I'm going to have the privilege of working with family and culture myself. It is then natural to ask a question related to family policy, because I have positive expectations for the new government in terms of family policy. Then I think not only about cash support and such important reforms, but also that we can fix some of the errors that the red-green parties have made. I just want to point out in one area: if we look at the budget that the red-greens have now presented, they have, among other things, Nearly undeleted state grant for prevention of family protection. My simple question is, What can families expect of the new government?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e440	Thank you for that, Mr Becquerad. It will be exciting to launch this family policy together. This is also well mentioned in the cooperation agreement of which the Christian People's Party is part. Our main point – and I think the Christian People's Party will share it – is that we must trust the individual family. Each family makes choices based on their individual assumptions. Each family knows best where the shoe prints. Taking the family seriously, I think the most important difference between this and the previous government, where the policy has been that it is better for politicians to decide than for the family to decide. When we come to preventive family protection, it is clear that this is a matter that will be discussed, and we obviously have a common interest in strengthening the role of the family, and in ensuring that families can stay together if that is the basis for it. That's why family protection is important. I expect that the representative, Mr Becquerad, will have the full opportunity to discuss this in the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e449	One of the most important points of the cooperation agreement between the Left, the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Advance Party is that during this period we should strengthen the content of the climate agreement. Nevertheless, the government of its government platform does not think that climate change, which is our generation's biggest task, should be one of the eight areas of government's activity. Then my question will be: will the government and government parties follow up the strengthening of climate reconciliation with concrete policies and be a driver of a more offensive climate policy, or will we have the situation, to which the representative of Greece also referred by quoting Johan Sverdrup, that all power lies in this room, and that the Left must have a task of being a driver and ensuring that the government parties follow up this with concrete and offensive policies?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e456	Now we've been confronted many times with that climate was not one of the eight main goals, but the answer to that is really very simple: this is part of the value base that the four parties agreed on in the Nydalen. It is in a way a tribute to the Left and Christian People's Party that we have this as a base in the cooperation we are now entering into, and I expect that the representative Elvesuen – both in this Chamber and in good dialogue with the government parties – will have the full opportunity to influence and strengthen climate policy. It is in our interest as much as in the interests of the other parties that we can achieve the climate goals that Norway has committed itself to. It is just to look at traffic with the offensive collective effort to which it is added, where the four parties before the elections also made progress to build the Fornebuban, to have a T-Bahn tunnel under Oslo – there are many important climate measures in many sectors that we are going to agree on.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e463	First, I would like to congratulate Greece on its new position. We have met in different contexts for eight years, and it is also exciting to discuss policy in this context. In Stortinget, the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party have made it clear before the election that one does not agree with the foreclosure of municipalities. The government announces a broad agreement on a new municipal structure. Prime Minister Solberg said in the election campaign that forced is the end station of a long process. Does the Right feel inclined to carry out such a profound reform with hardly any plurality in the Stortinget, and will the Government settle for the coercion of municipalities before an invitation to debate in the Stortinget? Will the representative of Greece initiate such clarification?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e470	I hope the representative of Navarsete has read the agreement and the platform well. There is a lot that I know that the Central Party inside seems to be a good policy, namely to give greater power to the municipalities and to delegate power and authority from the state and state to the municipalities. With regard to the municipal reform, we have said very clearly that we first need to look at the tasks a municipality should have – i.e. the division of tasks, the ability to create robust and strong municipalities initially, and to give municipalities greater responsibilities, greater opportunities to implement policies, unless involvement by the state and less of inter-municipal companies that hover slightly between the levels of government. When that task distribution is ready, the Storting must sit down and choose principles for how this is to be done. Therefore, it is wrong to start drawing the map, and it is wrong to determine whether to force it or not. We first have to agree on the division of problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e479	I think the burden of receiving 500 e-mails is considerably less than the burden of meeting his doctor's moral condemnation in a very vulnerable situation. There is a perspective that the representative of Greece does not now have, but that the Right has had until recently, and it says the following to read on the Right's website under the heading "Moral debates out of the Medical Office": ‘The perspective of patients must be ahead of medical attention’. and that ‘this disagreement must be taken into the public room, not by the individual physician in relation to each patient’. It doesn't say right now. Now the Prime Minister says that this is too important a matter to reduce to women's cause. We in SV believe that this is a matter for women, and therefore we have made a proposal that ensures that this is dealt with in Stortinget. The right-wing representatives shall also take a decision. So my simple question to Greece is: Will the Right, as they have tradition, free its representatives in this matter, or will the parliamentary leader of Greece use partisanism to secure a 'deal' with the Christian People's Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e494	Now I've gone off as a whipper, so the whip is left to another person in the Right Group. But it is clear that when three parties in an obligatory agreement sign a document that says that one wants to look at this with the right of reservation in cooperation with the Lege Association, there is an agreement we want to stick to. The representative Serigstad Valen should be familiar with the ability to make compromises through an eight-year cohabitation in government with the Workers' Party and the Center Party, and so will it be for the Right. Many of our primary positions are now boiled into compromises, and that will be the way forward. When it comes to setting representatives free, the Right has had a tradition of doing so with regard to the question of self-determined abortion. Then there has been a matter for the individual's personal conscience. But here we're talking about some doctors who want to exercise their conscience by being able to reserve. The most important thing is that this is given a frame-up that allows all women to receive a fully-fledged offer of abortion if desired.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e501	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e504	On 9 September, the Norwegian people went to the polls to choose a new big deal. The result of this election was that there was a historic uprising about the non-socialist parties. Throughout the election campaign, these four parties, on the civil side, had promised the voters that if there were a majority of the Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party, this would lead to a change of government. When the election result was finally clear, these parties did exactly what they had promised their voters: they sat together to see if it was possible to explore an opportunity for a common government of all the parties, or whether it was natural that someone – not all – went on to discuss a government platform. As we are all familiar with today in this room, a conclusion was reached after these experiments were avoided: a historical cooperation agreement was agreed between the four parties, but a minority government would be formed by the Right and the Advance Party. The negotiated agreement between the four parties is in many ways a historical document, all the time it is probably the first time that a Norwegian minority government has such a clear and comprehensive agreement with other parties in the Stortinget and is not itself in government. The agreement is not exhaustive in any way, but provides a basis for how one will work, and not least what policy one will pursue in certain areas. The government of Stoltenberg then filed its removal request on 14 October, and the new government was appointed on 16 October. Some ask themselves if this shift will really get something to say for the individual's everyday life. The answer to this is a roaring yes. There will be a new course with a new government based on the political parties that are now in government. However, it is clear that this is a minority government. This implies the return of political power to the work to be done here in Stortinget, after eight years with a clear red-green majority in government, where it has been clear that most of the issues and decisions had been dealt with – and almost read and adopted – before they arrived at the Stortinget. This will no longer be the case. In this regard, it is tempting to do as my colleague Trond Helleland and quote from Johan Sverdrup spoke from 1872 about the so-called state council case, where he said: "At the moment that all power and power are gathered here in this hall for the purpose of determining the highest and most important matters of society, there is a great awakening beyond the land." [[...]] I think I agree with the representative of Greece that I am a little uncertain about – no matter what party that had stood by the power and how to make the decisions – the awakening had been so great, and there would probably still have been considerable criticism from the population in a number of cases. And that's what it's supposed to be, because we're in a democracy, and then listening to the people is very important. But this quote should not be interpreted from my side so that everything is now to be decided here in Stortinget, because this is also the government's attitude to want to convey and transfer authority to the municipalities. It is precisely in this that you want to come up with a new municipal reform. Then it is important to start at the right end and first look at what kind of authority the municipalities should have. What kind of tasks do you want each municipality to be able to decide and have decisive authority over? What tasks should you be able to move from the county to a municipality? I think most of us have seen that, as a result of the interaction reform at this time, there are a lot of municipalities that have problems with competence. We've seen it in child protection and in a number of other areas. If a new and more efficient municipal structure is to be established, the focus is on the provision of services to citizens. There is no doubt that, in the case of municipal borders, an important factor today is precisely what the individual receives — and the quality of the offer — which may depend on this structure. As I said, we see this both within the area of child protection, the cooperation reform, etc. Furthermore, the government also makes it visible through its platform that it wishes to provide the municipalities with this decision-making authority in order to put in place the necessary competences. This will require larger municipalities, because some municipalities today are too small to be able to provide the services that the municipality's citizens need and that they will require in the future. Within a number of areas of this government platform, people are being taken seriously. It shows through the platform the policy to be pursued, the focus of individuals, and the desire to implement a simpler everyday life for most people. You want to create security for the family, you want to create that security through, among other things. to ensure that the individual has a job, while clearly stating that a social network should also be established that captures the part of the population that falls outside this. Furthermore, industrial policy is very important for this government. It is important that we make sure that the founder, and those who have the ideas out there, have the opportunity to realize this, and that the time spent at that time, both on their own and on the part of others, is used to create jobs, create values, that we ensure that we do not spend undue time on reporting, on forms, that we do not impose these entrepreneurial tasks that are not necessary. In this context, the factor relating to the role of the public also comes into play. The role of the public must be facilitated. The role of the public should also be to control, but we must not intervene unnecessarily in the everyday life of the individual to be inhibited by it. Tax policy is then also very important, because this government has announced that it will make fiscal changes in the budget that come, and that is not because it wants to create problems for people. This is exactly the opposite: you want to change the tax system so that you can keep a little more of your own income – not of your country's money, but keep a little more of your own income to spend as you want. One wants to change the inheritance tax – of course – because that type of tax does not belong anywhere in Norwegian society, and the government has notified it. The same applies to the point of entry in the property tax. It has to change, because today we have a tax system that prevents us from creating values, and that is not necessarily for the benefit of society. In a reply with signed and Trond Helleland, the representative referred to Stoltenberg among others. to the regional health establishments. Yes, it is true that regional health companies were set up very quickly — yes, at least they thought so, because it actually went one and a half to two years before an opening balance was established for these health businesses. You might have done it a little too quickly, and it created big problems at first. That's why we have to make sure in this field that we do things in the right order. We need to put in place the national health plan, and then you can start working on cutting down regional health businesses. One wants a transport commitment with this government, but we also need to take into account that the outgoing government has spent eight months putting forward a government budget, and then one must also respect that one needs a little more than three weeks to present one's own overall budget. Therefore, something will take a little longer, but this government is going to deliver, I am absolutely sure of that. Then, in conclusion – and that is one of the most important things in my article – I would like to invite all parties to go together and try to create a majority for the major reforms. It is important that these reforms can be sustained by different governments. This government is going to sit for a long time, but more parties may want to join in the long term, and then everything has to stand by.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e540	It will be a line change – the representative Helga Pedersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e543	Thank you for that, President! Let me also congratulate the representative, Mr Nesvik, on a new and important task! It is probably more than I have noticed that there is a slight difference in the way the Progress Party expressed itself in the opposition, and now, after being given the government power. This applies both to the way things are said, and not least to the content of the policy. I want to start by commending the Progress Party for the fact that many of the bargains have been put on the stable, and that immigration is now seen as a good, as a source of economic growth, and that you join the climate agreement, the pension agreement, the rule of action, and that the Sameting will continue to exist. I believe it is a strength for Norway that there is a cross-political consensus on the broad lines in these important policy areas. But my question to the representative Nesvik is: Has the Progress Party changed its mind in all these important policy areas, or has it promised more in the election campaign than what you knew could be held?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e554	The progress party got 16.3 pst. at autumn selection – 83,7 pst. did not vote for us. Then it's the way to be part of a cooperation, and that should be the Workers' Party after some years in that situation. The policy of the Progress Party is firm, but when we are to have these things implemented, it must be done in cooperation with other parties. This underlying platform is a very good working document that goes in the direction the Progress Party wants, and I am very pleased with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e559	I have a great deal of understanding that in a government you have to give and take, but not even in the most optimistic moments of the election campaign could the Progress Party have provided for a pure majority. Yet, when you promised things, you did not have much to do with it. Then it's also a little surprising that even in some areas where we know that the Right Party and the Advance Party are in agreement, nuclear materials have been negotiated. This applies, for example: The equity requirement, and I would like to say for my part that I think it is positive that you do not propose to put down the county council, that the paperwork is in place, and that the Nynorsk subject is in place. But now there are many who are very excited about the state budget: can we expect the Right and the Advance Party to keep the promises of significantly more money for hospitals, significantly more money for faster roads, and significantly more money for the police, as promised in the election campaign?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e568	Then I just want to remind you that this government that has now joined has been sitting for six days. So those who made the last government, based on the red-green parties, have spent eight months providing a budget. So now you sit and do your best to look at what kind of space you have – how can you turn this money into the sector that's so important to us. It's going to look at the results of when that proposition is presented in this room as an additional proposition. Then the representative Helga Pedersen and the undersigned will have more than enough time to discuss the different areas of activity. In this connection, I would also like to repeat a little to the representative Helga Pedersen: Throughout the election campaign – no matter where I was, I was met with questions about where it has been made by the net pay system for seafarers and lifting the roof. It has suddenly disappeared from the government's budget. It says you'll get back to it. So I think you're going to go a little bit by yourself.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e577	The Christian People’s Party was very pleased with the wording of the cooperation agreement on the maintenance of the ‘Agricultural Institute of Agreements’, and with the emphasis on predictability and increased profitability. However, we were less satisfied with the government platform – in particular the proposal to remove the obligation to live, to exercise the right to vote and to cut transfers to agriculture. But right-wing politician Svein Flötten has assured the newspapers Nations that the changes will take place gradually, and that it is only when profitability increases that transfers will be reduced. Does the Progress Party agree with the Right in this?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e586	In the agricultural agreement, there is a variety of measures and support schemes. What is now a priority on the part of the Progress Party, and what the Minister for Agriculture has said, is to look at all these schemes. How can you simplify them, look at the structures that lie there, make them more effective, so that the farmer can get more for what he produces and sells to the individual customer? How can we achieve more competition in the sector? All of this we have to get back to, and the representative Andersen Eide will have a very good opportunity to discuss these matters. As far as the agricultural sector is concerned, it is intended first to look at efficiency and transfers, and then to return to the rest at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e595	In the Norwegian people, there is great opposition to EU membership. Norway's relationship with the EU is also an important theme for this room – for our People's Rule. The government has made relations with the EU and the EEA a domestic issue by raising it to the Prime Minister's office with its own State Council there. My question is: why has this government – unlike the three previous governments – left behind a point in the government statement that the government will not apply for EU membership without delivering a removal request? Has the Progress Party with this opened up so that the government can actually submit such an application during the period?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e602	The Progress Party takes seriously the fact that the people have said through referendums that they will not be members of the European Union, and we respect the people.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e607	I thank Mr T. Nesvik for his speech and take the opportunity to congratulate him on his position as parliamentary leader of the Progress Party. To the question: Norway is poor in entrepreneurship, innovation and the number of start-ups of enterprises. The left is concerned that the social rights of self-employed people are so weak or deficient that it becomes more tempting to be employees than to bet yourself. The Progress Party has previously supported the Left in the need for a comprehensive review of the terms and conditions of individual undertakings. In the Health Declaration, there are rising rates of simplification of legislation, but we cannot see what to do to strengthen the social rights of self-employed people. The real question is: is it that the Progress Party in the Government will not do anything about it, or can we now expect the necessary initiatives to be taken to improve the social rights of self-employed people?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e618	It can be expected and it is also clearly on the platform that, in the case of self-employed workers, in particular entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized enterprises, which actually represent more than 99 pst. by industry in Norway, they also need a safety net. The policy pursued here will ensure that the framework conditions for these businesses are properly maintained. It is about bureaucracy and the use of time, in which all types of action will be assessed. What the representative himself mentioned in his statement will certainly also be considered.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e624	There will be many congratulations today, but congratulations – as I read in the newspaper – on perhaps the most important job for the government over the next four years. In any case, I believe that the representative will have exciting future times. After all, we have come into this situation, whether we like it or not, that the Progress Party will have a decisive impact on Norway's climate policy in the coming years, and most importantly by having the three most important positions of the State Council on climate policy alongside the Minister of Environment: the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Oil and Energy and the Minister of Transport. Fortunately, it is not the Progress Party’s programme, but the Cooperation Agreement and the Government Declaration to govern. There's a lot of good things about strengthening politics. However, the decisions that have an impact on climate policy go far beyond what is mentioned there: in fiscal policy and budget, in priorities in transport and in allocation rounds in the Ministry of Oil and Energy. Can the representative of Nesvik confirm that the Progress Party will strengthen climate policy in its day-to-day work in the government of the three departments?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e633	The President would like to remind you that posts in the Chamber are to be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e636	As far as climate policy is concerned, it is clear from the platform that the agreed climate agreement will be respected. The Progress Party actually wanted to participate in that work in its time, but the then government parties kept the Advance Party out of that opportunity. There are several things in the platform that have to do with strengthening climate policy. It can be done, among other things: on the environmental technology issue. It's very important that we move on. But perhaps the most important work done in this context is that we use the tools that actually work, that we don't go in for the kind of projects that, among other things, work. CO2 cleaning and the so-called moon landing in Mongstad, which has cost Norwegian taxpayers very many billions, because they have made their own performance project and have not seen what could actually have been done differently. Yes, in fact, the Progress Party is going to see what works and put the policy out of it every day.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e648	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e651	I want to start my post by congratulating the new staging president. I look forward to working under his leadership. I can address it so that I look forward to working under your leadership, President. After the election, Stortinget experiences a new spring. After eight years of multi-territorial government, we are told that the Stortinget will once again be the venue for negotiation, change and improvement of government's many proposals in different matters. It will provide a new dynamics and a new option for Stortinget. Trond Helleland has already quoted Johan Sverdrup – 'all power in this hall'. When one is about to sneak up on politics and government depends on ensuring multiple numbers for all issues in Stortinget, the significance of Stortinget as the political arena will naturally change. That is what I think is positive for democracy. After the decision-making process, the parliamentary situation has changed. We've got a minority government of the Right and the Advance Party, and a collective center is once again a power factor in the Storting -- it gives exciting possibilities. When I spoke to the Christian People's Party national meeting in ours, I said the following: ‘The KrF will contribute to a non-socialist pluralisation of the country’s non-socialist government. We want to go into open conversations with the other opposition parties to clarify the basis for a new government. What matters is politics. The conclusion will therefore depend on the relationship of strength between the parties and, above all, on the political platform and the party’s pervasiveness.’;» The Christian People's Party has followed the recipe and fulfilled our promises. Now it is our job to use the position in Stortinget to put our stamp on the policy we shall adopt. The framework for cooperation with the government is the cooperation agreement; the agreement in which the Christian People's Party and the Left have taken effect on a number of issues and regulates how we should be a constructive opposition party. The cooperation agreement between the two government parties and the Christian People's Party and the Left gives commitments and opportunities to influence all parties. The agreement secures two things: the country gets a governing government, and the Christian People's Party and the Left get a key position in the Stortinget. The results of the elections and the experiments give the Christian People's Party an effect over the next four years. Yes, we've actually achieved more in two to three weeks than one achieved in the last eight years with a red-green plural government. The Christian People's Party made choices about family and human dignity. Now families get greater freedom of choice and flexibility. Cash support is strengthened and will be reintroduced for two-year-olds. We set limits and make political choices that stop the journey towards a sorting society. The Christian People's Party and the Left secure the protection of the vulnerable areas outside of Lofoten, the West Pole and Senja. We have concrete measures to help children living in poor families in our own country. We have put in place an agreement to ensure a lasting change in which child-care assessment should be strengthened in the assessment of asylum-seekers, and a one-time solution for long-term-building children and their families from countries with a return agreement. We are confident that the lines of Norwegian alcohol policy will be firm. We have certain knowledge of our Christian cultural heritage in the school. We have been able to enforce the statutory right to day-to-day care and care for the introduction during this four-year period. And not least, we have been able to implement an offensive climate policy and strengthen the climate agreement on which it is based. The government platform testifies to the fact that we have received a government that will both listen and learn. Christian Folkparti has noted several good things in the government platform, and it is impossible to identify all. However, I would like to draw up some things that we see as very positive. The new government says: They will reform care pay and care allowance schemes for parents with sick and disabled children, as a follow-up to the Kaasa Selection. The government says they will keep the general rule for the environment law. The new government will make user-driven personal assistance – BPA – a right. The government will increase the one-time benefit of birth and adoption. They will enable more people to benefit from the provision of childcare space and SFO through differentiated parental payments. The new government also says that it will build family protection policies around the principle of prevention and early efforts to ensure good growth conditions. The new government states that it will set up a stepping-up plan for the drug field and reintroduce the rule that drugs and mental health protection — individually — will have an annual growth rate in each health enterprise that is higher than for somatics. The new government says that it should rapidly expand and purchase out-of-care facilities, ensure back-up protection from the first day after the end of detoxification and treatment, supplemented by other relief measures. One also says that one should ensure that the internal right of self-determination should be effective in all belief and life-view societies. From this point of view, I look forward very much to the cooperation with the new government. Norwegian development policy is an expression that Norway is not itself enough. We take international responsibility. As one of the richest countries in the world, we have better opportunities to contribute than almost all other countries in the world. Therefore, Norway must take a lead in the fight against international poverty. Firstly, Norway must have a more coherent development policy, where trade and investment also contribute more strongly to the development objectives. The new large majority now opens up funds from the Oil Fund to a new investment programme to create development in poor countries. This is a step forward after the red-green have voiced such proposals in the Storting. The establishment of aid policy can also be more results-oriented. That's good, and that's important. The 1 pst target for Norwegian development assistance is strong. This has been an important arrow for a number of years. Since Norway no longer has its own Minister of Development for the first time in thirty years, the aid budget will be an important testament to whether this is also an expression of weak international solidarity. From the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I will follow the Minister of Foreign Affairs with an argus eye and ensure that development policy is not neglected. The Christian People's Party will also give priority to climate as one of the most important areas of activity. We would have liked it to be included among the eight most important issues of the government platform. At the same time, I am happy and relieved to see that there is a lot of good and recognisable climate and environmental policy in the government statement. The baselines of climate policy are firm. I am pleased that the government will pursue an offensive climate policy and not least that they say so clearly that they will strengthen the climate agreement. I mention the Lofoten, the Vesterålen and Senja earlier – that these areas should be oil-free. I am pleased that we are going to increase our commitment to renewable energy, environmental technologies and research. Climate policy will be high on the international agenda for this enlargement period. The Christian People's Party expects Norway to be an active driver in international climate negotiations and to contribute to a strong, international and binding agreement. With a new government, the current agricultural situation is far better than the picture that was drawn before the election. We have a minority government that has signed an agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left that the contract institute should be carried forward, that policy should be prudent, and that one should have an increase in the salary of agriculture. In addition, the government needs to search for the Biggest in order to have a plurality of changes in agricultural policy, and the Christian People's Party and the Left will be the first at the negotiating table. The Christian People's Party will work for good central politics and will cooperate with everyone who wants to contribute to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e735	Then the president would like to thank you for a nice greeting. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e740	It was rust. After the next election it becomes 'every time'. There are many common values between the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. We also have many common positions. Therefore, there was great amazement in my party when the Christian People's Party chose to open up to the Progress Party at the national meeting last year. But it's done. Now the Right Party government is in place – unfortunately. Today we have seen two examples of invitations to community reform, both from the Right and the Advance Party. The Central Party and the Christian People's Party have traditionally been united and focused on district policy, on small municipalities, and have seen that in some places in Norway it is wise that the municipalities are smaller, in other places it is wise that the municipalities are larger, and that people are most satisfied in the small municipalities. Will the Christian People's Party follow the tradition they have stood in and see that we need both small and large municipalities in Norway, and that having a great forced reform from Oslo would be unwise for the country we are to rule?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e751	I believe that looking at the tasks of Kommune-Noreg today is both natural and entirely correct. At the Christian People's Party national meeting, I went to a small loss as a party leader. I wanted to keep the municipal structure. What I experienced was that there were municipal politicians from all over the country who said, "The tasks we have don't fit with the municipal structure that lies there today. I'm absolutely serious about that. What I think is very good about what the new government has been so clear about, is that the government wants to get a broad political cooperation on a problem issue that I believe the great majority in this room sees. We are forced to look at the problem. I think that that kind of decision will stand, it's important to make a big deal. I look forward to working with the Center Party on that. The centre party has great competence in this field. I agree with one thing that the representative Schlagsvold Vedum says: there is no solution to what is a proper municipality, but I believe that such a process is absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e761	I understand this is the big day of congratulations, so I would also like to congratulate Knut Arild Hareide as still the parliamentary leader. I'm sure he's safe here. The Christian People's Party, as the representative Hareide said in his statement, has concluded a cooperation agreement with the three other parties on the civil side. We see that there is a clear picture of the Christian People's Party's policy in that agreement. Important themes such as cash support, reservation rights and increased one-off support are just testifying about it. The volunteers too have a lot of focus on the Christian People's Party. In the election campaign, in particular, the pension obligations of non-profit organisations working in the health and social field were a topic. I find nothing about it in the agreement. Does this mean that it is down priority, or does it mean that the Christian People’s Party expects the government to implement those promises now?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e768	There are many things that are not in the partnership agreement of the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Government Party. It is quite right, as the representative Aasrud says, that we have been very concerned with just voluntary, non-profit actors and the possibility they should have. A great injustice for many ideal actors is that, in order to be part of what is called public provision, they have taken on large pension obligations in the 1960s, 1970s and 1980s. This has led to a disadvantage in competing with commercial operators. This is an important matter that we have not forgotten. We have also discussed this in the experiments in the Nydalen, without having landed on a solution. This is a challenge because we want to have a healthy and good competition. In that case, non-profit actors must also be able to compete in the same way as others. The pension obligations they carry in their luggage from 20 to 30 years ago make it very difficult.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e774	Since it is the day of congratulations, I would like to take the opportunity to congratulate Hareide as a father and as a parliamentary leader. The Left, Christian People's Party, the Advance Party and the Right have concluded a cooperation agreement. On one point, the Left is not a party to the agreement, and it concerns the right of reservation. When I went down here today, I passed Egertorget. There's a little sign with information about Katti Anchor Møller. She was one of those who established the first mother hygiene office in Norway, in Oslo. She was a champion of the Children's Act, the Child's Rights and the Prevention Guide. The Christian People's Party wants to give doctors access to reserve themselves against referring. An important part of the first line of healthcare services is just to refer and guide. Here I understand that the conscience is important to the Christian People's Party. But is not this agreement to make conscience more important than next love?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e781	No, I'm strongly disagreed with that idea. It is not that health care will be poorer for those who need it. One has had such a reservation possibility. From the 1970s until 2011 it has been a practice confirmed by the Health Directorate in several rounds. This was a practice that worked very well. I'm sure we'll find solutions when the government sits down with the Medical Association. We will find good solutions to this, also to safeguard the freedom of conscience. We will be able to meet many ethical challenges in the future. I think we have to be so liberal about important ethical issues that you have to have different visions. This has found a practical and good solution for it. I'm sure we'll find such solutions in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e786	SV and the Christian People's Party have been the strongest drivers of climate policy and the world's poor. Hareide mentioned seabed and bedtime instead. I wonder if he might need it as soon as he's been involved in putting in the Advance Party, which has virtually no ambitions in terms of climate, environment, aid and agriculture in the government. Together with the red-green government, the Christian People's Party has achieved the 1 pst goal. It must be a nose thief when the first government does, is to remove the Minister of Development as the Christian People's Party established. It was very good that they did it. The government is now downgrading development aid to a very general case, in line with everyone else, and the new foreign minister today says to NTB that it is not so important that we give a tidal tidal tidal annuity to the world's poor. Can Hareide now guarantee that the 1 pst target will be achieved once we have dealt with the budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e791	I'm in complete agreement. SV and the Christian People's Party have been united, both on climate and on the world's poor. But there must be a paradox for SV that when the Progress Party comes into government, it is possible to strengthen the climate agreement. So it's going to be a strong climate equation when the Progress Party chooses to join the government. So to the question of the Development Minister's post. Yes, the Christian People's Party has been critical that we do not get our own Minister of Development, just as we were critical that the Red-Green Government did not choose to have its own Minister of Development in the period when Erik Solheim was both Minister of Environment and Development. So we didn't have our own full-time development minister. That's the capacity, the time a user on this, which is important for the Christian People's Party. I can be very clear about this: if something is going to be important to us, it is, among other things. to make sure we get 1 pst. for international assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e798	The Central Party and the Christian People's Party have a lot of common history in terms of aid policy, even when the Minister of Aid was established – then with the Right. It's a common proud story. In the eight years we have run with the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party, we have managed to increase the aid budget every year and reach the goal of 1 pst. of GNI for assistance. This is something we are proud of – what the Christian People's Party pointed out was too little in connection with the budget last fall, while the Right and Advance Party wanted to go the other way. Now there is a draft budget of 1 p.m. GNI goes to aid. That proposal is unproblematic for the Christian People's Party to enter into. Is it more important for the Christian People’s Party to deal with the cooperation agreement than to deal with the world’s poorest? I hope the Christian People's Party will vote in favour of the poorest and that they will also contribute to raising aid in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e803	When the new government makes its proposal on 8 December, it would be natural for the government parties to contact the Left and Christian People's Party to sit down and discuss what the 2014 budget will be like. We have secured that possibility – that it is to the Left and the Christian People's Party that the government comes first. We're busy sitting down with the government to get through to the Christian People's Party's policies. I believe that in the conversations we have had, it has become clear just how important assistance is for the Christian People's Party. I think the government as it is now, knows that. So let's see what they're putting forward. But I'm sure that the presentation and the processes we're going to have here in Stortingen will ensure that there is a clear prioritisation of the world's poor. It's going to be Christian People's Party to make sure.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e810	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e813	First, I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to congratulate the new government on an important task for the country and on the plurality that they have established here in the United Kingdom through a cooperation agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left. The new government takes over a country in good condition. They also assume a great responsibility for the lives of individuals in Norway. In line with the core of the Central Party's administrative ideology, we left the country to the new government in better condition than it was when we got it. The centre party has a selection contract to fulfill. It's no less important that we have a government change. We chose to use nature so that our descendants have the same possibilities that we've had. Nature is the basis for jobs and value creation, and for solutions to the climate crisis. We want Norway to produce food for our own people. We'll work for older people to stay healthy longer and have good and meaningful working days either to work longer, to stay home even if they're in a state of health or to have a place in a nursing home when they need it. Road and path must bind the country closer together. The distance between people and markets must be shorter. These are issues that we have had a clear impact on, together with the Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party, and built a good budget every year. The basic principle of our policy is that people should be able to control their own everyday lives. Local democracy is a berebel. People must have real freedom of choice. Then jobs, housing and equivalent health and care services must be in place throughout the country. For eight years, the Centre Party has had a decisive impact on Norwegian policy. Now we have to be a constructive opposition party. We're going to use our power for the benefit of the whole country. We take our contract with the voters seriously. The central part now stands for the same thing after the choice that we did before the choice. We have also had too much habit in the time we have in government. It may not say whether the government party today, because the government platform that has been set up, and the declaration of accession that we have heard in this Chamber, are superior and little concrete. Take e.g. a single issue: Me, and not least me, who also governed housing policy, were strongly criticised for the increase in the capital requirement. Now we don't hear anything more about the capital requirement or that one should change it – what was one of the big issues with big debates. It's not strange that some people feel a little tricked. We in the Center Party are still going to fight for the issues that are important to us. We're going to fight for the positive development of the country over the last eight years. There is a lot of work to do. Safe governance has given us high employment, low interest rates and a historical growth in innovation and well-being. When the tax lists were published a few days ago, they showed that the economy is good for most people in Norway. The differences between people have been smaller. Growth is distributed throughout the country. The centre party shall work towards the continuation of the social and geographical smoothing process. We have also been a clear voice towards the EU and the northern regions of the red-green government. The centre party has seen its mark on the red-green government and on the whole country. We've worked hard to get ourselves to control our own country. We've been working so that people themselves can choose where they want to live. Then jobs, housing and equivalent health and care services are needed throughout the country. Without it, the so-called "optional" option becomes an empty shell. People also have to know security for their own lives and possessions. This will ensure close-up police, fire services and emergency services that have both local knowledge and short response time. There is little help with good health services and enough police to get help when bad frames are not reached. People will still get help when they need it, no matter where they live and how thick or thin their wallets are. That's the Center Party's goal. Today, after eight years with the Central Party in government, we have the strongest popular development in District Norway in over 30 years. Last year, 300 municipalities in Norway grew in the population. It's a development I'm proud to be on. There are more people who have had better lives and more freedom of choice where they live. People should have real opportunity to bow where they like. Therefore, they must have the freedom of choice to work even if they have small children. Then we need babysitting for everyone. People must have the freedom to live well in the city, but also to move out of town and into a good and exciting job in a smaller place. Optionality is not worth much without security because you get equal health and care services even if you move to a smaller place. Multiple child-restraints allow several small kids and families who wear out to be helped to get their lives back on track. In the care sector, more people who are elderly and are not able to take care of themselves get a better daily life. It also provides relief for relatives, but most importantly: Older and sick people receive better support for living good, meaningful lives. This is what lies in a strengthened local economy. That's this Center Party and the Red-Green government has prioritised every single year for the last eight years. We have given priority to municipalities, we have given priority to district policy. I lack the dimension of rural policy in the government's platform and declaration of accession – it is totally absent. The Ministry of Regional Affairs has been replaced by a Ministry of Renewal. So the regional ministry is away from the department list – there is a lot of symbolism in it. Time will tell you how much real policy there is. There is an important question of how government will ensure freedom of choice and equal conditions for business development, well-being and jobs in large cities, agglomerations and in smaller areas around the country. The centre party uses the whole country. The food and smells that create Christmas spirit and childhood memory don't come of their own. The trip on the snäufjellet and the view towards the fjord will not be the same if we do not have grazing animals that stop tillage. Climate change threatens vegetation and biodiversity both here and in the rest of the world. If farmers and grazing animals also disappear, both the dinner plate and the country can be strikingly different. People should be able to trust that the food they serve their kids is safe. Then we must have enough food, especially in a world of climate change and people's sighs. On the posters of demonstrators in Egypt, it said "bread". Enough food is also important for our preparedness. Norwegian food and food tradition are important to our identity. I am very concerned about the future of Norwegian food production under the new government. The centre party and the red-green government have facilitated a record expansion of renewable energy and for the growth of the greenhouse gas emissions for research and development of climate technologies. We have a great responsibility for those who come after us, and for them to have the same freedom of choice and as good opportunities as we ourselves enjoy. A planet that is not overheated, but has a healthy and strong flora and fauna, is the most important we can pass on. ‘It is expensive to have the right-hand manager on a visit’; sukka Ola Borten Moe after Erna Solberg had visited Trondheim earlier this year: “The last time it cost us 1,000 goals of food soil.” Building housing on good food soil may be cheaper for the builder, but our descendants may pay a high price if we can't produce enough food. The centre party is still to be fought for good food soil not to be destroyed for the benefit of purchasing centres and other short-term objectives. In our time, we have had the pleasure of living. Road, track, and broadband connect the country more closely. Collective action and bets on bicycle and pedestrian fields provide better climate, better air in cities and agglomerations and better public health. We look forward to the government's budget proposal with tension and expectations of increasing road and track frames and reduced toll rates. So it's like the Center Party isn't allergic to community conjugation. Rather, most mergers have been initiated and implemented by central players in recent years. But we're allergic to drawing the Norwegian map in Oslo. The important thing for us is that people are being heard, that people can say their opinion and that they are not being forced into aggregation. I hear that the Right Party and the Progress Party are no longer taking the word ‘force’ in their mouths. They realize that there's a bad taste in the mouth of most people. But until the Right Party and the Progress Party promise to go away from coercion, I will raw municipalities from entering processes that they have so little real power over. People have to say that. I challenge the government to prepare the process before it comes to the Storting with an invitation to a wide discussion about a possible settlement of the municipal structure. We're going into an exciting time. We are entering a time with a new government, which has so far been little concrete in the various policy areas. We are anxiously waiting for things to come to Stortinget, and should be constructive in our opposition role.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e861	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e864	The representative of Navarsete spoke a lot about the atmosphere in agriculture in his speech. I'm glad to tell her that yesterday I talked to a dairy farmer who tried to buy a milk quota, but no one wanted to sell. That means that people have great expectations of the time ahead. The representative of Navarsete, in his former role, has launched a counter-power campaign against Oslo to move power from Oslo to local populace. It can be discussed to what extent power has been moved under the previous government, but now the new government says it wants to move more power out to local people elected and strengthen local democracy. Is the representative of Navarsete happy that the new government is now realizing her dream?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e871	It is the same in the political world that power and money tend to follow. We have seen to it that Norwegian municipalities have had room for action and the ability to manage their own economy. We've halved the number of ROBEK municipalities. We have supported the historical development of welfare services and have helped municipalities to drive industrial development and social development. It's important. I want to move further power out to the municipalities and look forward with excitement to the suggestions that will come. But if the price is that one for the power of a sheep is going to make sure that many of those who today have the power to rule their own municipalities have to give up the power of a peripheral great municipality, I'm not sure if I want to give the municipalities that power.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e881	I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to wish Mr Navarsete's representative a welcome back to Stortinget. There will be four exciting years, and there will be new positions for everyone. I am very pleased that I am now going to work up against a government that has seen local democracy high, and that has seen the trust of individuals, families and communities very high. We are now in a transition between eight years of red-green rule and a new government. I would like to right with the representative Navarsete if she is satisfied with the management of local democracy, private ownership and state scrutiny by the red-green government, and would like to get some comments on how she has experienced these areas over the eight years it has been a red-green government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e888	As I said in my post, let's leave a country, a society, in better condition than we took over. That's what I'm talking about. It has been a strong growth in well-being. There has been strong growth in the number of jobs. There has been a strong growth in the local authorities' room for action in order to perform the services to be provided by municipalities – contrary to the previous four years, when I was a local politician at home in Sogn and Fjordane and we spent much of our time cutting. It is also a form of ripping local democracy, and which is perhaps the most painful for those who throughout the year sit in local government and practice and practice, when they do not have the opportunity to create growth and development. I think we've done both ownership rights and private business in a way that has made us have had the strong growth that we've had. The centre party has both great respect and is very pleased that we have seen clear and large growth in private business in these years.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e895	I recorded that the speaker said that the Senter party was going to run the same policy now as the one you announced before the election. I think that was a little strange, all the time we could read in the VG on October 5th that the representative Navarsete looked until there would now be some things that could be changed – because together with the new government parties, a majority was formed. I have also registered that the Center Party has made its worst choice since the war, and that several forces in the Center Party have now called for better cooperation with the bourgeois side of Norwegian politics. At the same time, I saw that the party leader yesterday said to his government that we should continue the red-green cooperation. We know that, among other things: the rapporteur in Stjørdal – the largest central party municipality – has called for better cooperation with the citizens. So I'd like to think of a deepening: is it that those who make good choices in local politics – of which the Center Party – are now going to have more to say, or are those who are at the centre of the Center Party making a bad choice, who are going to continue their line?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e902	I record in today's newspaper that my next-leaders are at least very pleased with the announcements of their leader, and confirm that there are no plans for the party other than to further develop a good cooperation with our red-green friends, the Labour Party and SV, and to develop good cooperation with all parties – but especially with the centre – in Stortinget to implement the Central Party's policy. It might have been alarming if we didn't. The centre party did not make a good choice. None of the government parties did. This may indicate that the voters wanted a different government, which they also received. But I would also like to remind you that, after working with the Right, the other centre party had a much more bleak destiny in meeting with the voters in 2005 than the Center Party did now. When it comes to what's best for a center party – to cooperate in the right side or in the left side: If you want to do so after you have joined the selectors, we are the ones who have done the best and the right thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e909	On 17 June this year, the Stortinget examined a proposal from the Progress Party to introduce a ROT deduction, after, inter alia, have looked at the experience gained in Sweden after introducing it in 2008. Similar schemes have also been put in place by Denmark and Finland. I registered with interest that the Navarsette in their post was now ready that the Senterpartie believes the same after the election as they meant before the election. But on 17 June, the Central Party voted against the proposal to introduce a ROT deduction, while in the election campaign they were ready and spoke very warmly for a ROT deduction. We know that the new government is ready to investigate a ROT deduction. The question then arises whether the central party believes what they meant before the election, when they voted against it, or whether they will support the government in such an investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e916	We in the Central Party took the proposal for a ROT deduction into our new programme, which is in force from this year's decision. On 17 June we still ruled on the red-green government platform. There was no ROT deduction as a theme – the government didn't include it in its priority areas. But the Central Party national meeting and the Central Party program are ready for us to want a ROT deduction. We therefore look forward with excitement to a proposal from the government on this matter. Then we'll have to discuss the proposal when possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e921	I thought it was very nice that the parliamentary leader had got Life Signe Navarsete as a colleague at Stortinget, and I look forward to cooperation. The Christian People's Party and the Center Party have a lot in common, both in terms of value thinking, district policy and volunteering. I hope we can find a lot of good solutions in the work we're going to do in the next four years. I want to challenge in a specific case where I have experienced a health-policy spokeswoman, Kjersti Toppe, as very good and very clear – in the debate on the right to reserve. My question to Navarsete is, is it so that Kjersti Toppe here speaks on behalf of the whole party? Is there a reason for the good results Kjersti Toppe has in this area? How does Navarsete feel that the Labour Party and SV – even in today's debate – do not regard the right of reservation as a multi-dimensional issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e928	I support Kjersti Toppe's statements and put myself behind them. This is also about a value question for me. I think we agreed on that. I also look forward to a good and close cooperation on important issues, both value issues and other issues where the Christian People's Party and the Center Party stand close together – there are many things. Both the representative Hareide and everyone know that in some areas there will be different views in a government. This is an area where there were different views between the Centre Party, the Labour Party and the SV, which in some other valuables relate to, for example: biotechnology, in which the Centre Party had an impact on areas that are important to us. I fully respect the fact that SV and the Workers' Party have a different view of it than we have – we have lived well with it, and we also live well with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e935	The representative of Navarsete is talking about the Center Party as a center party. Since the red-green government lost the election, both she and other prominent representatives of the Center Party have talked about the need for a strengthened centre of Norwegian politics. The left share the desire for a strong center, but we're wondering about some extreme positions that the Center Party has developed in recent times. On 4 October, the Central Party was outside its judicial spokesperson and invited the Right Party and the Advance Party to introduce beggar bans. The next day, the representative Navarsete himself was outside and invited the same right-wing party to work together to significantly reduce predatory populations. Does the representative of Navarsete think that the external position of justice and environmental policy is a good way to approach the Left and Christian People's Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e942	As I said in my post, the Central Party will be in charge of the Center Party's policy, just as I expect that both the Left and the Christian People's Party will do, and we will also have things where we're not in common. At the same time, there's a historical community between us. We've shared a lot of the same value base. We have provided a policy for the whole country, for districts and agriculture. We have kept the newnorth in claim, and we have had many other important issues, not least related to national and international distribution, where we have had a solidarity. We've arranged for the free man to have opportunities within a good community. All of these common values I hope that we can build on even if we still have a different view in individual matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e947	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e951	I believe that the quality of a persuasion debate can often be measured in how often Sverdrup is mentioned, and in this way this persuasion debate is very well suited. Almost all the parties have certainly been in Sverdrup and the power of this hall. The left hand side was the main choice of the harvest – after the Right hand. Of the big ones, we were the ones that increased most both in percentages and in the number of representatives in the hall here. I must honestly admit that there were not so many who predicted four years ago, but we have managed to run a campaign where we have told what we want to use our power for. What we promised was that a civil majority should give a civil government. We also promised that we would sit down, all four parties, and openly go in and see what we were able to do when the election result was over, but we also said that it was unlikely that we would get to a four-party government. We went open. We couldn't get to a four-party government, but I want to say from this pulpit that the trust and respect between us who negotiated was strengthened by that process. But the gap was a little too big, and the insurances that we as a little sister in a party constellation wanted, it was not possible to get. The left went to the elections without putting the ultimatum in any matter. The reason for this is that I think you get a greater impact if you have room for action in the negotiations on the matters you want to go to the elections. The left went to the election to say that at the top of the block, when we were to negotiate with the other parties, Lofoten, Vesterålen and Senja stood. That is why I am very pleased that we managed to secure it in the cooperation agreement – together with the Mørebanken, Skagerrak, Jan Mayen and the ice edge. It is an important decision – a very important insurance – that I believe has great prospects in it, not only to find alternative ways of feeding in important parts of Norway, but also to be able to get bets on the table other than the high oil dependency we see that the Norwegian economy has. We also reached an agreement saying that the climate agreement should be strengthened, with a strong commitment to public transport. One of the issues on which the Left had an election campaign, namely the deduction of an additional measure in the owner-occupancy, is now within the cooperation agreement. We made a joint agreement in the field of asylum. It was demanding, but it's not like the voters have chosen us just to do the pleasant things. Sitting down and agreeing on the big, difficult things are also important. The main feature of the Left is that we are now going to have a real change in the rules, not just through the viewing via the Storing messages, and that the concept of ‘child-friendly’ is now to be incorporated into the new rules. Another thing left-wing campaign was to get a proper teacher's lift. Now there is a consensus on the civil side – a proper teacher’s promise that is capable of creating career paths for individual teachers, including career paths in standing behind the catheter, in fact teaching through the entire professional career, a teacher’s promise that ensures continuing education and training, but also a teacher’s promise that increases and restores respect for the teaching profession in the Norwegian community. We have been invested in small businesses and start-ups, both in terms of changes in the rules, and in terms of taxes. We have been given a commitment in terms of poverty, which also raises alcohol and psychiatry as much more important areas in the health sector. That means lifting the weakest. When the Left had its election opening in Arendal, under Arendalsuka, we gave 31 reasons to change government, 31 things to fight for if we got a new majority. I can state the status of the Great Britain's first debate on the 31 issues: 14 of them have now been completed, 10 have been partially implemented, 6 have not been implemented, and 1 of them have got the majority against us. That means you get a lot for the vote when you vote on the left. I believe in the agreement to revitalise Stortinget. It shall provide for the possibility of raising the major public debates back to the Grand Duchy. The left view is that we have had both a good impact and a good armstroke in the future to help create and develop policies. I think the open debates provide better solutions. I think raising debates into the open room provides better policies and better solutions for people. I think that hearings at Stortinget again become important, that it actually matters what the organisations have prioritised and what they have developed, gives the opportunity to develop new policies not only in closed party offices or in closed sub-committees where a few sit and negotiate between themselves, so that you actually get policy-making also in the Stortinget, which I think will provide better solutions for the country. The left is going to act impatiently and demandingly, but also constructively towards the government that is, and some fields we're going to hang extra on. We are very pleased that we have received the formulations we have received on climate, which are considerably stronger than the number of thrones that are the basis for the debate that we have now. The outgoing government had the weakest imaginable formulations in the climate – we have strengthened it through the cooperation agreement. But we're worried about the classic nature protection. We're going to be a good enough contact for the Environment Minister, I hope, to develop policies in this area as well. We're going to take care of the teacher's vow by saying that it's not just going to apply to someone, but that it's actually going to apply to the Norwegian teaching profession by getting to the career paths that make it more exciting to learn the entire professional life, by reducing the use of unskilled people and reducing bureaucracy in Norwegian school, and by not only betting at primary school, but also getting a lot of research to make sure that we get a change in the business world – the transition we know we're going to live on in the future. I have to admit that I thought it was a little stunned to get a new oil and energy minister who spent the whole of his first day talking about renewable energy. It's a big, different rate shift compared to the government that went off, where oil was the minister who basically ran with it. In the field of transportation, we're going to expect that there's going to be as much pressure on the collective part as on the road section, and we're going to take care of that from here. Now we've been told that we want to revitalize the Stortinget. We have said that we want to move debates into public space, and then we have to take that responsibility by doing it in a proper way as well. Since I'm almost the only one who hasn't quoted Sverdrup, I want to say, he said to the Left people once a long time ago, which is very topical today, too, that we're living in a new time, it's a new fight, but we left-people are in.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e983	It opens for cord changes of up to six lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e986	There have been many congratulations. I get to congratulate Trine Skei Grande on continuing to be the parliamentary leader of the Left in opposition. There's also reason to look at the long lines in the debate. This is actually the first time the Left Party and the Labour Party sit together in opposition of 28 years. It's going to be interesting to see how we can work together in this hall in this period. To the Nations on 9 August, Trine Skei Grande says that she ‘has two objectives in the election campaign: to throw the red-green government and to ensure minimum Frp policy’. I guess we'll be able to congratulate Skei Grande on having succeeded with the first. The question is, Has she succeeded in the last time, ‘Minimum Frp Policy Care’? I think many people in the election campaign felt that a vote to the Left should not be a vote to the Progress Party of the Government. Now the Progress Party controls agricultural policy, collective action, gender equality policy and immigration policy. Does Skei Grande think that she has succeeded with goal no. 2, ‘provide minimum Frp policy’ in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1000	The representative Giske could also congratulate us on the election result, as we are one of the winners in this Chamber! There are many things I think we can work with the Workers' Party on too. I don't see that in the dark. But it's clear that we should have wanted us to be a little bit bigger, and that we could have gone into the government, that we would have had more muscle power after the election than we actually got. So that's how I'm concerned about politics. Now this government has been sitting for five days if a numerator with the weekend, and then I think maybe we should wait a little while to judge it for what it's doing. However, when it comes to negotiating good solutions in asylum and refugee policy, we, who want a softer policy, are scattered, both civil and socialist. I noticed that I came further with the Advance Party than what SV came with the Workers' Party. That's what I think the Workers' Party should go back and think a little bit about.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1009	I fully agree that we should wait to take stock of the new government, but I can assure you that many of the issues that Skei Grande raised in her introduction – teachers’ vows, business simplification, poverty reduction, long-term research plans and efforts – she will find warm support from the Workers’ Party in this Chamber. My experience is that there are many Left voters who are disappointed that the Progress Party is now in government, but many are relieved that the Left does not sit in that government. We in the Labour Party are also pleased about that. I fully agree with Mr Grande that it is the policy that counts, and it is understandable that the Left and, for example, the Left. The Progress Party, which in many cases is counter-polar in Norwegian policy, whether it is immigration policy, environmental policy, gender policy or many other issues, did not find itself in government together. The question is then: will the Left use the freed-up position to create a majority for a good distribution policy, for international solidarity, for the development of the common school and for nature protection, even when it comes to opposing the Right Party regime?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1016	I can answer by raising the issue of poverty. First Document No The 8th proposal promoted by the Left in this Chamber four years ago, following the last elections, was a proposal to combat poverty. It was promoted by Abid Raja, with a lot of action, inviting us to a broad deal in the fight against poverty. We were shocked. Then came the big message, which was supposed to fix this, according to the government. We promoted, according to my memory, 36 suggestions. All the proposals were defeated. In the budget that the previous government has now presented, if you scrape together all the measures against poverty, and think around, about 100 million. kr used to combat poverty. In the Left's alternative state budget, we've largely re-prioritized 2 billion. in the fight against poverty. What we noticed when we sat down with the parties that are in government today is that we got a pass on almost all of the proposals we have made in the Storting and that the red-greens have voted against. So if the Labour Party wants to turn around, they are warmly welcome back in the fight against poverty!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1027	I will also be allowed to congratulate the Left on not sitting in government – I think that was a wise choice. The representative Skei Grande said from the pulpit instead that she was very pleased that we were now going to get a proper teacher's lift. I know that Skei Grande has been busy with the teacher. It is made clear in the government statement that there are 10,000 more teachers to receive further education, and then in mathematics, in five years. That means 2,000 teachers a year. And as the representative Skei Grande knows, it's the exact same number that we're actually training today – that's 2,000 a year. I just wonder if the representative, Skei Grande, will continue to use the word ‘teacher lift’, or whether she, for example, will use the word ‘teacher lift’. will use the word 'furthering'?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1034	Firstly, I think it is important to see these measures in their entirety. Making career paths is an important part of this. That proposal stood the left early in our almost alone about in the Stortinget, now it is in a government statement. We have to look at all the measures together. But to put it like that, this left is going to push in all the budgets, from the Biggest. This is one of the most important things we went to elections on. The climate and knowledge will continue to be the main mantra for the Left in this ageing period.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1039	In the cooperation agreement, the Left took this on the question of reservation rights for LAGs, but supported a new KRLE subject by at least 55 pst. Christianity. It means a Christian-dominated subject in a Norway that becomes more multicultural, where students get less time for other life views and important ethical issues such as sex, demarcation, bullying, racism, and where teachers are detailed to give at least 55 pst. of teaching time in Christianity. In response to the criticism, party leader Skei Grande says that this was in order to get through the case of asylum seekers and in the case of Lofoten, Vesterålen and Senja. But would it not have been necessary to soften the Christian People's Party to get through to it? What about the social development that makes Left now find it in place to introduce a large "K" in the Norwegian school?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1046	This is one thing we fundamentally disagree with. We would want us not to give up on this. But to get rid of SV in order to give and engage in negotiations is a bit funny. To put it that way: I was willing to give a «k» in a trade for the Lofoten and the Vesterålen, so that we got embellishment when it came to the asylum children, so that we got to the teacher promise that we were busy with, and that we finally got a government that is willing to go in for proposals the Left has in the case of poor children. There are many such measures that were more important to me than a letter. Okay, I got on a letter. Okay, this wasn't Left's primary desire to do, but I think it was worth giving, and as I think most left-wing people think it was worth giving. If you're sitting on a rock out against the ocean gap towards the Lofoten and looking out over the sea, that letter is worth giving.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1053	There is always reason to congratulate for the success of negotiations, and of course, the adoption of a government statement is positive for a party. Now it remains to be seen in each budget and in all of the matters we are going to deal with here for the next four years, how it goes in the individual cases. But what remains – the fundamental part of these experiments – is that the Left and Christian People's Party concluded that the political distance between their parties and the Right and the Advance Party was so great that one could not sit in government together. It's a fundamental choice that I think will be too much of this magnification period. The Prime Minister had said that a four-party government was the goal. You didn't succeed in that goal. So the question is, what role will the Left take in the Storting? You want to be willing to form a majority, for example. for a good, international policy of solidarity, even if the Right and the Advance Party disagree on this, and ensure that we maintain the Community idea – also internationally – which Norway has stood for?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1063	Yes, as I said in my post: we should be impatient, demanding and constructive. We have agreed to be the first dealer, but that means we can also go around each other. I'm assuming that's what we need to find the form of work for. But for the Left, it's the policy that decides. As long as the government offers something we can go for, we're also going to vote for it. Otherwise, we're going to deal with the political issues that are also being raised here in the Chamber. I believe, as I said, that this can also create an arena to create better solutions through the political debate. I believe that public debate leads to better solutions. I think open hearings at Stortinget provide better solutions, and I hope that all contribute. Jens Stoltenberg has said that he too – when he is in Parliament – is because Parliament has a lot of power. We are always because Parliament has a lot of power.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1070	I get to continue a little bit about this that 2,000 teachers receive continuing training in a year. I just want to inform the representative Skei Grande that this year there are in fact 9 000 teachers who will receive continuing training in, among other things. school management and classroom management, and that is a much higher figure than that of the new government in five years. But the representative Trine Skei Grande said she wants to fight for this in every budget. In what has been presented by the government now, we see that there is not a single pipe about the local economy. We all know that it is the local economy that is going to be involved and finance, among other things. continuing training of teachers. Will the representative Skei Grande also ensure that the local economy is given a boost in order to finance the continuing training of these teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1079	I would first like to say that in the case of continuing training for teachers, we also need to look at whether we organise it properly. We've been fighting for a continuing education promise here in Oslo. We've got it done, it's called the teacher's vow, and we've been doing it for almost ten years. There are different organisations, and there are now discussions with teacher organisations, for example. started with summer course. It's a much more effective use of the time, because you don't have to take in the agency. Then you'd better pay the teachers extra because they're on vacation. I think it's a great opportunity to do this when you're willing to think new, and I hope that's what the new government council in the field is. Then it's clear that local economy is going to be very important in the future, but it's also important to have mechanisms that make us get to the municipal reform that's about moving a lot more power down the system. Then we will look at how we can use the local economy – how we can also give municipalities greater freedom of action – to also get the opportunity to stimulate the process that we need to get fewer municipalities in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1086	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1089	Eight years of red-green government gave a reddisher and greener Norway. It was a time for trend breaking, when our country in many areas reversed a negative trend towards a positive trend. After two decades of growing differences, the economic inequality went down. After Norway had slowed down compared with other countries, the trend reversed, and the school performance went up — mostly for those students who initially gave up the weakest. At the end of the red-green government period, greenhouse gas emissions have been the lowest since 1995, with the exception of the 2009 economic crisis. After many years of privatisation policy under changing governments, the community was strengthened by the strong development of important public welfare systems. The population is now increasing throughout the country, even in areas that have experienced long-term stagnation. SV has been the driver for the greatest possible and fastest possible change towards more community and a better environment. We should have gone faster in many areas, but we are proud of the direction Norway has taken in our years of government. The SV's position is that we can compromise on everything, except that – the political direction of society. That is why SV is in opposition to the government that made its statement to the Stortinget on Friday. It signals a different direction for Norway in crucial areas. Climate problems are the greatest challenge of our time. It has been said so many times that it sounds like a cliché, but today it still feels necessary to remember it. Because of eight main initiatives in the government platform, no one is about the environment. It's a main effort to reduce taxes, and it's a main effort to reduce the number of municipalities. It is even a major effort to reduce what is known as a so-called ‘spice ban’. However, reducing Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions is not an explicit main effort. I understood from the post of the representative of Greece that it is to be understood as a tribute to the Christian People's Party and the Left. It is at least a kind of reward they hardly want to be rewarded by several times. Any responsible government should have the fight against climate change at the top of its priorities. A modern and knowledge-based government platform should demonstrate a path towards the low-carbon society through reduced oil dependence, a high rate of renewable energy, a shift towards green industries and green transport. What we have been presented is a platform for a bluer Norway. But there is no platform for a greener Norway. It's a blue grey platform. Our new Environment and Climate Minister has said in the media that it does not matter that climate is not a matter of its own initiative in the platform because climate policy is to be the governing force of all government councils. In S.B., we'll watch those words every single day. That is why the Minister for Finance, the Minister for Transport, the Minister for Agriculture and the Minister for Oil and Energy now has a very great responsibility for climate change. Together, they are responsible for a great many of the most important means of reducing emissions. And when we know that precisely these state councils are from a party that is constantly questioning whether climate change is man-made – now, at last, through the lack of willingness of the Minister of Agriculture to clean up his own, previous statements – it must be allowed to meet this government with a certain climate scepticism. A green light point in the new platform is the point of a still oil-free Lofoten, Vestralen and Senja, which also secures the ice edge, Jan Mayen, Skagerrak and Mørebanken against oil activities in the next four years. With this, the red-green policy adopted by SV continues for these areas. All the honors of the Christian People's Party and the Left that got through to it in the co-operation agreement with the government. Nevertheless, the Left and Christian People's Party have a great responsibility, because they have now chosen to entrust the initiative in environmental policy to two parties that have not yet prioritised the environment. They have to do that now! That is why EN today, together with the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European We in SV and all other parties in Stortinget now have a great responsibility to meet all proposals for climate action constructively. We will be in favour of any proposal providing for lower greenhouse gas emissions and ensuring that the climate agreement is the floor of Norwegian climate policy and not a roof. Norway’s wealth and well-being are based on a social model that has some unique features. We create to share, but we've also recognized that we need to share to create. The welfare state, with comprehensive Community solutions and strong safety networks, is profitable. A regulated working life with significant employee power is effective. Active policies for equality between women and men serve the whole of society. The SV's goal is to reinforce these aspects of Norwegian society. We want to give workers more power through new measures against social dumping and by investing in trust rather than privatisation. We will focus more on education through a more comprehensive school day for our children and larger investment in research. We will pursue gender equality policies by ensuring the right to full-time employment for women and continue to make it easier to combine family and work by ensuring two admissions per year in kindergartens and defending the maximum price. We want everyone in Norway to have proper care and treatment in a public health system that is equal to everyone, which is governed according to people's needs and not according to what is profitable. We will further reduce differences in Norway in order to strengthen trust and social cohesion in our society. And in order to cope with all of this, we dare to say to a few others in Norwegian politics: that those who have a lot have to contribute more, that the financial industry, those who are on high values in property, those with high incomes or large wealth, all should contribute more to the community, that growth in the budgets of schools, health centres and child protection is more important than with even more growth in private consumption. And we say that the welfare state and the school should serve the inhabitants, they shouldn't make money. We want a quality principle in well-being and school: every krona allocated to child-rescue, drug care, schools or care for the elderly should go to it and not to the profit of commercial companies. Basic welfare tasks shall be carried out by private, non-profit or public actors; they shall not be commercial stores. That's our choice of value. The new government will go another way. In the platform, it says: ‘The Government considers initially that the production of welfare services differs little from other services.’ This is a verbatim copy of the Progress Party program. If what's in the platform is thoughtful and literally meant, at this point it's going to be extraordinarily. It's an ideological declaration of war against a carrier in the Norwegian model, which is based on the fact that some tasks are so important to the citizens that we choose to solve them together. To put it another way: giving our children schooling or nurturing our old and sick means something completely different and fundamentally different from offering other services like manicure or changing the exhaust pot. Increased privatisation is an ideological position. There is no research showing that the quality of welfare services increases if they are operated by commercial interests. Nevertheless, the quality of public welfare can be improved — in some cases much better. The way there is not by giving more power to the market, but by giving more power to those who know where the shoe is pressing. It means listening to the users and to their experiences and giving greater professional freedom and confidence in the professional judgements of employees. The public sector needs a trust reform that replaces bureaucracy with professional action spaces and user-power consultancy. SV will invite all those who care about the public sector to participate in developing such a trust reform in the coming years. SV has three main thrusts of this ageing period: a comprehensive environmental policy to convert Norway into a sustainable low-carbon society, a comprehensive economic policy to build the community, strengthen equality and reduce the economic differences between peoples and a solidarity foreign policy for peace, the environment, distribution and human rights, based on what is good for the world, not just what is good for Norway. These three perspectives are either too weak or absent in the government's platform and declaration. We want to work expediently, both inside and outside the Stortinget, so that the environment, justice and solidarity will not be forgotten in the time when Norway will be governed on a blue-grey platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1151	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1154	It was a hairbreadth from the fact that SV had to put all its political power outside of Stortinget – I congratulate the party on being represented again. SV is proud to have been in government for a long time – eight years. They might be more proud of it than they are of the results. During these eight years, they have run the two departments that have the most say for children and young people in the country, the Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry of Children, Equality and Inclusion. During a transitional period, the Lighthouse has also managed the latter department. My question is: In view of the fact that the previous government was to eliminate poverty, and given that there have never been more children in poor families than today, is the Light Hill satisfied with the trend break that SV's contribution to the government has contributed to?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1163	Let me first thank you for the congratulations. I can assure you that the mandates given to SV will be well marked, not least as a tough opposition to the government supported by the representative Tetzschner. We are proud of the direction Norway has had in the years we have been driving. We are concerned about the new direction in which the Right wants to take Norway. With regard to the fight against poverty and the fight against children and young people, a number of measures have been taken in recent years to ensure that today’s poor children do not become tomorrow’s poor adults. I wouldn't be very high and dark on behalf of the right when we read the platform that is considering taking away the disabled children's supplement, getting rid of the transitional benefit and reintroducing cash support for two-year-olds, all three of whom are targeted measures to drastically increase child poverty in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1172	This government has addressed in the platform the problem of children growing up in low-income families, while SV used to choose to remove the entire poverty with a pen stroke. Some of the poverty problems are attributed to immigration and inclusion problems. Does the Lysbakken agree or disagree with the former representative of Akhtar Chaudhry, who in yesterday's Newspaper states that there is also an alarming romance of violence under development, which is just evidence of a lack of inclusion, which SV has also managed in the department for which they have been responsible with the Ministry of Knowledge?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1177	It is a little unclear to me where the representative Tetzschner believes it is a romance of violence, but I can assure you that I am against it wherever it might be. It is this way, if the representative believes with it different extreme environments with the background of religious minorities or ethnic minorities, that SV has long pointed out the importance of combating it. That is why we are among those who have the most obvious voice in meeting with, among other things. Islamist extremists in Norway recently. I think there's a broad consensus on that in Stortinget. With regard to the policy on the inclusion of children with a minority background, I would like to strongly warn against the course on which the Right is now coming back on, for example. reintroduce the cash support for two-year-olds, which is a targeted measure to keep the most needed children out of kindergarten and Norwegian training.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1184	Let me congratulate the Lighthouse on coming into Stortinget again with trouble and no doubt, but it held. I have registered that there is a proposal distributed in the Chamber of the SV and the Environment Party of the Greens. Now I don't know if this is to follow the invitation of partisan Stein Ørnhøi to merge these parties because of this greedy election result – whether this is the first step. However, I note that the proposal concerns the need for an enhanced climate settlement. I guess it's in self-esteem that what was negotiated, self-contained and even responsible for, was too bad, and I thank you for that recognition. I also register and find that the last time you had to make a deal, I did not want SV to negotiate at the same table where the Progress Party was present. Is this proposal now more than likely to be put down with the Progress Party in order to develop an ambitious and sensible climate policy for Norway in the coming years?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1194	I thank you again for the congratulations. Let me say it that I think it was the most natural thing in the world that the Progress Party did not participate in the climate agreement, because the Progress Party is the only party in the Storting that has not unequivocally acknowledged that people are behind serious climate change. It was as natural as it would have been entirely foreign if SV were to be invited into a broad settlement at Stortinget to give the billionaires tax relief. It has to be that you share a certain value base if you're going to agree on politics. What the climate agreement was never meant to be, was a thank you for Norwegian climate policy. Also if there had been a red-green majority in this election, we would have worked intensively to strengthen the climate agreement, and I take it as a matter of course that it would have delivered the red-green parties. That's why there's nothing to boast about solving the formulations of strengthening the reconciliation – it should be lacking. What lies in the agreement today is a good start, but not enough to achieve Norway’s climate goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1203	The proposal that is on this table is a school example of a recognition that the government in which you sit has not succeeded. But we're now going to see how it goes on. But at least one thing has turned out to be a success – and I want to pay great tribute to the Socialist Left Party. Together with the red-greens, they are actually proposing in their budget to increase the asset tax point to 1 million. kr. That is a sensible measure. It might have been even higher, but it's a good start. My question to the representative Lysbakken is: what has changed in one year? For then, the Progress Party proposed a 1 million entry point. One year ago, it was pointed out by the Socialist Left Party that if you did this, it was giving more to the rich and those who had the most from before. My question to the Lighthouse is this: what has changed in the last year that makes you change your position, and will SV guarantee that they will also vote for this one million when the matter is discussed in the budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1212	I am very proud of the two climate agreements SV has been the driver of, because it gave us the opportunity to negotiate twice – once in the government and once in the Stortinget. It gives results, and I hope that it will also be practice in the coming period. Of course, it has always been intended that the climate agreement should be further strengthened. So there's nothing to brag about because you have a loose ambition to do that. Of course it is, but of course I am glad that the Progress Party has signed. As regards taxes on wealth, what has been presented in this year’s budget is fully in line with the line SV and the red-green government has been leading since 2005. We have made the wealth tax considerably more fair. Very many people have not paid taxes on wealth. I believe that what is now there is being incorporated into the range of the kind of measures that we are in favour of, because it makes the wealth tax fairer and more sustainable. On the other hand, we have criticised all the proposals to eliminate taxes on wealth. With the changes that have now been presented by the Red-Green Government, attempts at it even more clearly than before will appear as a very unsocial distribution policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1221	I can't help but admit that I was sitting and thinking about comedian Ali when I heard the statement from the SV parliamentary leader. It's not because I don't recognise SV's commitment to climate, but it's because it gets so hollow. I feel that the criticism bombs like that, because if one goes into both the cooperation agreement and the declaration that exists, this government is actually much more offensive to the climate than the previous government was. Where the former government spoke of us reaching the North Pole, this government has set a clear limit at the ice edge. Where Audun Lysbakken in the election campaign called for what he could for a climate action rule that new areas should not be opened, this government with the Advance Party has actually done so: new areas should not be opened in the next period. Where the red-green government was able to bring the emissions down by 2.5 pst. in eight years, ambitions shall be reinforced. That's why I hope we can be constructive in Stortinget, and there I hope that SV and the Christian People's Party can play a role, because now the power is here. Shouldn't SV also have emerged with a little greater humility and self-recognition in order to contribute to the constructive cooperation that Stortinget will achieve?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1228	I would like to congratulate the Christian People's Party on having done the same in the oil policy of the cooperation platform provided by SV in the previous period. That's very good. The difference is that I still say that it is very good, while the representative Ropstad in the previous period thought it was too bad, but now it seems very good. I congratulate you on that recognition. So it's necessary to move on. Then I would recommend the representative Roppstad to take a slightly different tone against the parties that you actually agree with. I think and have long thought that if the environmental parties in this room are going to get into each other the way that Ropstad is doing now with frail references to Comedian Ali, then we're all losing on it. I, and SV, intend to have a constructive tone towards the Christian People's Party and the Left, congratulate the Christian People's Party and the Left, and invite them to cooperate, because we know that across the blocks the environmental parties must stand together to get to something. I would encourage the Christian People's Party to also lay down on such a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1235	I am joining the team of congratulations to Lysbakken. I was really happy on SV's behalf that they ended up on the right side of the barrier limit. I have a problem with the opposite, and I don't think so. In the previous period, the Left made a number of suggestions on reducing poverty, especially for families with children. SV and Lysbakken systematically voiced against everything we suggested. In the co-operation agreement with the government, the Left has been given the advantage of a package of measures aimed at children in poor families and at increasing the differentiation and parental payment in both kindergartens and SFOs. Would the SV, in its new role, support the Left in strengthening such a commitment and, not least, ensuring that concrete, simple and effective measures to increase the differentiation of child rights and payment rates are widened as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1242	Let me first thank you for the congratulations and return it. It's extra nice when it comes from a horde valleying, and it was good to wish Hordaland Left back on the Stortinget. SV will be associated with all other parties that will implement measures that have a real impact on child poverty. There is reason to remember that the bet in that area is far greater today than it was after the previous bourgeois government. It'll be exciting to see what this bourgeois government will do. There are several individual measures presented in the cooperation agreement that we will support. But I also find reason to warn against some of the things in the government's platform – especially related to the children's supplement to the poor and the transitional benefit – proposals proposed by the Progress Party and the Right in the past, which could provide many thousands of new poor children, and also the reintroduction of cash support for two-year-olds, which would be very harmful. So I hope the Left will stand with us in the resistance to that kind of action.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1251	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1254	As the Environment Party of the Greens, the first representative of the Norwegian National Assembly, I would like to express our deep respect for the Norwegian People's Party and for the efforts of other parties to build Norway into one of the world's foremost democracies and welfare societies. The ideas underlying this welfare society contain decisive and irresistible values. But they also have a blind spot: the old ideologies take the very life base of the earth for granted. Politics is to want and to act. Humans have always faced major and serious challenges. But now we are facing something fundamentally new: we are changing the very basis of life and the physical and biological conditions of life on earth. This is a challenge we can only solve through common global commitments. But global consensus presupposes that each country does its job, and it assumes that someone starts. Norway has a clear moral commitment to go ahead, and at the same time we have a unique opportunity now to take the Norwegian welfare community a long way further. 79 000 people have voted for the Greens' Greens' Greens' Group in the European Parliament. Both these and many more voters are now asking questions through a political consensus that the only relevant framework for Norwegian social development should be to secure ourselves more and more. In the everyday life here in Oslo, we still have to remind ourselves that we should not go uninfected past people who sit on the pavement and have nothing else to hope for but that we should give them a coin. In the international community, we have to remind ourselves that Norway is an extremely privileged country on a grossly unfair planet. The Green Party is not a moralist party and not a party for bad conscience. But we have been sent here by voters who believe it is a matter of course that Norwegian policy should be governed as much after what is right as after what pays off. We've been sent here by voters who believe that the global job starts here at home, and not least here in this room. All in Norway are aware of earth’s climate and resource problems. We're learning about it at school. Prime Ministers are talking about it in New Year's. At the same time, people experience that climate policy is difficult to see in everyday life. People see that almost all policy instruments are designed to increase private and material consumption even more. In his statement to the Stortinget, the Prime Minister paid particular attention to knowledge and to strengthening research and education. It is a priority that the Greens wholeheartedly support. But knowledge solves a little bit alone. We need the right black knowledge, and it has to be used. For example, Norway has: already one of the world’s leading climate research environments. However, while Norwegian climate researchers document the ongoing and dramatic changes in the Arctic and are almost begging for a more binding climate policy, Norway continues to focus on increasing oil activities in the Arctic. What Norway needs now is knowledge that provides the basis for a renewable society, and we need to use it. The government of Solberg is highly committed to the development of infrastructure such as road, rail and energy. Road construction is a mistake, while railway deployment and deployment of renewable energy are right measures, provided they are based on knowledge. The problem is that, at the same time as major expansions, the Right Party and the Advance Party actively weaken the knowledge-based safety net to protect Norwegian nature and biodiversity. The Green Party will therefore work hard in the UK to preserve Norwegian nature and to ensure the welfare of farm animals and Norwegian homes. We want to strengthen animal surveillance and make control of Norwegian animal husbandry independent of business interests. Furnace farming must now be phased out, and we will clean up agriculture's fastest growing industries, such as the chicken industry, so that farming complies with the Animal Welfare Act. All honours to the Christian People's Party and the Left who have continued and expanded SV's good efforts to postpone oil activity in vulnerable areas. But it is not good enough that Norwegian environmental success consists of constant undecided rematches. A knowledge-based management of the sea shall consist in respecting the clear advice given by all natural sciences over and over again. What we don't need is more than one deposit to demand so-called new knowledge, because the knowledge you have doesn't match the answers you want. Today, Norway’s welfare is based on increased global warming. The State budget of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV indicates that Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions will increase until 2020 and then decrease to the present level in 2030. Current investments have an explicit objective of securing the petroleum industry well up to 2050. Oil and gas exports generate another 10 times the national greenhouse gas emissions and the oil business surplus is invested through the Pension Fund in the global financial market, which is the engine of global warming. At the same time, the government of Solberg announced a gradual transition to a low-carbon society in 2050. The Greens have heard this before, but we are taking it seriously. Such a conversion does not happen by itself. It must be actively implemented and committed. When our society thinks that something is too serious to be a political caste ball from elections to elections, we promise it. We therefore challenge the government to deliver on the election campaign's promise to enforce a climate law and to submit a proposal for such a law as soon as possible. The basis for this investigation lies in a drawer where the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party let it. The Green Party welcomes Solberg's government's ambition to strengthen climate reconciliation. The current settlement was a good idea, but is a little obliging agreement on a minimum common multiple. Climate policy now needs management. A new climate settlement is necessary. The right now has to confirm the electoral commitments for a much better climate policy than the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV led. The longer the new government dares to go ahead, the sooner the other parties will compete. Sustainable Norway does not come of its own. We have to pick it, and we have to do it. Therefore, Norwegian oil activities should be closed in 20 years. Such a decision will provide Norwegian research and business with the political confirmation and the long-termity they need to bet. We don't want to turn off the oil tap tomorrow, we want a planned liquidation. 20 years is a layer of liquidation period. Revenue from the Pension Fund will not disappear, and Norwegian business life has a high level of adaptability. 40 years ago, we barely had an oil sector. Now it's the world leader. The same capable people will create the next generation of businesses when the political framework is just laid. Norway is Europe’s largest port. Cooperation between industry, research, policy and environmental movements has ensured the world's best managed fisheries, which can provide the basis for new business development and many new jobs. Our marine ecosystems have large production and houses tens of thousands of species that can provide raw material for food production, carbon capture and new generations of products in biochemistry, materials, genetics and IT. Over Norwegian seas huge amounts of energy are blowing, which can make Norway a new major nation within the sea. Norwegian aquaculture has to solve its environmental and feed problems, but when it does, opportunities for further development of the industry are great. Forest industry is facing an active and strong differentiation from yesterday’s concentration on plank and paper, and Norwegian agriculture can obviously provide many more jobs and a much larger product range. German Conservative Prime Minister Angela Merkel has shown that new decisions on the direction of society are still possible today. The German «Energywende», strongly influenced by our sister party Die Grünen, was not motivated by short-term market rationality. A new and overall policy objective was adopted, knowing that costs and transition problems would be high. When we decide in this room that we will develop the sustainable Norwegian society, we will. Politics is both to want and to act. In his government statement, Prime Minister Solberg said that we must leave the globe to our descendants in a better state than when we took it. The question is therefore not whether Norway should develop further from the oil age, but when. The question is how we will steer development and make the transition to sustainable Norway an ambitious, goal-conscious and ground-breaking leap for the Norwegian welfare society and an example that can inspire the world. Nothing triggers more creativity than a common community project with a common direction. If we don't, who in the world is going to do that? The Green Party will work hard to make this new policy choice now. Finally, I would like to make two proposals from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 1:@item: inlistbox ‘During 2014, the government is asked to give the State pension fund abroad a mandate to invest at least 5 pst. of the Fund’s market value directly in renewable energy production and distribution infrastructure by 2020.’;» Proposal No. Article 2 is replaced by ‘The government is asked to change the investment strategy of the State pension fund abroad so that the fund withdraws from all coal and tar sands activities and gradually reduces exposure to other fossil energy in the portfolio.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1314	The representative Rasmus Hansson has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1319	First of all, I would like to congratulate the representative Rasmus Hansson and the Greens with room for manoeuvre in the Stortinget. Having heard the article here today, I am convinced that the Greens will participate in and raise the environmental debate in the Storting, and I think that is important. I look forward to participating in it, and I also look forward to working with the party – if the party wants it. Then I have a question for the representative. Before the elections, the Green Party was very clear that it was not appropriate to support a government with the Progress Party. I wonder if the representative agrees that the Storting may now have become an even more important place for the development of Norwegian climate policy, when we have a party in government that does not believe that climate change is man-made.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1327	Thank you for a nice question and a nice congratulations. The Greens have chosen to cooperate with all those who want to improve Norwegian sustainability policy and Norwegian climate policy. This also applies in itself to the Progress Party, but we have been quite clear that we do not want to support the formation of government with the Advance Party. We are going to challenge all parties in this Chamber to come up with climate solutions that are better than those we have today, and not least we are looking forward to a debate on a new climate settlement, where both the Labour Party and the sitting government are engaged and are making new proposals. We're going to stimulate that competition with all the forces.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1336	Thank you for your answer, and thank you for a good challenge. I think most of the parties take that. It'll be exciting. Then there's something I'm wondering. The Green Party is very much perceived as a one-off party by a lot of people, even though there were different issues that were interesting enough in the election campaign. But if we think about economic policy and parts of climate policy, then the Greens are quite far from many of the parties here on the Stortinget. Then I wonder: how does the representative Hansson and the Greens want to approach the other parties? Will you also be constructive in matters where you stand quite far apart?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1343	The Green Party is part of a major international green movement, where a number of parties are large, wide-ranging public parties that pursue policies across policies, such as: in Sweden, Germany and other countries. Our ambition is to become a corresponding party in Norwegian politics, and that means that we intend to engage in all policy areas. We already have a programme in all policy areas, although we do not hide the least that we obviously have to give priority to the environmental sector when we are so small on the Stortinget. But in economic, welfare and other policy areas, our aim is to challenge the other parties to a more solidarity policy, and at the same time we are fully willing to look at both the right-hand and the left-hand instruments to achieve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1353	I'd like to return to realistic idealism, because we need realists, it's those who know how to break the barriers. But there's not so much realism in the program that the representative Hansson is elected to. For example, it says that real wage growth is to be replaced by a ‘decrease in normal working time’. Well, in 2010, the average real wage growth was 1.5 pst. It'll be more leisure time. In 2011, it was 3 pst. It'll be more leisure time. In 2012 it was 3.2 pst. It'll be even more leisure time. This isn't visionary. If we work less, we create less. If we make less, we'll get poorer. That's the labour force we live on. Does the representative Hansson think that Norway can play a greater role in international climate work as a poor country than what we can do as a rich country?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1360	I'm a realist of education, and I'm a realist in politics. I am not among those who believe it is realistic in Norway to imagine our voters and our political debate that Norwegian consumption and Norwegian economy can grow into heaven forever. What the Green Party is doing is asking the question that any person in this room will have to ask: what are we going to do when we have to flatten out our resource consumption, and when we have to deal with what the rest of the world already has to deal with because of resource constraints and economic constraints? If someone thinks there's a lack of realism to question whether it's possible to spend valuable time outside of work, I challenge them to try what can be done when you're not at work. Otherwise, we are again willing to discuss the concrete content of that kind of challenge with both you and others.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1365	I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the Greens with a good choice and place on the Stortinget for the first time. This breakthrough for the Green Party testifies to the Norwegian people's commitment to environmental and climate policy, and fortunately there are also several political parties. In the election campaign, Rasmus Hansson called for broad cooperation between all parties in the Stortinget who are concerned with the climate. The cooperation agreement between the government parties, the Left and the Christian People's Party states that the climate agreement should be strengthened, and I am grateful for the recognition given by Rasmus Hansson to the Left and Christian People's Party on that occasion. My question is how the Green Party would like to position itself in the Great Britain as we now know it looks after the elections, and how you can contribute to raising important climate issues and contributing to constructive cooperation in the Great Britain.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1374	The Green Party made a known choice on a challenge to what we call the locked Norwegian block policy, which, in our opinion, is one of the major brake blocks for not only Norwegian environmental and climate policy, but for Norwegian policy in general. We believe that this room, by way of exception, has locked itself to two main blocks, forces a good deal of thinking down the drawer, and our challenge and our ability is just to offer cooperation and create competition between the blocks in a way that frees thoughts in the Norwegian political environment. What we have heard in the debate today makes me more convinced than ever that we have that opportunity, and it is going to use all the forces of the Green Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1379	First, I would like to congratulate the representative Rasmus Hansson – and the Greens – who has managed to become a completely new representative on the Stortinget with a new party. That's good work. One of the areas where there are clear dividing lines in this room is the area for which I was previously responsible, agricultural policy. In the election campaign, I also had to read the Green Party's programme, and it was very offensive in view of increased maritime supply – it was argued that it would be because of international solidarity and food security in one's own country. Therefore, my question to the representative Rasmus Hansson is: can the Greens think of being part of a broader agricultural policy alliance where the power of agricultural policy lies in the Stortinget, not in the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1386	The short answer is yes, with obvious reservations about the content of such an alliance. The Greens have already pointed out that one of the interesting opportunities at Stortinget is an opportunity consisting of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Left, the Christian People's Party, and the Greens' Greens' Greens' Party. It is a broad centre salliance with a very common value base, and it is an alliance that, if raised to a level that is better than a blue or civil alternative, is of considerable interest to us. And the agricultural policy, on which the representative, Mr Schlagsvold Vedum, asks, is very central to the Green Party, for the very obvious simple reason that we will work harder than anyone else for a society based on the well-being of renewable resources. In that case, there is no particular doubt that agriculture is at the heart of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1391	I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity to congratulate the Greens' Greens' Greens' Party on their election and to close your eyes to important work on the Stortinget. Most people have a fundamental desire to set up the climate and secure future generations the same freedom to enjoy and use the nature that we have. In particular, the most effective tool we have to make it easier to live climate-friendly is a green tax regime that systematically promotes climate-friendly choices. I believe that Hansson and the Greens have agreed on this. What is more exciting to ask about, however, is: What level – device – will the Green Party have on the tax system to make it easier for everyone to carry out climate-friendly actions and choices?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1399	You are right that the Green Party wants to use a green tax regime as a very important tool, both to make climate-friendly actions and a climate-friendly life easier for individuals, and not least to facilitate the development of a green business where new industries and new businesses can grow and take over the burden of a welfare society that oil is a major asset today. We're going to work on providing an alternative state budget where we, among other things. will outline a tax escalator both in the taxation of persons and in the taxation instruments that contribute to both lower consumption and more climate-friendly action, and instruments in relation to corporate taxation that have the same effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1404	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1407	We are many who are making their debut today – some like new big business representatives and some of us as fresh government councils. I look forward to good debates in new roles. I want to start by inviting cooperation, cooperation on important reforms to simplify, renew and improve both for those who work in public administration and with public services, and for users. An important foundation for reform is the cooperation agreement between the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Advance Party and the Right. It emphasises that policy should be based on trust, trust in individuals, non-governmental organisations, businesses and communities. We need to improve well-being, especially for those who need it the most. The combination of KRD and FAD and moving the Planning Department from the Ministry of Environment makes it possible to see important policy areas in context. One department gets responsibility for plan and construction, we get the opportunity to see it in context. We are given the opportunity to see the central government and local authority frameworks in the context, and we are given the opportunity to see innovation and ICT in the country and municipality in the context. It will enable earlier and better coordination and more forceful implementation. Simplification shall be promoted through better management, more trust and less detailed management, more accountability and less control, more cooperation and less sectoral thinking. We're going to eliminate the time thieves, so that the many competent administrative and public service staff can spend more time on core tasks and less time on meetings and reporting. Doctors and nurses should be able to spend more time on patients. Teachers should be able to spend more time on students. Nav staff shall spend more time on those in need of services. And users of public services should experience an improved public sector with fewer forms and better help. We will renew through more innovation in countries and municipalities and more cooperation between the public and private sectors and voluntary actors. We're going to renew by increasing the power of digitisation and increasing the use of ICT. Coordination of public IT services should be improved both within the state and between state and local authorities. Through more intensive and comprehensive IT efforts, the public sector meeting will be simpler and better, the quality of service provision will increase, value creation will increase, decisions will improve. Digital communication shall be the general rule for communication with the administration. The management shall provide integrated and user-friendly ICT services. We need to implement a municipal reform that will provide fewer and more robust municipalities. The goal is more local democracy and less state overarching, more responsibility for more tasks, because it provides a better service provision. There is broad political agreement on the need for a community reform, so that we can strengthen local democracy, so that we can strengthen the professional environment, so that we can get better services for the population. But there is also a strong desire for reform in municipalities, both because many municipalities experience strong state overgovernment, and because many municipalities see that they need stronger professional environments in order to provide better services to their citizens. We want to implement this reform in cooperation with Stortinget and in cooperation with the municipalities. I would therefore like to invite the Stortinget to cooperate on an important reform, and I hope that we can all have a pragmatic approach so that we can have a reform that can create more well-being for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1426	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1429	I would like to congratulate Jan Tore Sanner on having been responsible for many important policy areas, and I thank you for the invitation to cooperation. There are certainly many themes that we can get closer to. I am also pleased that the Council of State so clearly states that the government will continue the work of the red-green government started with the simplification and digitisation of the public sector. Now it is the case that the Council of State is also responsible for housing policy, which is an important area of a rapidly growing population. More than a year ago, on 17 December 2012, Jan Tore Sanner voted in favour of the following proposals in the Stortinget: «The government asks the government to ensure that the equity requirement for the purchase of the dwelling is reduced from 15 to 10 pst.» But after the election, Jan Tore Sanner said: «It is the Financial Supervision that establishes the equity requirement.» Why has the Council of State changed its mind?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1448	Let me first thank you for the congratulations, and I am glad that Helga Pedersen too wants to cooperate with the government to bring about important reforms. It is true that work was started on both simplification and digitisation. We want to put more pressure on that work both by seeing the community and the state in the context, by enabling us to achieve previous coordination, and by making work more effective. Then it is right that we are also responsible for housing policy. What's important in the grip we're now taking is that we can see plan and build together. I have registered that representatives of the Workers' Party have previously argued that this makes sense, so we have a good platform to work from. So it's true that we all want to meet ourselves at the door with different quotations. I believe that what we have in the platform in terms of the equity requirement makes sense. We're going to have a flexible practice, so that young people entering the housing market will not meet a barrier as high as you've done.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1459	One more line from representative Helga Pedersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1462	I do not think I received a proper response from the Council of State on the issue of the equity requirement. Just a few days before the election, the bourgeois parties stood right outside the Stortinget and promised that this was something to be removed when you came to government. It's not just us in the Workers' Party that's a little bit surprised that you're turning this position around. It is also the case that an overall housing industry has said that if this unanimous promise is broken, it will be a reproach to all the young people who have voted civilly because they need a place to live. What's the Council's comment on that?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1467	I might ask the representative Helga Pedersen to be a little more precise, because it is not that the Right has at any time proposed to remove the equity requirement. What we were opposed to was that the equity requirement was increased from 10 to 15 pst. without also implementing other instruments that could facilitate the entry of young people into the housing market. One of the instruments is to strengthen the BSU – Housing saving for young people. This government has said that we want to strengthen Housing Saving for Youth. Making it easier and more favourable to save more will also make it easier to manage a higher equity requirement. So we've decided on the platform that we want a more flexible practice, so that young people who have economic sustainability can get into the housing market without such a high barrier.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1474	First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Sanner on his position as Minister of State. It was a very exciting and ambitious plan we heard about in the light of a new reform to get better municipalities. It'll be exciting to catch up. We share the view of getting a broad political effort. We know what has happened in Denmark and in our neighbouring countries to do this. So I only have one question: can the Council of State suggest a timetable for this, how far can one imagine coming in this great period?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1481	Thanks again for the nice congratulations. I look forward to good cooperation with the Municipal Committee. I'm looking forward to doing a lot of problems together. It is true that a municipal reform has been carried out in Denmark, but municipal reform has also been carried out in Finland. And a lot of other countries are doing what we've been thinking: getting more robust municipalities, so you can get more local democracy and municipalities can do more tasks. We have said on the platform that we want decisions to be taken during this period. It is ambitious, but I think it is important that we in this reform work accept that things take time, that we have to have thorough processes that are anchored locally, while we have to keep pace with governance. Because now I feel that a lot of municipalities are saying that they want a reform, and then we, as politicians, are going to play with it, and not play against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1491	I would also like to congratulate Mr. Sanner on a new and very exciting position. Being a municipal minister is an important and very rewarding office. My question concerns regional and regional policy. In the setting of the National Transport Plan, the Right Party and the Progress Party wrote together that there is a market and free choice of people to control the construction pattern in the future. It shall be socio-economically viable no matter what industries and industries are at the heart of Future Norway. Today, after eight years of red-green government, we have population growth in all states and in more than 300 municipalities. Now we see that the regional department is gone. We're recording that district policy is gone. The word is not used in a central document. Is it the case that the new government will cut off all regional policy instruments and allow the market, people's free choice and socio-economic profitability to replace the broad regional and regional policies we have had in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1502	I have already used the opportunity to thank Navarsete for the key overlay. I've come to a department with a lot of skilled professionals, so I understand that Navarsete has been very brilliant after working with these competent professionals in the department. I've also received a lot of good advice. District policy is not gone. This government will have an ambitious district policy. In particular, municipalities in District Norway tell me that there is a problem with state override, that the decisions are being moved too far, and that there has been too much control and too much reporting. An active district policy is about a transport policy that allows goods to get faster and better access throughout the country. An active district policy is about a strong and robust business life, facilitating entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized enterprises, and a community reform that improves the professional environment in all parts of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1511	I would also like to take this opportunity to congratulate Jan Tore Sanner on a very important position and a large portfolio. The Council of State itself was involved in this with renewal and simplification, which the Left very much agrees with. There is a lot to go about in terms of public sector simplification. One of the first things we think we should do is look at the ICT systems in the sector. Here are many who have their own systems. In our opinion, one should have developed a common system that would have made this considerably easier for both internal and external users and the public. In order to achieve this, a standard is needed for the systems. If the Council of State agrees to this, the further follow-up to it is whether the Council of State has given some thought to how to get the necessary simplification of ICT systems in the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1520	I'm glad of the co-operation invitation. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left are united on the cooperation agreement, where innovation and simplification are at the heart of the process and also the desire for a community reform. The opportunity we now have with the new department is not only to look at the state, but also to look at the state and municipality in the context. I very much agree with the questioner that there is a need for more common platforms, and that we need to look at the ICT work and platforms in full and ensure that we get digitisation done, so that there is more day-to-day management. We've started that work. I don't have all the answers to how it should be done concretely now after four to five days, but I can promise that we will come back to it, and that we have the common understanding, that is, as many common platforms as possible, so that there will be less silage sinking and more fully also in the ICT systems.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1531	I too would like to congratulate Mr Sanner. As a member of the Municipal Committee, I'm sure I'll have the opportunity to discuss reforms and renewal with him. I hope that it will be based on trust and not on coercion, and that local democracy will be taken seriously, for example. that there is no coercion if you do not want to be merged. But there's something that worries me. We have a very diverse country. And it says in the government statement that the government will change the income system in such a way that the rich municipalities, which have large incomes, will retain more of their incomes. It will necessarily affect municipalities that have less opportunities to earn income, because there are quite different conditions. Everything is not like in Bærum in this country. And there won't be any less distances, fewer islands and lower mountains because the Right comes into government. That is why I need to ask the representative if it is such that the Right promised in the election campaign, namely that no municipalities would lose on this conversion, stands firm.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1538	Let me first say that it was an easy rewrite of what is on the platform in terms of the income system. It is not on the platform to implement changes in the income system that make rich municipalities even richer, but it says that we should have a comprehensive review of the income system. The reason we want that is because we have to reward municipalities that facilitate business development. We want more municipalities to retain more of their own income, but this is of course to be carried out in a predictable way, which makes municipalities experience both a robust and a good municipal economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1543	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1546	Norway is a country with small differences and great opportunities. Of course, we still have unresolved tasks in this country. New tasks and challenges are emerging, and we are moving towards new goals. At the same time, we can see today that very much is going well in this country, and that eight years of red-green government has strengthened Community solutions and given new opportunities for more. New jobs have been created, and the population is increasing. Also in the north, moving away is replaced by growth. A major boost is being made in culture, assistance and transport, and not least in knowledge and well-being. Thousands of new children have been given kindergarten. There are more people employed in nursing homes, and there are more teachers in school. Education and welfare services for all are a prerequisite for achieving the objective of justice, equal opportunities and personal freedom. That is why we are behind the government platform's objectives of strengthening health services, expanding care for the elderly and the care of drug users, employing more teachers and strengthening the social security network. It is then important to have a strong municipal economy, because it is the municipalities that are responsible for the school, for the care of the elderly and for many other welfare tasks. Municipalities have had a significant economic upturn in the last eight years. From 2005 until now, the revenues of municipalities have increased by nearly 70 billion. NOK, which has provided room for 59 000 new annual works. In the budget for next year, the red-green government has proposed a further escalation of municipal income. In the last eight years, municipalities have not only expanded their services to a large extent, but we also see that the economic situation in Norwegian municipalities has improved significantly. In May 2005, the status was that 116 municipalities – more than every fourth municipality – were in financial imbalances. Now the Right and Advance Party takes over a municipal sector where less than 50 municipalities are in the ROBEK register. I have noticed that the government platform does not contain objectives for the local economy and growth in the free revenues. Therefore, I would like to take this opportunity today to stress that ambitions for better school and more elderly care need to be followed up with a good community economy and also a fair distribution between municipalities. I fear that the notification of the conversion of the income system that the tax-intensive municipalities will retain more of their income will mean that all the other municipalities that lose income will have to cut off their welfare services. I've read the government platform, and one of the formulations that I'm a little worried about is that ‘Production of welfare services differs little from other services’. That's what the government says. They say that's why that's why «completely necessary for competition to become a horizontal element of public activity». No one disagrees that the public should learn from private or non-profit actors where they do things better, or that the public should use competition and tenders where appropriate. But having responsibility for well-being and care is something other than emptying the garbage or operating the hotel – with all due respect for those who do it. Preparing our kids for life itself, helping child-restraints and drug addicts for a new life, caring for our elderly are not products to be commercialised. It's simply a basic task in a society where people care about each other. Those who work in nursing homes and in child protection do not need first and foremost more competition. They need local politicians with economic space and flexibility to find the solutions that are appropriate for each community.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1571	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1574	The voters gave the non-socialist parties an historic majority – a clear message from the voters that they now wanted parties to see the need to think new, to act new and to build new ones, not least in the transport sector. When the red-green government talked about fulfilling the NTP, the reality was the opposite, because in terms of the road, it now lacks almost 4 pst. to comply with the national transport plan. In 2014 only 21.1 pst is fulfilled. of the total over the next four years. Faster, simpler and safer will characterise the government's new policy in the transport sector. Will the Labour Party be involved in making the necessary efforts to get a real boost in the transport sector now?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1583	Transport has been a high priority area for the red-green government. That is why we have also had a historic boost for both road, track and – not least – fishing ports. Everyone who has moved around the country sees that the road is being built, sees that it is being invested in orbit. And everyone doesn't see it, but you also know that fairways are secured along the coast. Of course, we are positive that this development is going to continue. We have noted the ambitions of the Right and the Advance Party in the election campaign and are looking forward to the follow-up of appropriations in the state budget to be submitted in a few weeks' time. It's not right, as they say here, that you've only had three weeks to prepare your first government budget. You've had eight years, and I'm excited to see the result.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1591	The representative Pedersen talked a lot about distributing the values, but she didn't say anything about how to create the values. In fact, apart from the oil and gas industry, the Norwegian industry wears. Competitiveness has worsened in recent years. At the same time, in a number of areas, we have poorer framework conditions than the countries that it's natural to compare ourselves to. We have higher taxes and taxes in Norway than most other countries with which we compete. We have higher transport costs than most countries – it is due, among other things, to: a bad name – and we also have a significant form fields that might cost Norwegian companies as much as 60 billion. SEK – 60 000 million. kr – every year. My question is: does the representative Pedersen believe that framework conditions have a bearing on competitiveness, or is the weakening of competitiveness only some other countries' fault?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1600	I fully agree that the Norwegian framework conditions are very important for the ability of companies to run and employ new people. So it's also a fact that Norway is an open economy. We export most of what we make and produce in this country, so it's also very important what happens in the countries around us. It is amazing that this country has managed so well through the international financial crisis and the euro crisis that has led millions of Europeans to the day off. In Norway, 355,000 new jobs have been created, most of them in the private sector. The red-green government has conducted a responsible economic policy and has done a great deal of work to simplify and reduce the form field. I want the new government to be happy to continue that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1607	After all, the representative Helga Pedersen has helped to raise important issues of value into this room today, and in our country yesterday, the Party Secretary Raymond Johansen could also do the same. He said yesterday that he believes that the Workers' Party's tone has been too bastant in several contaminated valuables. Now he's warning change: ‘We need to formulate ourselves with more caution when talking about difficult questions. Too often, we are perceived as too bastant in matters where there are actually good reasons to have doubts." In the case of reservation access, which I expect is part of the kind of issues referred to, we cannot exactly say that there has been a lack of bastante statements, either from Torgeir Micaelsen or from Helga Pedersen. So my question is, why have you made sure to disappoint your own party secretary then to those degrees already after one day?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1617	I and the Party Secretary in the Workers' Party have an excellent relationship, and I don't think we see any difference in these questions. I have great respect for the fact that both individuals and other parties have a different position on this kind of question than the Workers' Party and I have. I think the Christian People's Party deserves recognition and commendation for having the same attitude in these questions after the election as one had in the election campaign. Unfortunately, the same cannot be said about the Right Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1624	There are two documents on the basis of which this matter was handled in Stortinget. It's Prime Minister Erna Solberg's speech on the basis of the government of Solberg, and it's the throne speech presented by the red-green government. On the basis of the new government, it says that the ‘climate agreement must be reinforced’, and a number of measures have been put in place, ranging from public transport to an increased deduction for the conversion of own homes as an important tax deduction to ensure that our homes are also more energy-efficient. On the other hand, what we can read in the census, which is the policy of the red-green government, is that the government will follow up – not reinforce – the climate message and the climate agreement and continue to work for effective mitigation measures for climate emissions nationally and internationally. We've seen SV be very offensive in the pulpit. Why did the Workers' Party keep down when these formulations were decided?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1633	The working party has not held the SV down in any way. On the contrary, the Workers' Party and SV, together with the Centre Party, have conducted an offensive climate policy in government. In 2007, the red-green government presented a climate communication that became completely new and groundbreaking for Norwegian climate policy, and it has since been followed up in other different policy areas – including through the climate agreement that we got here at Stortinget. The Labour Party will continue to defend a responsible climate policy and would like to get in the way of new measures, and I look forward to good cooperation with the Left here on the Stortinget to further develop Norwegian climate policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1638	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1641	Norway is a good country to live in for most people. Thanks to our enormous oil wealth, we have an economy and a foundation that most countries can only dream of. However, Norway faces many important challenges in the future, and one of the most important – perhaps the most important – is to provide a good basis for growth, value creation and employment. We have to create to be able to distribute. Despite the fact that we have had a record low interest rate for a long time, a high level of private consumption partly financed by loans, a high level of activity in the housing market and, not least, a record high oil price, we have seen recent trends in rising unemployment. It's a cause for concern. Norway is a small country, we're a little over five million inhabitants, and we have a long distance from the big markets. We have very high wage costs, we should be proud of that. But then, of course, it is important that the other framework conditions, such as: tax, taxes, form fields and infrastructure, are not worse than our competitors. Today, unfortunately, we have poorer framework conditions than our competitors. Therefore, the competitiveness of Norwegian companies has steadily deteriorated, except for the oil and gas industry that lives well on a high oil price. But in the rest of the industry there is a poorer situation, and of course there is a risk of closure, deflagration and loss of Norwegian jobs. We also live in a very uncertain value. In the U.S., a person has survived for many years and is still in debt. In Asia, Japan has a huge government debt and problems in getting good economic growth, and in China we may not know everything that happens, but at least everything suggests that they have significantly lower growth now than they had a few years ago. Much of Europe is struggling with significant debt challenges and mass unemployment — especially among young people. It is in this situation that the new government and the Storting must set the course for the future. We must also be on the verge of a new downfall in the world economy. This means, of course, that we need to strengthen competitiveness, we need to develop smarter and more creatively. In addition, it is necessary to improve the framework conditions. Debureaucratisation and simplification, tax relief and better infrastructure are key. Having poorer frame conditions than our competitors will be almost like competing on hundreds of yards with backpacks and rubber boots while competitors run with high heels and without backpacks. Therefore, it is entirely decisive that the framework conditions in Norway are competitive in relation to the countries with which it is natural to compare. Investment in better roads, railways and broadband is a good investment in infrastructure that increases value creation both in the short and long term. Tax incentives provide better competitiveness for businesses and also greater freedom for individuals. Simplification and red tape are important, and estimates suggest that form fields and reporting cost Norwegian enterprises approximately. 60 B.C.E. NOK – or 60000 million. kr – every year. This means that a lot of labour and resources that could produce values are lost in useless bureaucracy. In addition, of course, this bureaucracy costs something when it comes to public expenditure. Fortunately, we now have a multiplicity and a government that is concerned with this issue, which is concerned with value creation and safe jobs, which has a generation perspective in its policy, and which is concerned not only with allocating values but also with creating them before they can be distributed. We need to lay the foundation for Norwegian competitiveness and well-being – not just four years in time, but in a generation perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1660	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1663	I would like to ask the representative, Mr. Hagesetter, about something a little bit different from what he said in his post, because the representative has made an effort for the country not only as a national authority, but also as a representative of the Defence. In some interviews he has told me about how it has been to get into a shooting situation in Lebanon. He told the NRK in August this year that the experiences in Lebanon have influenced him: "It's the most intense and powerful minutes I've experienced in my 52-year-old life. I am overconfident that it has influenced me in many ways, both in good and bad." Gardening kits are part of a party that wants general weapons in the police. This means that men and women in uniform should draw weapons in far more situations than today. How does the representative Hageseter see that his decision about general armaments – at good and bad – will characterize these men and women?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1677	Now we have not opened up general weapons, but we have suggested that the police districts themselves should consider general weapons where appropriate. I think that's very important because we have an increasing challenge when it comes to crime, we have mafiatendensar and organized crime in some places, and we have international gangs, etc. Which means that the police have to be more banned and more equipped than they had to be a few decades ago. Therefore, the government of the government platform has opened up in order for the police districts themselves to be able to assess general armaments where appropriate. We believe that is very good and positive – and that this will lead to a safer society.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1685	In the cooperation agreement between the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party, we have signed on a common case on the statutory right to the care of happiness when there is a medical need for it. What is the pace for the Progress Party and the Government to introduce this?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1692	That's exactly what the representative here refers to in the government platform. It is very important for both government parties – and for the Progress Party – that one secures the rights of those who need it and secures the rights of the users. That's what we think is important to ensure that good services can be provided, that is, that one should not be nearly forced to stand by, but that one has a concrete, legal right that triggers day-to-day care. What time and how this is going to be done, and the details in it, I think she understands that I can't go into it right now. But this is the direction we're showing, and we think it's a positive direction, and that this gives stronger dishes and better services to the residents of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1697	The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change published its fifth main report in autumn. There is better scientific evidence that increased CO2 content in the atmosphere is man-made than the scientific basis for smoking cigarettes being harmful to health. It's strong. We have to change course, and Norway has the financial capacity. Fossil carbon from oil, gas and coal is the problem, and it's cheap. Renewable carbon from, inter alia: Plants are part of the solution, but are not profitable. My question is: will the Progress Party in the government offices work to correct market forces so that fossil carbon is taxed and, among other things. used to make renewable carbon profitable?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1707	I note that the representative Lundtigen uses the outline ‘correct the market forces’. I would rather use the notion of ‘using market forces’. This is on the government platform, and we have said that based on where we are leading, we need to put in place measures to reduce CO2. Some are already in progress, this applies to electric cars, etc., and then there are many other steps that need to be taken when this is the case. So there the government has pointed out a clear and clear course. I am absolutely sure that we will have a lot to do in this area, and I did not think that the detroping government has so much to boast about when it comes to action in that area. One has certainly been more concerned with getting a trust recognition from the Progress Party on whether it is man-made or not. But measures have been less of an option.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1717	It is fascinating to hear the representatives of the Progress Party talk about how bad things are in Norway, even after they have won the election. One would think it was Europe's backbone The Progress Party took over as a government party – a kind of bankruptcy residence. This is a glittering occasion in the debate to talk about what to do. There has been little concrete in the hall today. The most concrete thing we have now learned about what to do is that the Right will bind its representatives on a particular matter. That might not be so strange, because when the figures of the Progress Party have been concrete lately, it hasn't done very well. One of the plays I've noticed is that Jørund Rytman in the nutrition committee opens up to export Norwegian weapons to Israel. Someone might call it smarter and more creative, which the representative Hagesetter was in. The Progress Party has announced a more balanced Middle East policy, so my question is: is it arms exports to Israel that represent a more balanced Middle East policy, and will the Progress Party go in for arms exports to Israel?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1724	No, it was not arms exports that were in my mind when I said we had to strengthen competitiveness. But what's being said here is that I'm kind of saying how bad things are in Norway. I can't find that again in my post, but we have some significant challenges. Apart from oil and gas, we have an industry that has lost competitiveness in recent years. Of course, it's a challenge, because we're of the opinion that we have to create the values in order for us to be able to distribute them. It is not always as obvious that SV is concerned about – creating the values before we distribute them – it works that SV is most concerned with distributing. But then it is clear that we need to improve the framework conditions, we need to reduce tax and tax pressures, we need to build infrastructure that will reduce transport costs both for business and for private individuals, and, last but not least, we need to reduce the form considerably.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1729	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1732	I will begin by expressing optimism in view of the woes of family policy and well now that we have a new government with a completely different view of the family, and not least trust in the family, as expressed both here in the Chamber and in view of what is part of the cooperation agreement between the government parties and the Christian People's Party and the Left. It gives hope that we can focus more on and, in particular, return to family policy. Humans are created to be in common. The family is the first, and for many the most important, of all the communities we through life are part of. For children, the family is perhaps the most basic arena of belonging, proximity and community. Stable and safe families provide safe children who grow up to be safe adults. We know that not all children are well at home. And when children don't have it well at home, society has to intervene. The outgoing government is to be commended for the fact that, over the last few years, there has been more money, more government money, for the protection of children, but we know that there is a need for additional funding here. I have a hope and a wish that the new government will see the needs of child protection, and that we will continue to have a stepping-up plan in that area. No later than today, we learned the news that 800 foster home children have no supervisor, just to point to one area where there are gaps, and where we have to do far, far more. Breakups are painful for all those involved, not least for the children. The Christian People's Party, both in the previous period and through our programme, has called for increased efforts in the field of community action and parental guidance, such as the following: the family protection offices around it. In addition to the important statutory work, the Family Protection Offices carry out outward information and training activities aimed at both the auxiliaries and the public. They offer preventive measures to people at different stages of family life. I think it's a little strange, and not least disappointing, that the dwindling government – the red-green government – has chosen to spend eight years in government systematically stepping down the preventive family protection. In their last submission to the State budget, the state grants are fully phased into a life course. I hope that the new government will rectify this, because there is a need for increased resources for the prevention of family protection – not for the escalation – so that there is more room for prevention. In their preventive work, family protection can alter the high level of competence they have acquired through their mediation, and prevention can lead to fewer children and parents experiencing a break in their lives. It may strengthen the possibility of good parental cooperation after a break. The life courses offered by or with the support of the family protection offices are very broad-spectrumed, and increasing emphasis is placed on involving the children and their needs. It is time for the red-greens to be replaced by a stepping up of this important work. The Christian People's Party is going to contribute what we can, and we hope that the two government parties see the same value of this as the Christian People's Party does, so that we can rebuild what the red-greens now have spent eight years building up completely.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1749	The debate on the throne confirms that we are living in a country where things are going quite well. The debate has also confirmed, with some exceptions, that it is not least because there has been a stable economic policy, which has been important for Norwegian business and for the development of the Norwegian economy. In its Declaration of Accession, the Right and the Progressive Party choose to follow up much of what has already been proposed or adopted by the Red-Green Government. In many ways, the government has given thought to its declaration of accession, which is so general that almost all parties can join it. This applies not least to business policy, where the new Minister of Industry in the newspapers also states that 95 pst. of the new government's policy will be similar to that of the red-green government. This also applies to the maritime sector, where the desire for short-sea shipping strategy is quite similar to that put forward by the red-green government. This may not apply to agriculture and fisheries, but we know little about it because these industries were not mentioned at all in the Declaration of Accession. So in these areas, what the government is going to do remains to be seen. What we know is that the ostetoll wasn't removed, as the Right Party and the Advance Party promised their voters with bragging and bram before the election. However, in addition to this, the uncertainty is high among almost 90,000 agricultural and food industry practitioners about what is going to happen in the future. The answer to that may not be given in the first few weeks, but this is probably going to be a central debate in this big period. The risk in this area is said to be about what is going to happen to the schemes that are set up to ensure good conditions for agriculture throughout the country, but let me mention that it is also about something else. It is about the fact that this government — eager to find money for tax relief — may reduce the scope of food security and control measures, or may fall for the temptation to increase the food tax for tax relief to other groups. These are measures that in the case of agricultural industry are going to hit the agricultural industry in themselves, but these are also measures that could directly affect Norwegian consumers, in the form of minor controls on food, or in the form of more expensive food. The centre batch will contribute to increased food production and contribute to safe food for consumers. It requires an agricultural investment across the country, it requires us to use the land we have in all parts of the country to produce food. It does not come off the hook, and it requires the further development of agricultural income and welfare systems. The centre party will contribute to a business policy where innovation and research are at the centre, where the knowledge-based business that we see the results of every single day will be given a good leeway. We want an active business policy across the country, and it will require a good interaction between the public and private sectors. It will also require willingness to develop regionally, and it will require that we pay attention to the product-producing sector of industry – forestry, fisheries, maritime and offshore supply industries, to mention something. The central party looks forward to the practical follow-up of the promises they have made by the government – not only those laid down in the government platform, but also those promises that they made clearly to their voters before the elections. The parties agreed on much that they do not now signal in the Declaration of Accession to follow up. But also this government must find itself in being measured on the promises they gave to their voters before the election. The centre party is going to be a constructive and critical opposition party. We are going to work for a policy that sees all parts of this country, that promote regional development, and that contributes to a good and robust business life throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1766	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1769	I understand that the central party shares the government's view that the government will control the municipalities less, and that the municipalities will have more authority on more issues than today. And by showing greater trust in communities and creating more living local democracy, the government will stimulate local creativity, increasing growth and commitment to building stronger communities. It has a purpose that I think the Center Party will be able to end up about. In concrete terms, the government proposes that the State should have a limited opportunity to review the judgements of local people, that objections from the State on land matters need to be coordinated and reduced, that municipalities should be given authority on issues relating to motor travel in the countryside, the establishment of small-scale power stations and the management of local protection areas, in order to mention something. The centre party is now released after eight years in company with lots that are not exactly known for having the same basic attitude as themselves in relation to the relationship between the municipality and the state. Can the representative Arnstad use this opportunity to clarify whether the Centre Party will use its new and free role in Stortinget to support the initiatives I have mentioned, so that Norwegian communities and local authorities can have greater autonomy at the expense of state and government bodies?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1777	The representative Jensen is right in saying that the centre party is occupied by local democracy. For eight years we have contributed to the most important condition for better local democracy, which is a good economy out in the municipalities. We have helped to improve the municipal economy in such a way that municipalities can carry out the important tasks they have in not least well-being. So that's the most important condition, and it's going to be interesting to see how the government that's now sitting is going to follow it up. We will see and evaluate every proposal from the government as it comes. But I fear that the condition attached to some of the proposals that Jensen put up here will be that the municipalities will no longer be the local democracy they are today, but that it will be a completely different local democracy – with far larger municipalities and with fewer elected people and thus less direct democratic governance.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1784	It was said that one had made good arrangements for agriculture. I have to be able to say – without taking too hard – that the farmers haven't exactly been standing and cheering in the last eight years. It is true that since October 2005, around 6 500 farms have been closed. two to three farms per day. Approximately 356 000 covered agricultural land has been withdrawn from production, which is approximately equivalent. 140 deches a day. Then my question is: Since the outgoing government did not make any major changes to the state budget, it is then natural to assume that with their policies it would be put down approximately. 3 000 farms in the next few years, and that about 125 000 covers of cultivated land would be withdrawn from production?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1791	There have been varying agricultural settlements over time. I remember the time when the partner of the Progress Party was in the right-wing government last – then it became a minimum offer, and it was great demonstrations about the agricultural industry and the agricultural industry's framework conditions and future. So it's been different, but I have the impression that this industry has been reasonably satisfied with the red-green government's commitment to income opportunities, but also to the welfare offers in the industry, and that's not least important. Agriculture is an industry that has experienced a very strong efficiency improvement in recent years. It is very effective, more than possibly many other product producing industries in Norway. 6 pst. per year is probably some of the better things you can do. Then there have been terminations of use, that's quite right. It is clear that this is a trend you want to counteract, which you will never quite be able to stop, but I strongly doubt that some of the prescriptions that the Progress Party will include in its agricultural policy will help to slow that decline. On the contrary, it will be escalated.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1800	I cannot avoid asking the former Council of State in the field of transport a small question: it is a small paradox when the Council of State of Solvik-Olsen now sees that the departments have received a number of contacts in the field of transport that are interesting for us who are in charge of a blue-blue policy. Both Meltveit Kleppa and Navarsete – as well as the former Minister of Transport who is here today – have submitted requests for investigation to the Department in a number of areas, which, at least in the public space, appear to be good both Advance Party and Right-wing policies. And then it's time to ask if the former Council of State, which is now standing on its own legs, on behalf of the Center Party, will be able to support good proposals – both in line with what the Department answers, and what our government will present – when these come to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1805	Transport is an area where results are generated every day, and the red-green government made very good results in that area over the course of its eight years. We got a shaky rail bet on the rails again after the Bondevik II administration had almost driven the railway in the ditch. We have built over 1,000 km of new highway. There has been strong economic investment in transport in Norway, but it is clear that there is also a great need. There's no doubt about it. But there is no quick fix on the transport area. In today's evening post I see that it refers to a number of investigations that have been made. Yes, a number of investigations were carried out in connection with the national transport plan. Every time a national transport plan is implemented, and the main conclusion to some of the problems and challenges outlined is that there is no quick fix here. There are no easy opportunities, and there are no easy solutions that allow you to circumvent the rule of action. You actually have to be responsible for the rules of action and financial accountability, and it's going to be the government's biggest challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1814	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1817	The green shift is in progress. A myriad of processes and initiatives, across countries and sectors, drive development slowly, but safely away from the fossil. A concise example illustrates this well: The cost of producing current from the sun and wind has fallen by 68 pst. and 30 pst. for the period 2005 to 2012. Renewable production is increasing. In 2012, renewable energy sources accounted for almost 70 pst. of all new production capacity in the EU. The corresponding figure for the United States is 50 pst. China scaled from 5 GW to 35 GW in the summer capacity target by 2015. The global electric car market has more than doubled to 113 000 vehicles in 2012. The target is 20 million cars by 2020. Both the EU, the United States and China have introduced requirements for more fuel-rich vehicles. Financial institutions say no to coal. During the summer, the US Export Credit Council, the World Bank and the European Investment Bank have decided no longer to finance coal-fired power plants. Gas is being pushed by renewable energy, which is becoming cheaper and prevails over the mains. European energy giants are losing a lot on fossil power plants, and others have announced that they will shut down a significant number of fossil power plants in time to come. The paradigm shift from fossils to renewables is startling. For the next four years, Norway will decide whether to join the winning team or not in this context in fierce and loving competition with good neighbours. The EU is on track with the target of at least 20 pst. renewable energy by 2020 and is already on track for the 2030 targets. Germany is at the forefront of the transitions. In a short time, they're up to 23 pst. renewable power. The target is 35 pst. by 2020 and 80 pst. by 2050. Denmark decided last year to have 100 pst. renewable energy by 2050. New technologies and energy carriers replacing fossil energy bring new opportunities for Norwegian industry and the Norwegian technology development environment. For offshore wind power only, investment is expected to increase to 130 billion. EUR by 2020. New technologies will replace fossil energy with renewable energy in emerging areas. If the world is to come close to the emission reductions required by the 2-degree target, renewable energy becomes a scarce resource only within 10-20 years. Breaking Norway's various renewable technology codes, such as profitable sea wind, pumping power, geothermal, large scale industrial production of hydrogen, to name a few, can be a breakthrough in Norway's taking over the position as an energy storm power even in the renewable age. Norway has a moral responsibility as a rich energy nation to lead the way in the transition to the low-carbon society, and we can make a difference. At the same time, we have strong self-interest in positioning us right when it owes us a future with less fossil fuel. Taking action now, the green shift will give the supplier industry, the process industry, existing and new energy producers, the research environment and technology founders enormous growth opportunities. It guarantees fruitful cooperation when the government, on the basis of the Cooperation Agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party, underlines the importance and the need for the climate reconciliation to be reinforced, and that research and technological development efforts must be strengthened. The left in this area is going to be a constructive opposition party, with an arsenal of concrete policies and solutions. How demanding we are perceived to be depends entirely on the degree of practical will and action the government shows in following up its own formulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1853	The basis for this debate is both the census and the Prime Minister's statement, and in terms of political content and clear ambitions in the future, I would say that this time was the inauguration of His Majesty the King considerably better than the later post of the Prime Minister. On the same day as the census was held, we heard the story of the state of the kingdom. This is the starting point for the settlement that the new government takes over, and it may not have happened in history that a government has taken over a country in better condition than the government is doing now. We have a school that has undergone clear improvements — which is also reflected in results in international comparisons, but still with clear plans to move forward, because you are not satisfied. We have a health sector that produces more healthcare and better quality than ever before, but with clear plans to improve health. We have investments in the road and track that have never been higher, but with clear plans and ambitions to increase the rate of investment. We have a business with a high degree of innovation, innovation and adaptability, with clear plans for continued simplification and further development. We also have Europe's lowest leave. The government statement we heard was obviously meant to dampen the expectations. Much of what was said can all agree, and there are continuations of the efforts that the previous government has already made. There are some changes in the course, which do not upset me at least: if it were to be such that the municipalities are more able to dispensate from a central, strict code for snowmobile driving, I am not upset by it. But what I'm much more excited about is how the new government has planned to meet the challenges that are not mentioned in the presentation – especially with regard to what party leader Siv Jensen said at the Country Meeting of the Progress Party that the Norwegian model stands in the way of the Norwegian people. The Norwegian model, with its economic model, presupposes that we have a tax system that finances well-being, while at the same time allocating economies among people. This makes us more similar in Norway than in most other countries in the world. It is a model of cooperation that makes the social partners not only contribute to central wage formation, which gives us relatively equal wages or, as the Right has called it in some big papers: a compressed pay structure, which we think is good, because we value everyone's contributions and everyone's work in society but which has also given the trade movement and employers influence over the pension system, which makes it possible to bring about changes with unity and without much noise in this country. Take the welfare model: we're all concerned about having a good school, but there's still to be seen whether there's going to be privatisation at the very bottom of primary school. It will kind of end the era where everyone has the same opportunity to get good education in this country. Or take the health service: everyone has the same opportunity to get the same offer within a publicly managed health service. It remains to be seen. It is not clear in the government's statement. The Norwegian model has given us Europe's lowest unemployment rate. Yeah, actually, when we're standing here now, it's like our closest neighboring country, Sweden, has more than twice as high off as we do. Yes, as of today, if we compare unemployment rates in Sweden and Norway and use Nav figures on unemployment for the immigrant population, the probability of being unemployed is higher if you are Swedish than if you are immigrants in Norway. There is no need to be inspired by the policy that has given the results in our neighbouring countries. It is a heavy responsibility for the government to take over Europe's lowest unemployment rate, and the country in which the United Nations has gradually headed for the world's best country to live. I wish the government the best of luck from a constructive opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1885	The election gave a historic majority of the bourgeois parties – the largest since 1930. The right has made the third best choice since the war, and the country is now ruled by a Prime Minister from the Right for the first time in almost a quarter of a century. We didn't win the election because the voters wanted new faces, but because they wanted a government with new ideas and better solutions; a government that acknowledges that Norway is a good country to live in, but also a country with all the prerequisites to become even better. Norway at its best is a country with opportunities for all, a country that has as high ambitions for children as its children have for themselves. Children's ambitions are our future. If we keep our children back, we keep society back. One of the most important things that a government can do with a generation perspective is therefore to invest more in school knowledge and to ensure that teachers are even better equipped to challenge the strong and promise the weak by providing teachers with more career paths and more and better continuing training. No one is such a good educator that he can learn away what he himself cannot. Education is an important part of the school's purpose, but education – I think we can agree on this – is even more important. The red-green government also talked about increasing the bet on continuing education for teachers, but not until it had been sitting for almost eight years and without having any executive power. With the new bourgeois government, we have finally received a government that from day one puts the emphasis on teachers' continuing training at the top of the priority list. Much goes well in Norway, but there are also some danger signals. In recent years productivity growth has failed, and the competitiveness of the mainland industry has deteriorated significantly. The level of costs is far above that of our partners, and the gap continues to rise. From 20 pst. Over our trading partners in the EU a few years ago, we are now 70 pst. over. This gives cause for concern about the jobs in mainland Norway. We already see that unemployment is increasing in the wake of difficult times, for example. the forest industry and traditional export industries, and the employment rate has been on a downward trend for five strict years. Unemployment is increasing, but an even greater challenge is that a significant proportion of the pre-age population are out of work. The new government has a clear ambition to do more for those who can and will contribute, but who lack basic skills and a new chance of getting back into activity and work. Norway cannot compete for the cheapest. We have to be the best. Therefore, world-class research, innovation and university environments are crucial to ensuring the competitiveness of Norway in the coming years. It is also crucial to solve the greatest challenge of our time: a transition to a sustainable low-carbon society here at home and out. Norway has technology, competence and capital to contribute to new solutions that can both reduce emissions and strengthen the competitiveness of Norwegian companies. The government will pursue an ambitious climate policy and strengthen climate reconciliation. Good framework conditions for enterprises in Norway are essential to ensure the competitiveness of the mainland industry and to give Norway more leeway. We have never been more dependent on the receipts of petroleum than we are today. The government will use the yield of the petroleum industry within the framework of the rule of action to invest for the future in knowledge and research, infrastructure and environmental technologies and growth-promoting tax reliefs. We have to use more of the space we have today to build the country and the society we want tomorrow. The government will invest more in public transport in and around the big cities, building more railways and more and better roads. The development of large-scale transport projects must be completed, and we must give priority to the most important thing. We want to reduce the form field and bureaucracy and make sure it pays more to work and create new jobs. The government will have a simpler everyday life for everyone, not least those who are trying to create their own and others' jobs. A good society should be measured by how the community takes care of those who are not so simple to speak their own case – those who need our common help most. The government will pay particular attention to those who are struggling with alcohol or mental health problems, who have been in public queues for the last few years when they could receive private treatment. If we are to solve the major challenges in the health sector, we must use all the good forces and recognise that although there is a great deal of competence in the public sector, state and local authorities have no monopoly on good ideas. The government will pursue a policy underpinning strong welfare societies with good public welfare systems, a society based on trust in individuals and families, communities and entrepreneurs, and providing opportunities for all. This is how we realize Norway at its best.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1911	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1914	First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Astrup on a prominent position in Højre's new big business group. I wish him luck. I can promise that having prominent positions in parties with government power is exciting, but it is sometimes also challenging, so good luck. Following the platform presented by Prime Minister Erna Solberg, there has been a lot of debate on the absence of the ninth main issue, namely the global climate and environmental challenge. I just want to have a quick check on it, because I am very much in agreement with Nikolai Astrup's analysis and many proposals in climate and environmental policy. I think he has the right approach to, for example, breaking the chain between GDP growth and CO2 emissions, and I'm glad he says he's going to contribute to a new, reinforced climate settlement. Can Astrup guarantee that if the opposition makes proposals the government itself has not come along and is good that he will then support them?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1927	Unlike the previous government, this government intends to listen to good proposals made by the Stortinget, including in climate policy. It is true that climate policy was not among the eight items listed in the government platform, but it is important to stress that climate policy is part of the government’s value base and is therefore to permeate everything the government does. So I'd like to add that the Workers' Party's Grand Prix programme has five main priorities for the next period. None of them are about climate. So it's very good if the representative Mikalsen and his party traps are going to be drivers of climate policy. We welcome that, but there is nothing in his party programme that points to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1934	The political platform for the Right and the Progressive Party has, among other things: as an expressed objective to reduce red tape. Its name is, among other things, att ‘unnecessary red tape defeats our business for competitiveness. Founders, business owners and employees shall be allowed more time for the creation of valuables and less time for the completion of forms». In which areas will businesses notice that their everyday lives have become simpler?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1944	I don't think I'm going to be shooting at the work on simplification, for which the government has great ambitions. The very specific points we have to get back to. But I think everyone who has spoken to self-employed people in recent years can sign that there are many forms and a lot of bureaucracy that you have to deal with. I think it is absolutely necessary to create safe jobs in Norway that we reduce the burden that the form field and bureaucracy are for businessmen and for people most in everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1949	The representative, Astrup, mentioned in his statement that he wanted to build the country. In its Declaration of Accession, the Government states that the country should be built, inter alia: by making the cities grow rooms. The same statement also states that the government will take care of good food, but balance soil protection against the needs of the big society. In the election campaign, the Prime Minister said that growing land around the big cities must give cities room to grow. In Trondheim, it can mean the reduction of 1000 targets of cultivated land. We have approx. 3 pst. land grown in Norway. Does the representative, Mr Astrup, who is the spokesperson for environmental policy, believe that soil protection is an important environmental value? Or can we now expect the development to be given the right to run in relation to soil protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1956	This is a problem that needs to be weighed in the individual case. It is clear that we had said a hundred years ago that soil protection should be so strong that Oslo cannot join Aker and expand the municipality within what is today's borders, it would have been very unfortunate. Now we're in a different situation. That's absolutely right. Agriculture has a great value. Food soils are important. At the same time, there will be isolated cases in which the needs of the big society must take precedence. It would be totally wrong to go into this as a general problem. It must be assessed on a case-by-case basis as to what is appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1961	Since we are so in agreement that we now have an even more offensive climate policy, I leave it. Another area: One of the things I'm proud to have contributed to in the last eight years is that although there's a lot of mess in Norway, the economic differences between people have flattened out – they've even gone down a little bit. There's a breach of a megatrend in the entire Western world. The parliamentary leader of the Workers' Party was concerned with this in his statement. There are so many features of the global economy and society that are moving towards increasing inequality. We have been committed by the Labour Party to supporting proposals that can be a political counterweight to many of these forces. Among other things, we have made some substantial changes to the tax system and changes to the welfare system to counteract this. I hear right some time has talked about it being an important goal with our country that there should be small differences. Can Astrup say anything about what his four-year target is going to be for the statistics on these questions?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1970	There is a quality in Norwegian society that we have seen relatively small differences. The challenge is that, not least after eight years with a red-green government, very many children still grow up in poor families. That is why the government has said in its government statement that it wants to prioritise and lift children out of poverty. I think that's positive, so we prevent poor children from becoming poor adults. It's about creating a society with opportunities for everyone, which I was also in my post. I'm perhaps more concerned than the representative Micasen to make the poor richer than to make the rich poorer. It is more important for the poor that they become richer than it is for the poor that the rich become poorer.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1975	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e1978	Historically, foreign policy has been an area in which, across the parties, it has mainly been collected and developed. With the foundation on which the new government builds its foreign policy, the big lines are fixed. That being said, it is more than the Progress Party that has warned in recent years that interest orientation in Norwegian foreign policy has been at the root of idealism orientation. Real politics, of course, is not the only gratifying thing in this world. However, the Progress Party is pleased that the new government is making clear the interrelationship between realism and idealism in foreign policy. Peace and reconciliation policy shall continue, but the scope and arrangements shall be reviewed to give priority to processes and countries where Norway has resources and competences that can contribute to achieving results. It has been said that Norway and the United States are the only countries present almost everywhere at all times, at all times. It may be in the nature of a superpower to be omnipresent. However, the same may hardly be true for Norway. Therefore, it has been timely to ask questions related to the experience and impact of the Norwegian Peace Diplomacy. The question is not whether Norway is to conduct peace diplomacy, but how the forces are to be deployed and the extent to which the exposures are to be incurred. We must not appear like those who can never say no. Real policy is essentially about the art of the possible. It has not been said that ideal politics becomes the art of the impossible. But using ideals as the only compass in foreign policy is becoming rapidly demanding. Nevertheless, it is essential that we, as a liberal legal state, go ahead of the values that underpin the society we have, even when we engage outside the borders of the country. Contributing to lifting people out of poverty must be a high priority. The Progress Party is very pleased that the government has made such a clear determination that development policy should be oriented towards results. It is important to be aware that good intentions are not automatically followed by good results. Assistance is one of the instruments of development policy. However, in order for assistance to function according to its intentions, we need to be specific about the objectives, focus on the results and be clear in our expectations towards both the beneficiary countries and the organisations that are Norway's partners in the aid policy. The Progress Party is concerned that there must be a red thread in the policy pursued in the field of development. That is why we are also pleased that the government underlines that it will pursue a coherent development policy. Coherence in development policy means that the policy pursued by Norway, which has implications for developing countries, must move in the same direction. A clear example of an area in which the absence of consensus has been evident is trade policy. It is unmusical to help build poor countries' ability for their own production, and then to close the door again when the same banks are on to sell their products to us. Development policy's first premise is that we consider poor countries and their populations as partners rather than clients. We must recognise and recognise the power of trade as a tool for development and global poverty reduction. Norway should therefore be fully in the forefront of freer world trade and increased cross-border investment. I am very pleased that the government will establish an investment programme within the State pension fund abroad, which will invest in businesses and projects in poor countries. This is what the Progress Party has been talking about for a long time, and it is now being realized. A balanced approach to the Middle East conflict must be taken into account. The Progress Party shares the view that in recent years Norway appears to have left a little behind in the Middle East, and is pleased that the government will now balance this. But standing up for Israel doesn't mean we're turning our backs on the Palestinians. The objective, which must be the basis, is a negotiated solution whereby the Palestinians will have their own state, which will live in coexistence with the State of Israel. Norwegian foreign policy begins with the Nordic countries and Europe. The EU is Norway’s main trading partner. The fact that we do not engage in a new EU debate does not mean that we should not engage in EU issues. We therefore need an offensive approach to European issues in general and to the European Union in particular. I want to close cards where I started – with real policy. The fact that the northern regions have been given such a central place in the government declaration is important, because this is the main strategic area of Norway’s activity and the main area of foreign policy interest in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e2011	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e2015	I would like to begin by congratulating the representative on his place in the Foreign Affairs Committee. In the election campaign, the representative has also shown a very strong commitment to domestic policy, and together with the co-founder, Bård Hoksrud, the representative has used much of the election campaign to fight against tolls and the Grenland urban package. Five days before the election, current State Secretary Hoksrud promised that the Progress Party would set an ultimatum to the Right if they were to join together in government. I know that the answer we often get to this question now is that they don't have pure plurality, but it was probably strictly not entirely realistic that they were going to get it. I also expect that the Progress Party with Hoksrud and Norheim in the head, especially in Telemark, gave realistic promises to the voters. My question to the representative Norheim, since Hoksrud is a State Secretary, is: does the representative come to follow the promise of the voters in Telemark and vote against all requests for tolls? If not, would the representative acknowledge that the promise of the voters in Telemark was foolish?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e2022	It is true that for the Progress Party, the fight against tolls has been one of the heart issues. That said, we got 16.3 pst. at the time of the election now in the autumn, and in the government platform that has been negotiated, we have actually been given the opportunity to reduce the toll. A major case has also been won for the Progress Party with regard to the establishment of a road company. So when you get 16.3 pst., it's not so generous, what we got there.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e2027	From one telemarking to another: I would also like to congratulate the representative, Kristian Norheim, both in Parliament and in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy. In the negotiations on the climate agreement in 2012, the Progress Party had to leave the negotiating table reluctantly because the red-greens did not want them. With the new cooperation agreement and the government platform, for the first time, there is an overall increase – including the Progress Party, and that is historic – behind the climate agreement. The government also undertakes to strengthen the climate agreement. The Christian People's Party is particularly pleased that the parties agree to double the return of the climate fund, provide tax credits for household energy saving, provide increased support for phase-out of oil fires and obtain a full scale of CO2 clean-up plants by 2020. But on an entirely independent basis, in which areas of climate policy does the Progress Party consider it most important to strengthen?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e2037	It is important to strengthen in several areas. I don't think I'm going to pre-shoot the concrete things now, but rather focus on that we need to increase the research share on what's involved in renewable energy, as is also done in the government platform regarding thorium. In addition, there is further commitment to the development of the public transport network, and not least to having an active voice in the international arena. It is, of course, crucial that the major countries join. Here Norway can work to influence.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e2042	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e2045	I think we all know the fairy tale of the Emperor's new clothes. We remember the emperor who was so abominable and seaworthy that he didn't notice that he was deceived and walked around naked in the street, before a little kid said, but he doesn't have anything on him. This adventure ran into my mind after the government declaration was presented with find words such as ‘teacher lift’ and ‘professional lift’. The emperor does not wear new clothes, he wears the old ones that the previous emperor used. I'm glad the emperor is so wise that he wears heirloom. The reform of the 'Knowledge promise' was a broad cross-political commitment, and the main lines of school policy were very much in agreement. In particular, early efforts and efforts to strengthen literacy, writing and accounting skills are important. This has strengthened the red-green government, and that's good. Last year, an evaluation of the Knowledge Lift and its impact on learning outcomes was submitted. In addition to the international tests, it showed that Norwegian students are doing better now than in several years. However, the evaluation also showed that the promise of knowledge had little or no impact on the professions. Therefore, the red-green government made changes, first in high school at, among others. to introduce the selection and testing of work subjects, or mini-professionals, in order to provide practical instruction. The evaluations of the professional subjects were then presented in a communication to the Stortinget adopted in this Chamber in June this year. And what did we decide at Stortinget in June this year? Well, we decided most of what the new government now calls a professional lift. I am very pleased that the government will follow up on what we have already adopted, but there are no new clothes, there are heirlooms, or the second hand that it says fine – such as expanding the practical letter system, offering more TAF courses, practical common subjects, introducing the exchange model and providing opportunities for alternative training courses in companies. The vocational lift is largely already adopted by the Storting, but not enough with it, one has also swung with it a caller for a teacher lift. It says that one should implement a special measure, which is to further train 10,000 mathematics teachers in five years. That's a lot of teachers. But is it a lift? Or is there another coat in the emperor's new heritage wardrobe? It probably depends on the eye that sees. 10 000 teachers in continuing education in five years are 2,000 teachers each year. It is the same number offered by the Red-Green Government in 2009, which has continued and renewed in cooperation with the parties in 2012 – a continuing training strategy. The teacher is very important, and it is important that we give teachers the best opportunities to be the best possible. This means that those schools that have good competence in mathematics should receive continuing education in the field they see that they need. That is what I call trust – a term that has also been used in the government statement. Unfortunately, this trust does not seem to be directly directed at the professional teacher. The government platform says, on the contrary, that there will be more control. One point that is based on mistrust, which will lead to more bureaucracy, is the point that says that the learning outcomes are to be mapped from the first class, and made public. In addition, an assessment shall consider whether to conduct several written examinations. It doesn't exactly testify to trust and simplification. I have heard that the new Minister of Knowledge has said that he wants to be a listener. We think that's great in the Center Party. I hope the new Minister of Knowledge will listen to the teachers who teach in high school – to their parents – and to professionals, and to those who attend teacher training to become professionals. I hope the new Minister of Knowledge will listen to those who have gone a different school run than the academic one, who have not had five or six in all subjects, who have not enjoyed school so well, who have had the feeling of not getting it to, and that he listens to those who have been bullied and to those who strive in life at the same time as they go to school. I also hope he listens to the parents of these kids, and to those who have been their teachers. The teachers are so important that we should listen to them, but without the students, the teacher is totally irrelevant. That's why the Center Party also listens to the kids who dare to say from behind when someone is without clothes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e2064	Much has been done to ensure good growth conditions for children in recent years. Child protection has been reinforced by thousands of new jobs, we have received full child care coverage, child care prices have been significantly reduced, and now we are making provision for two admissions. It gives parents great freedom of choice. The blue-blue government takes over at a time when Norway is more equal than ever. Through conscious and forward-looking policy initiatives, we have succeeded together in giving women and men more equal rights. Women have increased freedom through work and income. Income gives economic freedom and independence. Politically, it is built up in this context, particularly through a strong development of jobs – both in the private and public sectors – through initiatives for more equal pay and through involvement with involuntary part-time and for more full-time. The paperwork has expanded and contributes to a more even distribution of absenteeism from work at birth. Already when the cooperation declaration was presented, we received a quick warning about a new course in the field of equality. In retrospect, the Council of State opinions offer a gender equality policy in reverse, in other words a clear reminder that rights are not fought once and for all. This can best be illustrated by positions related to the reservation rights of the firm, reduced paper sizes, extended cash support, attitudes to allowances and no ambitions in the issue of equal pay. Neither the government platform, nor the state council Horne’s statements in the evening post of 19 October – that it is not the public’s task to influence the gender role pattern in the home – testify that the blue-blue government will be offensively involved in gender equality policy, despite having two women as its leading representatives. We from the Labour Party will remind the government of the importance of equality policy both has been, is and will be for us in the future. Here we have a responsibility to get to a good development. Cultural policy has been given a fantastic boost through our eight years of government. The best thing to say about cultural policy now is that the platform, declaration and different opinions leave a great deal of uncertainty behind. If something is certain, it is that what is usually considered very important in the cultural sector — predictability — does not seem relevant to the blue-blue government. There is no confirmation of a continued cultural promise. On the contrary, business sponsorship and tax-funded gifts are intended to contribute to the economy. Press support is under pressure. The cultural promise has given increased respect for the knowledge, commitment and breadth of Norwegian cultural workers. Through the cultural school system, the cultural spa and new initiatives to bring culture into the workplace, we have raised the cultural sector in a higher division of people's consciousness. Of course, the new government will choose to silence the cultural sector — in its eagerness to fulfill its promises of tax cuts to the richest of the country. My expectation of the new government – an expectation I know I share with many who are concerned with cultural life, whether one is an observer, participant or cultural work – must be that it confirms that the goal of 1 pst. GDP is continued.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e2083	We've got a new big deal, we've got a lot of new representatives, and we've got a new government. We have also had a new parliamentary situation through a historic cooperation agreement between all the four bourgeois parties – Right, the Progress Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party. This means new opportunities, new opportunities to build the knowledge nation. This government is signaling a strong willingness to realise the knowledge society. Building the knowledge nation is among the main government projects. That's because knowledge is a prerequisite for securing our welfare arrangements. Knowledge is a prerequisite for making our jobs safe in the future. Knowledge also creates social mobility for individuals and provides opportunities for all. In order to build the knowledge-based nation, targeted and powerful efforts must be made throughout the whole chain of the education and research system. It is therefore gratifying to read the Government Platform and hear the Prime Minister’s Declaration of Accession, which emphasises a high level of quality in school, a prioritisation and recognition that the teacher is the most important single factor in strengthening learners’ learning, raising professional qualifications and a strong priority for higher education and research. Much is good, but at the same time it is unfortunately so that almost one in five students leave high school without being able to read and write properly. In Oslo, we have achieved very good results over 15 years with consistent civil school policy. What have we done in Oslo? Well, we've been working systematically with documentation, we've been open about the results, we've had few and clear goals, and the students have had close follow-up. The Norwegian school reproduces social differences to a large extent and compensates little for the differences that students make from home. Research shows that the Oslo School, on the other hand, is capable of compensating for students’ backgrounds far higher than the Norwegian School for the rest of the world — and ensures, to a greater extent than other Norwegian municipalities, that everyone is given the same opportunities to succeed. With the new government combined with a solid bourgeois majority on the Stortinget, I feel confident that the school will be even better throughout the country. The government will raise the quality of teacher training. The story is not like it was just told. The government will double the commitment to continuing training for teachers. There is not much to trace in the government's draft budget. The government will stimulate closer cooperation between schools, businesses and research communities and will allow more people to operate publicly funded health schools. I have previously asked questions about what is most important to society – more engineers or more participants in the Ski World Cup? I think we should be able to get to both, and then it shouldn't be that we only allow private schools with specialisation in sports, different educational directions and religion, while establishing own schools where you focus on a real-time bet, is not possible. The right-wing Party government has the ambition to develop world-leading university environments and that Norway will become one of Europe’s most innovative countries. In Norway, we have a unique opportunity to invest in knowledge through wise management of oil wealth. A clear majority of the Stortinget stated in 2001 that the return of the State pension fund abroad is to be used for education, research, infrastructure and growth-promoting tax relief. Head of Central Bank Øystein Olsen said in his 2011 Annual Report: ‘When the action rule was introduced in 2001, it was stressed that parts of the increased space for action provided by oil revenues should be used to strengthen the long-term growth capacity of the Norwegian economy, for example through investments in infrastructure, research and education.’ He went on to say: ‘The authorities have used the space for action to implement standard increases and to increase expenditure in a number of areas. On the other hand, priority should be given to measures that strengthen productivity and growth in the longer term, including fiscal adjustments, which seem to have come to the fore.» It is therefore gratifying to read that the new government has a clear ambition to build the knowledge nation through targeted investment in research and development. The use of oil money shall be reversed in the direction of investment in knowledge and infrastructure as well as growth-enhancing tax relief. Although Norway is a safe and good country for most of us, much can still improve. The investments we are going to make in the future will ensure tomorrow's well-being. That is why we need clear priorities and political action. By rewarding high quality study and excellence in research, we will develop world-leading university environments. We will also stimulate more research, and in sum this will make Norway more innovative and create safe jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e2123	Although we have not discussed politics in this Chamber in many weeks, this election has been an intense and interesting process for us on the non-socialist side. Many internal meetings have been held, and there have been thorough investigations, which eventually led us to choose a cooperation agreement. When I listened to Prime Minister Solberg's government statement, I recognized several of the points in the cooperation agreement. That's a good promise. We have a clear agreement on how to cooperate, and we have many political issues on which we must jointly find good policy solutions. It is easy in the start-up phase of a new government to be both critical and skeptical. Not least, new government councils have been reviewed. The Minister of Agriculture has met his previous statements on agriculture in smooth order, and a question is what policy we are about to have. What makes the Christian People's Party not startled is that we have a clear cooperation agreement, we have an agricultural minister who so clearly also refers to the agreement and to the government platform. It shall be the basis for policy-making. That's why it's way too early to make a dice throw. It's going to be a new political everyday for all of us, and I'm optimistic and I think we're going to find common solutions with good dialogue. The Christian People's Party is still going to be clear on our point of view. We need to be clear about the direction we are taking in the various policy areas. In agricultural policy, there is no change in what we will give priority to in the future. The Christian People's Party will continue to work for increased food production, we will continue to work for better income opportunities for farmers, and we will strengthen soil protection. Having said that, we must also be willing to look at the different instruments, look at new solutions to achieve these important objectives. It may be the key to stopping the cessation of use; it may be by creating new optimism and not least by making young people believe in a future, a new future in agriculture. The goal must be a living agriculture throughout the country. The Prime Minister used the words of trust, trust, the administration and the precautionary principle in his speech, and that is good KrF words. As a newly elected member of the Energy and Environment Committee, I would like to say that this promises good for the future. The Right Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left Party and the Advance Party have more points of consensus in environmental policy that we now have the opportunity to do something about. We are all four concerned with outdoor life, poison remediation, wild breeds, cultural memories, national park management, voluntary forest protection and waste problems. In these and several other environmental issues, the Christian People's Party, together with the Left, wants to contribute to giving the government an even clearer green profile. The Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have also been drivers and have helped to strengthen the climate policy of the red-green government in the climate comparisons both in 2008 and 2012. The Progress Party could also participate in ambitious climate action, but the government closed the Progress Party out of the conciliation. Now it's time to stand together to turn words into action. The Christian People's Party has, through eight, been critical of the government's paralysis of action and lack of goal attainment. Climate policy itself is the acidiest thing about whether we can take the responsibility of administrators seriously. Climate policy permeates most policy areas, but is particularly relevant for transport, industry, oil and agriculture. Here are the biggest challenges. We also need the ability to look beyond borders. Climate policy will be high on the international agenda during this major period. At the UN Climate Change Conference in Durban in 2011, there was a political agreement on the negotiation of a new climate agreement to be finalised in 2015. The Christian People's Party, together with the government parties and the Left, will be an active driver in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e2144	For this debate, we still lack visible traces of the government's future policy. We are waiting for the additional proposition to the State budget, and in the Prime Minister's presentation, the round formulations were more than the actual projects. This can be explained by the calendar. But her message was still in striking contrast to what the voters got presented in the election campaign. I couldn't hear the very clear promises about a completely new direction for Norway. I did not hear again the promise of the new Minister of Finance to introduce market thinking at all levels or the tone of the new Minister of Transport, who said in this debate last year that he would streamline the public sector not only by cutting away meat, but by cutting away pork, as he put it. The employees of the public sector can wait under stress. The Prime Minister repeated that Norway is a good country to live in – here I agree with her – and she summed up that much is good in Norway, and that the government will ‘enhance the good aspects of Norwegian society’ and ‘reserve the values’ it builds on. One could be led to believe that this was a statement from a government that had been re-elected, not from one who was running a campaign on a change of course. I respect the fact that it takes time to outrun politics. In the last few days there have been striking many downs of still fresh election vows. The free choice of treatment should come by 1 January 2016 – it is deferred. Regional health enterprises were to be closed down — hardly at present during this period. The thumb is turned up for tolls, and the Right and Advance Party, both of whom were to remove the new equity requirement, have now negotiated it off, to mention something. The working party does not miss the implementation of such promises, but we must be able to assume that the government will follow up the most profiled promises, including the tax cuts promise of between 25 and 100 billion. kr, or hundreds of billions more for transport than the adopted national transport plan and miles by toll-free roads. As underlined by the Prime Minister, the starting point for the Norwegian economy is good. We have landed with the lowest unemployment in Europe – record numbers are at work, income differences are small and the Pension Fund has tripled in the last eight years, to mention something. The question now, of course, is the strategy for the future. One goal we can agree on is to ensure that many people are working, and that the threshold is lowered into the labour market for those who can work. The treatment of the perspective communication showed it with clarity, this is clearly the most important measure in order to finance the welfare state of the future. Work is to be paid – the Workers' Party agrees. Then it is strange that the government platform will not only maintain the cash support but extend it. It stimulates not more work, but less. At that time, it is alarming that the government is showing a desire to wind up class 2, which also does not stimulate work. Then it's the distribution policy. The Prime Minister said clearly that we must create to share. No one disagrees. But what she's not talking about, and that's a main challenge for a modern economy like ours, is how we share. The government is quite silent on redistribution. Norwegian experience is that a tax system that contributes to the efficient and fair use of resources strengthens the basis for work, well-being and the ability to create. It's a quality Norwegian economy that we have little economic differences between people. It increases the ability to convert. The government's many different proposals for change in the tax system all draw in the opposite direction: more to those who serve from medium to large. A third important point is the Prime Minister’s use of the term ‘trust’. She used it twelve times in her presentation. Trust is a positive value, but it can vary what we add in the term. The concept of trust can be used to say that the community disclaims responsibility and expects people to manage themselves in difficult situations, and trust can be about the security of each and every one of them feeling that society takes responsibility for ensuring us well-being, care and security when we need it. I think this will be an important point in the future political debate on society. What is trust, what contributes to trust, and how do we use this important resource? In our society, all of this is linked – work, work, the balance between duties and rights, small economic differences, adaptability and trust between people and society. The policy objective is to contribute to strengthening this social contract, and I believe it is against this government's efforts will be measured.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e2163	The Government will strengthen its efforts to safeguard Norwegian interests vis-à-vis the EU. The EEA Agreement and the other agreements with the EU will form the framework for European policy. Europe is our region. The European Union is the driving political force in Europe. No international actor affects Norway more than the EU. We share with the European Union the anchoring of values in the principles of the rule of law and democracy and the Christian and humanist cultural heritage. Cooperation with the EU is of heavy importance for the government’s policy objectives in a number of areas, including: with a view to focusing on research and on the long-term sustainability of research policies, strengthening the competitiveness of Norwegian jobs, strengthening national preparedness and preventing security threats and contributing to internationally committed climate and environmental cooperation. It is therefore also clear that it is not only Norwegian foreign policy that begins with Europe — more and more of Norwegian domestic policy begins in Europe through EU and EEA processes. There is a broad consensus in Norway that, as a nation, we have benefited greatly from participating in the European internal market through the EEA Agreement. Common European rules and standards are important for Norwegian industry, but also for Norwegian workers and students working in other European countries. Therefore, it is also important to contribute to the design of these rules. The EEA Agreement gives us the opportunity to participate. Norwegian experts and officials are doing a lot of good work today in working groups that contribute to regulatory development. The government will put a stronger political pressure on the work on EEA matters. We will strengthen the strategic coordination of Norwegian efforts and make policy priorities clearer. This will increase both the quality and the efficiency of the Norwegian work, not least for the benefit of Norwegian business. We will also give high priority and participate in the political arenas of our relationship with the EU. We have to help if we want to influence. We must help when the decision-making processes begin, not when the motions for resolutions are already on the table. When EEA cooperation began in the early 1990s, it was clear that cooperation would become a dynamic cooperation – cooperation in development. Today, we know how fragile development has been and how much has changed in the relationship between the EFTA-EEA countries and the EU. The EU is larger, and more Member States come into existence without EEA memory. The EU has gained more cross-sectoral cooperation in several areas, and this often makes it more difficult to identify what is inside and what is outside our cooperation with the EU. The EU delegates more powers to agencies that are becoming increasingly important in the EU system, sometimes with supervisory and decision-making powers. We want to be involved, but participation can raise fundamental questions, among other things. linked to the Constitution. In recent years, we have seen that the economic crisis has helped to speed up EU cooperation, particularly in the economic field. The Eurogroup is increasingly the focus of the EU, and stronger economic integration in the EU means increasing the marginalisation of Norway in European cooperation. Individually and collectively, these conditions make Norway’s situation more demanding. This in turn means that we need to make greater demands on our own efforts. When EEA cooperation changes, we need to be changeable. When EEA and EU development are speeding up, we also need to speed up. Because we want to influence, we also need to contribute. This is why the government will pursue a more active policy towards the EU and for us to put stronger political force in the organisation of EEA work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e2185	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e2188	First of all, I would like to welcome Mr Helgesen to this Chamber! He and I have struggled against each other since youth, but not in this room, and I look forward to that in the time that comes. The Council of State spoke for a long time about Norwegian interests vis-à-vis the EU. I agree that we should take advantage of the space for action we have. As a result, the former government has been active in influencing a number of EEA Directives. What I'm asking questions about is this contradiction that appears to be put between realism and focusing on a general responsibility in foreign policy. I believe that focusing on aid, on the environment and on human rights is absolutely not contrary to a realistic foreign policy. My question to the Government Council is about the government statement is to perceive as a change in the course that was posted in St.meld. No 15 for 2008-2009 on foreign policy interests, responsibilities and opportunities, where just self-interests were redefined?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e2199	I thank the representative for the welcome, and for the prospects for good dialogue in the years to come! I believe that in many ways the EU is an example of how interests and values can be reconciled in foreign policy, and that there must also be a basis for Norway's policy in an EEA context. The EU is the world's largest player in the area of aid. Norway has good cooperation with the EU in the same field as in other areas. But in an EEA framework, it is quite clear that the first and foremost thing for Norway is to promote our interests. It is in the best interests of Norwegian business, and it is in the best interests of Norwegian citizens. But promoting interests is not just a matter of making demands; it is also done by contributing constructively and finding broad solutions in a European context.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e2208	I agree that we should influence EU cooperation as far as possible. What I am asking is essentially whether this is a turn of Norwegian foreign policy away from a definition of Norwegian interest as something broader than economic and strategic interests? Contributing to more environmental policies, helping in the form of more assistance, helping to improve human rights, I believe, according to Norwegian self-interests. It was precisely this State Council that Helgesen contributed in his time as State Secretary in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, when he was active in peace processes across large parts of the world. I believe this helps to strengthen Norwegian self-interests. Is it so to understand that the representative Norheim's interpretation of what the government statement contains, namely a stronger focus on realism, as opposed to other types of values in foreign policy – does a new turn in the political platform of this government mean?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e2213	The European Union is Norway’s closest partner in many contexts, including the environment, climate and human rights fields, and a close partner in the area of assistance. It basically tells us that there is no reason to construct any contradiction between promoting Norwegian interests and being a constructive co-player also to promote wider values in the international community. It is also true that these areas, which are often characterised as areas of value in international policy, are increasingly proving to be heavy areas of interest as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e2218	Good luck to the State Council Helgesen from perhaps Stortingen's leading EEA party! Governments were facing some challenges. He spoke, among other things, on participation which had some constitutional implications, and then he may have been aiming at the new European System of Financial Supervision. It'll be exciting to follow. Another issue that concerns most people's finances is the Norwegian banking customers deposit scheme in our own country. It is of great value for customers to have certainty that the deposits are secured regardless of whether the bank should go bankrupt. So my question to the Council of State is, how will the government manage the cross-political consensus we've had on this topic, to ensure Norwegian interests?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e2229	I would like to thank Mr Syversen for his good wishes. As the representative said, there has been a cross-political consensus on the issue of the Deposit Guarantee Directive. The inter-political consensus brings the parties of government into the government. We stick to the current guarantee system. We'll work for it to continue. It's, as we all know, a position that we don't fully understand. It is difficult to specify any concrete time perspective in that process, but we hope that we can get a relatively fast progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e2236	Heartily to close with important office! Security and defence policy has been an area of great consensus in the Stortinget. It has been agreed that Norway should have its contribution to international operations under its mandate. Looking at the platform for the Right-Forward Party rule, this item is taken out. So I'm going to ask you if it's the way Norway has to put soldiers at their disposal, for example. to the EU's forces, without a UN mandate? And in that case, would the Council of State think that there is a coverage in the Constitution for such a scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e2243	I would like to thank Mr Navarsete for his congratulations. It is that foreign, defence and security policy are attached to another State Council. But let me say that when the government base highlights the need for a basis of international law for international operations, it reflects that a basis of international law can be – and will often be – a UN mandate. But there are also other forms of base in international law, for example. the invitation from a third country for military support and such an invitation is an adequate basis for international law. Therefore, the wording of the international legal basis is a sound formulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e2250	Congratulations! Four years ago, it was said that vetoing would destroy the whole EEA Agreement. Now we see Norway standing, the EU stands, the EEA Agreement stands – and the post is going. My question to the Council of State is simply about a real desire to have a more active attitude to the EEA and the EU. Will one also be critical of any new directives that will come, or will one, as has been the tradition of this party, automatically take over the policy that comes from the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e2259	I thank the representative for the congratulations and look forward to good cooperation. I think it is important that we leave the mentality that we should sit and wait for directives from the European Union. What is important to promote Norwegian interests is to mark Norwegian positions early and engage in constructive dialogue with the EU at an early stage in order to promote interests. The use of veto rights is an option within the EEA framework, but there is a possibility that should be used with extreme caution, as international cooperation is most often about trying to have a constructive dialogue. We are concerned that this dialogue should take place early, so that we can promote Norwegian interests before we come to the point of dissatisfaction with the content of the directives.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e2267	I would also like to welcome Vidar Helgesen to Stortinget. I look forward to good discussions. Perhaps it can bring a little needed life into EU and EEA spending here in Stortinget, where it is often used to be relatively empty both in the press alone and in the hall. I understand that what I have read about the new European policy, and having a special Council of State as a follow-up to quite broad cross-political issues, are proposals from both the Seirsted Committee and formerly round here in the Stortinget. But I'm still left with a question after listening to the article and the debate now: What should the Council of State and the Government actually do? I understand that one should try to come in earlier. I believe that all governments and all parties have said that – at least as long as I have been in politics and can remember it. But can we expect institutional changes? How should a person put more political pressure? If you want to attend an informal ministerial meeting, can you do something about the structure of the Storting? How does one actually proceed to put the common intention of a more active European policy into practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e2276	I thank you again for the good wishes. I am asking for understanding that in an area of very many issues of political, legal and technical complexity, in an area of a new ministerial portfolio and with a new Council of State, it will take some time for me to have the necessary overview and insight, and before the definition of new ways of doing things has come to communicate. I look forward to a good dialogue with the Stortinget and Stortinget bodies in this process, for it is, as the representative Solhjell pointed out, a broad consensus on the need for active and early Norwegian action. There's a lot of experience in many teams in this room about how this can be done better, and there's a dialogue I'm looking forward to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e2283	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e2286	When the Business Committee was in China in 2010, many were curious about why we have such a low level of conflict in the workplaces in Norway and why we are so effective. I think much of the answer lies in a little story that Gunvor Ulstein, who drives Ulstein Verft, told me. It could be an illustration of how we work. She was at the local Coop to buy food when another customer, who was one of her employees, came away and wondered if they could meet the next day. For he had found some smart solutions to the new X-BOW on the ship they built. She looked up her calendar inside the store and found time for a meeting. That's how they take hold of the ideas that appear, and together they create innovation. Much can probably explain why such processes are much more natural in Norway, not least in places like Ulsteinvik, than in many low-cost countries with which we compete. But we can't help but realize that strings like equality, trust, security and creativity are actually interrelated. We're going to the same school where we don't just poke the facts, but we're also being challenged to think for ourselves. The economic differences are not so big that we become strangers to each other, but we have opposites to many common meeting places. And Norwegian workers have a double security that makes more people dare to be creative. You don't lose your job because of a mistake, and the world doesn't necessarily crash together if you lose your job. You can find a new one. It is about high levels of organisation, reworked workers’ rights, public welfare schemes and a model of cooperation in the labour market that contributes to innovation and high employment. I'm talking about the Norwegian model. And I'll ask the new government to think about both two and three times before it starts picking pieces of this. The model is a coherent and strong design that only works when all parts are operational and lubricated together. And so it not only contributes to Norway being a good and well-functioning country today, but also to the creativity and adaptability that makes us equipped to face the future with optimism, as the high-cost country we are and should be. We cannot, therefore, allow ourselves to be snuffed out of working life, with weakened welfare systems and fragmentation of the community school in A and B schools, and believe that we still have the success formula ‘Norwegian model’ in place. The fact that women have equal opportunities at all levels of work is also linked to the organisation of welfare goods. Full child care coverage versus cash support and day care provides women with greater opportunities in working life. Good maternity leave and increased paperwork help to facilitate the possibility for both parents to combine family and professional life. So this equality policy has given us greater competitiveness. I am therefore not impressed by a right-hand side that manufactures the child hail as a breach of the action rule's focus on an oil money usage for the acquisition of income. When we started industrialisation in Norway, there was a completely different balance of power in the world of work. It was the boss who had all the power, it was 13 hours of work and no overtime pay or sick pay. So it was a really old-fashioned work life and a situation of Norwegian workers today will hardly find itself in. It has cost a lot to fight for such a balanced working life as we have today. In return, it's incredibly quick to tear it all down. Once again, I want to warn the government not to brutalize working life. Fear lies there. The rhetoric of the right-wing parties is in a way powdered or made-up, but on the basis of the stated wishes of the government platform and previous proposals, there is a danger of a brutalization of working life in terms of novelty, such as flexibility and modernisation. The Minister of Economic Affairs said at the NHO Småting in Trondheim that the Right is against everything LO is for. I hope that she too can go into herself and consider whether she has actually said something stupid before, and perhaps mean something else in the future. For such an attitude towards a well-functioning working life, a list – I hope – is a slightly forgiving list, where you actually think a little differently. Because it's all about showing that one understands why the high-cost country of Norway claims to be as good as it is in an international market, before starting to reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e2307	It's easy to take things for granted when you're healthy and you have few plagues in your life. But when sickness, old age or damage makes us dependent on health care, we need security for quick, competent and accessible care. In our good welfare society, ensuring good health and care services is a public responsibility. It is an important support bar for the Right Party Government. Much is good in Norwegian healthcare, but at the same time there is a need to strengthen and modernise healthcare services and to ensure better coordination of the overall health supply. In the Government Platform of the Right Party and the Advance Party, a commitment to a lift of competence for healthcare professionals is an important part. There is no doubt that competent staff are among the most important tools we have to improve the quality of patient treatment. In 2013, the Norwegian Institute of Research on Growth, Welfare and Ageing, NOVA, carried out a study for the Norwegian Association of Nurses on the importance of the Cooperation Reform for municipalities. This confirms 91 pst. of the asked nurses that tasks have become more complex since the implementation of the cooperation reform. A large majority of nurses believe that the proportion of unskilled in the sector is too high, and from previous studies we know that one in three in the care sector is unskilled. The NOVA study underlines that nurses are positive to the challenges of the interaction reform, and they believe that it makes sense to get more responsibility in municipalities. But at the same time they say, "It doesn't keep with just hands. We must have strong professional competence today with the complex tasks assigned to the municipality." Safe patient treatment and proper use of resources are primarily ensured by raising the level of competence in the health sector. Another important measure taken by the government to ensure the safety of good health and care services is to strengthen patients’ freedom of choice. Many people today wait unnecessarily long for diagnosis, treatment or rehabilitation. Some also get too poor care services. It can make the disease worse, and it can make everyday life insecure and demanding. The government will therefore strengthen the patient’s right to choose between the free capacity of the public, private and non-profit actors. It is about using all the good forces to reduce waiting time and health cows. I am pleased that the Right Party government so clearly places patients and their needs at the centre of health care development and change. The value of care can not be measured alone in the number of hospital beds or nursing positions. Until then, healthcare is much more. However, in addition to the security of competent assistance, it is also important to have health care facilities where the need exists. The right-wing Party Government will therefore assume greater responsibility for a faster expansion of care capacity. It does not help to provide grants or grants for the construction of multiple hospitalisation sites if local authorities do not see themselves able to implement them. There is no doubt that they all, most of them want to stay at home as long as it is professionally sound and possible. But when the need for happiness comes to light, many people experience it as very difficult and unsafe to wait — in some cases irresponsible for a long time. In addition to strengthening the competence and capacity of care, it is important for the government to introduce quality indicators for the care sector. These should include, inter alia: based on user and family experience. We know that there is a wide variation in the quality of care for the elderly around the country, and it is therefore important to have some quality measurements that are comparable and that allow municipalities and institutions to work systematically to increase quality. For us in the Right, it is important that we arrange care so that we allow everyone to have good quality of life, even if the need for assistance and help is present. The Government Platform shows concrete measures to strengthen both the quality and capacity of health care services. The Government Platform simply offers an important and ambitious welfare promise for the elderly and the sick.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e2329	The health and care sector is perhaps the most important Norwegian politician with responsibility and authority and the ability to do something about it. If we fail in this area, there is evidence that we housekeepers are poor when it's going to give everyone who needs it, the help they have the right, for which politicians have a duty to facilitate. Let me stress that much is good in Norwegian health and care, and that much is good in the government's submitted government budget, although the Stortinget will of course see changes from the new government when the supplementary budget proposal is presented in a short time. We have to acknowledge that we are facing major future challenges that will require a lot of us to continue to say that the Norwegian health system is among the very best in the world. In the Government Declaration, the Right Party and the Progressive Party state that security of assistance and care is a pillar of our welfare society. Ensuring good health and care services for all when the need arises is a public responsibility. We know that in the years to come we will experience an aging wave. Many more will be affected by dementia and have great needs for care. Over 70,000 people in Norway have Alzheimer’s or some form of dementia. Over the next decades, the number will double. Then it is important that we also look at solutions with good home services, which allow people to live in owner-occupied dwellings or in well-organised residential centres. Therefore, the new government will put in place a State operating grant scheme to prevent bias between nursing homes and nursing homes and to ensure a faster deployment of several nursing homes. We have to put the patient in the centre, their needs have to come first when we look at the future development and change of health care. The new government will keep the excesses at a low level, not evenly increasing them, as the outgoing government has done. Higher proportions affect those who are at least already, and it does not want the government parties to be in it. Similarly, it is of great importance that the situation of the relatives be strengthened by better provision of relief and guidance and that the aid schemes for them be reviewed. In addition, I am pleased that the new government will establish a permanent and independent investigation commission for adverse events in Norwegian hospitals. Unni Tobiassen Lie and Håkon Lie from Modum in Buskerud lost the son Benjamin in 22 years after a loss at Ringerijk Hospital four years ago. Only earlier in the autumn did they get an apology from him who had to personally answer the health authorities for the mistreatment of the patient and for the poor treatment of the survivors. That excuse came only after he had left the Västre Viken healthcare company, but still meant a lot to the survivors. It is not least thanks to the efforts of Unni and Håkon together with others in their relatives for an independent study commission that this is now coming into place. They shall have all credit for their workable struggle for justice. No one should be able to say that the new government does not take patient safety very seriously. Finally, the new government will take a hold on the Russian and psychiatry fields. We want to use several private providers to get this done, in recognition that we cannot be familiar with long waiting lists and poor back protection for people who are struggling with such problems in their everyday lives. The new government has been sitting for only six days. Rome was not built in one day, nor is a society governed by a government in which the Progress Party is involved – even the Romans needed time for planning before implementation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e2352	Of course, it is tempting to comment on how the language of people from the Progress Party has changed after the election. This also applies to representatives from the Right. But I think I'll leave it, because what I want to say is that we have a healthcare system and a health service in Norway that is world-class in many ways. It's world-class for two reasons. One is that it is well-developed across large parts of the country, and we do not depend on the wallets of parents or our own wallets for treatment. It is also a comprehensive offer in all parts of the country. More than ever, serious illness survives in Norway, hospitals treat record numbers, and, as I said, health services deliver very good results in many areas. It has also been provided for in the budget proposed by the government. A strong growth in hospital budgets testifies to the fact that in the years to come too, we have to bet, because things are still not good enough. During the election campaign I have met many individuals and families who experience that the large picture does not match their experience with the Norwegian health service. An example is the father who had a young adult son, who felt that the municipality did not get a swing on the cooperation with the psychiatrist and on the accommodation that the son would have. Another is the pensioner who thinks it was very annoying – and I understand him very well – and just hard to accept that we couldn't fix it his knee in time, so he could go the tours he loved in the woods and the fields. After all, he had paid taxes and worked and worn out his whole life. There'll always be something to go after, and we're lucky to agree on across the lot boundaries. But we've had a campaign that has been characterized by a lot of parties trying to overwhelm each other about how much better it can be in the shortest possible time. I therefore have the following expectations and things I want to convey to the government, Prime Minister Erna Solberg and Health Minister Bent Höie: The first is that I believe it is serious when the Right now has campaigned to remove the governance model we have in Norway, the regional health companies, without having had an idea of what to replace them with in eight years here in Stortinget. They say they're going to replace them with a national health plan, but now we feel that this is being fired on time. The Health Minister says it will take years before you can have a new model in place. Why is this important? Well, it's because it's rocking the authority of those who are set to run the Norwegian health system. We have to remember that the results we are experiencing today, which we did not have ten years ago, among other things. has come through the fact that we have had the courage to convert, dared to say that some functions should be in one hospital, while others should be in another hospital. Some have become specialists in individual hospitals on knee operations, others have become hyper-specialists – the world leaders – on treating some cancers, and we have also done many things related to emergency and food services. The point is that in the direction signal from the government that has now occupied the offices, they leave an empty space in the management of hospitals when they are unable to present what should be the alternative to today's way of organizing things, where we among other things. have local anchoring of the decisions, where people in North Norway, e.g. in Bodø, decide how health services should be in the north – and that’s how we have it all over the country. So here they have to come up with a binding timetable for what they're going to do, or simply put this election promise aside, even though it might be painful for the Right. Then I would like to inform you that the Workers' Party will wholeheartedly support a new escalation plan in the Russian and psychiatry fields. We fully agree that we should step up our efforts. We have done a lot in our reign – it can certainly do much more. Finally, I would like to say that we will also support the Right's own election promise that the hospitals will receive 12 billion. kr more in the next four years, which is the same thing as our drenching government lifted the hospitals by in eight years. So when that proposal comes to Stortinget, we will of course also support it. For eight years, the Stoltenberg government showed that it is possible to create a better health care system in Norway by making tough choices, converting and streamlining. But we also have to assume that we get an ageing and more sick population, where more and more diseases can be treated, people survive and live longer. Then we also have to dry to put the money on the table. I find that there will soon be a conflict between these promises and the tax promises of the citizens, but we will have to come back to that on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e2375	We're going to have to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e2378	I remember the previous speaker's reference to the current government parties, and I join it, because it is remarkable how the rhetoric of the red-greens in very few days is mirrored and adapted to the new situation, using characteristics and claims. The Declaration of Accession of the Government of Solberg begins with a clarification of the value base and that security is important for the fundamental freedom of each of us. Security in everyday life and a strengthened preparedness is an important area of government commitment. Reinforced police ground personnel need to strengthen the operational capacity, prevention and local presence of the police. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the two Ministers of Justice of the Red-Green Government for their cooperation. There have been many debates and disagreements. At the same time, however, there has been agreement on several of the basic and long lines of justice policy. This is not least due to the fact that we have had Ministers of Justice who have facilitated cross-political processes in important matters. I mention in particular the fight against organised crime and the legal basis for combating terrorism. The role of justice policy has now changed. Right wants to facilitate a broad majority in this important area, which is to ensure the security of the population. It is important to note the emphasis of the government on strengthening the police, while at the same time reducing the number of targets and tasks. It's giving the police freedom under responsibility. The time for political detailed regulation is over. The efforts of the police on core tasks shall be strengthened. The Gjørv Commission report and the police analysis have revealed serious deficiencies. The police analysis shows that Norway does not have a police force today. There are wide variations in the police service provided to the population. The analysis concludes that the police are neither well organized nor equipped to deal with the crime we face. It's a crushing sentence. It underpins the need for the government change we received a week ago. The analysis also confirms the need for police restructuring. Out of respect for the hearing bodies, not all conclusions have been reached. But the government will create a powerful and modern police organization that will be even better to fight crime. There will be fewer police districts. The external budget also needs to be restructured. The government strongly and clearly underlines the important function of the local police. Changes in the structure of police posts should therefore be based on two basic premises: that it should lead to more local police force and that prevention should be strengthened locally. Norway has a judicial system which enjoys great respect and which has both authority and trust. This in itself contributes to creating security in society. At the same time, there is now a trend towards an increase in the number of residues – that it takes longer before cases are brought to justice. It is therefore gratifying and necessary for the government to stress the importance of work on faster processing times and increased capacity in the courts. In criminal matters, there are also major tasks to be expected. The reconciliation queue is growing. There is a lack of detention places for both housing and custody. Each third inmate is a foreign national. The government's clear signals of strengthening the efforts for the reconciliation transfer and return of criminal foreigners are welcome. The government also inherits a succession of unpaid bills from the predecessor. The costs of completely necessary upgrades of police ICT systems are not close to being covered. The delay in the entry into force of new criminal law is also an open budget area. The construction of a police emergency centre is still concerned with more questions than with answers. Therefore, the Government Declaration is characterised by impatience and willingness to implement important measures. Not least in the field of justice, this is visible. That is why I look forward to good cooperation and constructive debates on the security of citizens over the next four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e2406	A lot is very good in Norway. Most people think they live a good life. This applies to children, young people and adults. Family, social networking, good growth conditions and a safe job are commonplace for most of us. According to a new UN report, Northmen are among the happiest people in the world. However, in the happy country of Norway, many people do not have it so well and experience tough and challenging everyday life. This applies to children and young people who grow up in low-income families because their parents are out of work or because they are self-sufficient. Based on the poverty targets, the number of poor people in Norway has increased in recent years. It is particularly difficult to be poor when a person lives so closely on many people with good finances. I am pleased that child poverty is mentioned in the government statement. There are many stories about children standing on the outside of social arenas because the family can't afford to pay membership or buy necessary equipment. The Salvation Army tells of an increase in poor families, who rush to them to receive food packages and clothes. The government of Solberg wants an action package aimed at children growing up in poor families, which is also enshrined in the cooperation agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left. It is important to facilitate the possibility for more children to participate in important social arenas, irrespective of the income of their parents, by establishing local facilities and quota support schemes. In addition, the government will work to introduce a better social profile of parental pay for both kindergarten and SFO. The Right-Fremskrit party government will pursue a policy that strengthens measures to promote social inclusion for vulnerable children and young people. We're busy closing the holes in the social security network. The government platform says that the government will work for Norway to be a country with small differences and minimal poverty. The main measures to combat poverty are a good school that balances social differences and an open working life with room for all. By realising the knowledge society and by closing the gaps in the social security network, we create social mobility and opportunities for all. Right wants a society with opportunities for everyone. The welfare State shall not be too inclusive, but shall be strong for those in need of assistance. However, it is an overall objective of labour and social policy to contribute to as many people as possible being able to experience the security it is to have gainful employment. Unfortunately, 600,000 people in pre-employment are totally or partially out of work because they are on health-related social security schemes. The proportion of young people with disabilities is increasing, particularly those with mental health problems. Six out of ten disabled people under 40 years of age are insured because of mental illness, according to Nav figures. Some sick and disabled people are absolutely unable to work. These people are not to be stressed out. Those who are too sick to work must experience having a good safety net with a safe and predictable security of income. It's a quality stamp of a good society that we ensure everyday life and care for those who don't do themselves. But the same basic thing is that anyone who can, has the desire and abilities, has a new chance of getting into the world of work. All those who can work in full or in part, we're going to arrange for them to get to work. It contributes to a stronger social security network. For most people, the workplace is the most important social arena and the non-family network. The new government will have a working life with good arrangements that include as much as possible. It doesn't work well enough the way we do today. 80,000 people with disabilities are involuntarily out of work. Better provision must be made for disabled people in working life and in their daily lives because society needs labour and to be able to participate in the community at work in the same way as others. Therefore, the government wants to strengthen the organisation guarantee and functional assistance system for those who need some support and functional adjustment to provide 100 pst. There are few tasks in Norway today that are more important than organising and including as much as possible in the workplace. The job is not only important as a source of income; it is also important as a good social security network. If we're going to get more people to work, we need not just good politics, but a working life where leaders don't see themselves blind to constraints. It is more important to focus on what each individual can contribute. One example is the NHO 'Ringer in the Water' project. The aim of the project is for NHO member companies to recruit more people who are struggling to enter the labour market. This shows that we in Norway have a broad and well-organised employer page that shows social responsibility. At the same time, there is also a self-interest in the project; NHO's businesses recruit many skilled people. The new government wants to let go of all the good forces. Many can contribute and improve everyday life for those who lack a good social security network. It's about seeing the individual person, caring and not letting the systems stand in the way of the good solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e2438	It has been nice to follow the debate today and record that the municipal sector has received a lot of space and good publicity. The local authorities are important to our democracy. Since 1837, when we received the Presidency Act, and until today, the municipalities have played a more important and important role for the people – for the inhabitants. New tasks have been continuously assigned to them, and the municipalities have solved them in a very good way. The closer the inhabitants are, the better the decisions and the better the priorities. That is why I am a major supporter of local self-government and of the local government sector in general. I am therefore very grateful that my party has given me the chance to sit in the municipal and management committee here at Stortinget, after 14 years as a local politician. My best glances as local politicians have been when I've helped people with the simple things, the everyday issues, like building on the house, building a fist, getting a cultural event, or separating an empty from their descendants. The voltage is very high with regard to what a local politician is experiencing, and one is constantly close to the inhabitants. Therefore, I am very pleased that the political platform of the Right and the Progress Party so clearly acknowledges the local self-government and that everything in the introduction reads: ‘The government will contribute to a simpler everyday life for most people. More power and authority must be entrusted to the community.» The platform has continuous confidence in the local self-government and the thoughts and the hold-ups that are appreciated in Municipality-Noreg, and that delight more than me. The government and the co-operation parties have said that a municipal reform should be carried out. This has been accepted a little differently. Someone welcomes a process to discuss a further development of the local government sector, and someone interprets it as sitting in Oslo and drawing a map. We're not going to draw a map from Oslo. This should be a process where the Storing is invited early, and I hope as many parties as possible will be involved in this work. But perhaps the most important thing: the municipalities should be involved in this process. They'll be allowed to contribute. The main objective is not to draw maps; the main objective is to strengthen local democracy in addition, so that municipalities will also be able to provide high-quality, good-quality services for their inhabitants in the future. We are set to give the municipalities even more new tasks. It's because local municipalities know best. They've shown quite well since 1837 that they've solved their problems. In the New Year, on 1 January, it is exactly 50 years since the previous major municipal reform came into force, after the Schei Committee had done its job. Very much has happened in Norway in 50 years. Distances have become smaller, new solutions within technology have come, so it's natural to see if the geographical breakdown we have today is the most appropriate. 428 municipalities may not be the answer with two lines under them, considering what is the best organization. The reason for reorganising the local community sector is to use the resources smartly and to ensure a good professional environment both in view of today's tasks and not least the new tasks that one intends to provide to municipalities. That is why this must be looked at, but the country is different. Therefore, the municipalities must be in this process, and it is not relevant to set - from this level - a number for the number of inhabitants to be in your municipality. So we also want to bring some positive economic agents that will make it attractive to merge. Today, there is an element of the income system that has been set up in such a way that it can be wretched with otherwise reasonable aggregations. These are things we have to look at. So I am very pleased that the government will allow the municipalities to retain more of their own value creation. It is actually a point that we should recognise the local level, it must live to a greater extent on own income than on transfers from the country. The tax morals of business will also be greater if their incomes become local again and are invested in sport, culture, schools, kindergartens and care for the elderly, than if everything is to be sent to the Ministry of Finance and then distributed back by some keys. Therefore, I am very pleased that one in the government statement says that one should look at the company tax, and that part of it should be returned to the municipalities. The most important thing about the government platform for a local politician is to read the formulation of the State and to record that the State should limit its power towards the local self-government. I think that is something local politicians – cross-political – have read with great joy. They look forward to a government recognising that it is the local people who know best what is best for the municipality, not the State.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e2475	The left will strengthen local democracy by shifting power from the state to local elected bodies, thus giving citizens greater influence over their own daily lives. The Constitution shall govern relations between citizens and the state, and the state powers between them. The Constitution will review major changes in the forthcoming ageing period, both as a result of the human rights committee's proposal to strengthen the position of human rights in the law and as a result of adopted linguistic changes. The Left supports strengthening citizens' rights under the Constitution. There is still a need to update the Constitution's description of the country's system of governance. We've always been in the brink of expanding democracy. The elected representatives are to be the representatives of the people, and it is therefore important that one has the lowest possible professional representative. The representatives mandated by the Storting should be primarily linked to groups which do not have the necessary strength, for example: The Children's Ombudsman. The left will strengthen local self-government and give people influence over their own everyday lives. Local self-government is increasingly constrained by state detail management and is losing ground to state regulations, circulars and policy-makers' desire to interfere in small things. The left believes that power centralization is serious and undesirable, especially because we need to shift more power and more tasks to local democracy. The starting point for the left is that the decentralisation of power and authority is an active regional policy action. The policies of the left on municipal structure, industrial development, agriculture, transport and communication, knowledge and health are all designed to strengthen and empower local communities and district centres and make it possible to live throughout the country. The left is concerned about an increasing documentation and control regime in many parts of the public sector. A lot of time and resources go with administration and bureaucracy. We will work to limit bureaucratic rules and practices also for public employees, which in turn will make everyday life easier for citizens. Large parts of the public sector are characterised by detailed management. Too little emphasis is placed on the ability of employees to assess as professionals. This easily creates situations where simple things are prioritised in front of those that are difficult and important. The public sector is in constant need of renewal. The number of directorates, supervision and their tasks, regulation and control functions need to be reviewed with a view to restoring policy functions to elected bodies. From what I have said, the Left wishes to welcome a local reform, which is and will be a reform of democracy, where power is decentralised from state to region and municipality. Today's county councils are not adapted to the challenges of the future and need to change. The left considers that today's county councils will be replaced by a new elected regional level with fewer and stronger and larger regions. Strong regions must have political power and financial resources. Today, much of that power is placed with the state. The Norwegian regions shall be an independent and fully-fledged level of government, such as the municipalities at local level, with extensive decentralisation of tasks, responsibilities, authority and resources from the State. Regions that have to have such overall responsibility must be subdivided in a way that is functional in relation to the tasks to be undertaken and so that it is natural for the population of those areas to identify with their own region, such as Tribute layers. Furthermore, it is important to assign administrative tasks from the county office, such as land regulations, centre structures and other discretionary guidelines, to the new regions. The left will provide citizens with better opportunities in their community. From the 1960s onward, a multi-municipal structure is in stark contrast to the residential, commercial, labour and service areas that we have today. Many municipalities no longer have the opportunity to take an overall approach to industrial development, environmental policies, land use and increasingly complex and demanding public services. Democracy reform, with more tasks centralised from state to region and municipality, requires more robust and sustainable municipalities, which provide larger municipalities with more responsibility than they currently have. It will provide opportunities for both care and care, and not least will one see that a host of IKS solutions are neither democratic nor sustainable. Of course, we have to keep track of geographical distances in the further work, and there has to be arrangements that make it profitable for municipalities to look at this. It is also important to have speed and flexibility associated with this. There must be incentives for small municipalities to join together, so that they can see that it is economically beneficial. It is in the municipalities that welfare production takes place, which is why we must also enable them to provide the citizens with a good offer. Many sectors need simplification and renewal, not least in agriculture. But taking away the concession provisions and the price control is not the answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e2501	The newspaper wrote in 2005 that the government in question came to the table. Since then, Norway has been through an amazing journey, I think we're all going to admit that. We've been sitting on the green branch, and our wealth has increased dramatically. It's due to an incredible improvement in our trading relationship with the rest of the world – there's no social democratically initiated relationship. There's been an increase in the room for action. I stunned when I heard it earlier, or falling, the Minister of Finance present the budget. Then he said, ‘If prices of Norwegian exports’ — we all know that they are oil — ‘should fall, it will require the best cooperation to bring costs down to a sustainable level’. It's a pretty strong statement by a dwindling finance minister. It says something about the meal being eaten, and we're hoping that it's not just the dishes again. Unlike some other representatives, I have seen the government statement and the government platform as a strong uplift in relation to what we have heard in recent years. Here it was an overall message. It was faith in competitiveness – that competitiveness had to be raised – values must be created before they are allocated, it is confidence in individuals, it is confidence that local communities take the right decisions separately, and that decisions should be taken as closely as possible to those concerned. I also tripped when I heard the representative Stoltenberg – and when you hear a former Prime Minister, you listen carefully. He said we had high productivity in Norway, he said that the level of investment was not particularly distorted, and he didn't mention the division. And then we can think about what are the facts. Oil dependence in Norway has increased sharply under the red-green government — some claim that it is half the Norwegian economy that now fluctuates with the oil industry and oil activity. We also know that the level of costs in Norway has gone from 20 pst. to 70 pst. over our trading partners. We have high productivity in Norway – yes, it has developed over many, many years. But if we look at the dwindling government's own documents, it has forgotten to develop that productivity. Since 2006, we have had lower productivity growth than our trading partners, which is the opposite of what we had before 2006. It might say a little bit about what policy solutions are behind it. On the investment side, the SSB has pointed out that for four years, the net investment level, i.e., if gross investment is taken and deducted from consumption of fixed capital, has been negative in industry in Norway. It is almost an exit strategy for mainland Norway. And the two-part division: I myself come from a state, Hedmark, where private sector employment has actually fallen since 2008, and it's under the red-green government. So here you need new ideas. Therefore, the government statement and the platform were so liberating that they had to invest in employee participation. You have to bet on private ownership wide. Research needs to be focused on through BIA, for example, the nutritional systems. It is essential to invest in business equity, which is the first prerequisite for building safe jobs, by reducing taxes on wealth. There has also been a signal of further bets on seeds. Depreciation rules should be used to improve the competitiveness of the Norwegian economy. Neutral VAT is to be invested in state and health enterprises, which is going to be very important in driving innovation towards public services. You have to bet on simplification – 25 pst. reduction in relation to the level in 2011. I think that's very long-awaited. And you recognize that Norway has a small, open economy, and our wealth is built on the fact that we have an active trade with the world around us. Even for agriculture, which is also under the nutrition committee, of which I am now a part, most people have come to realize that there has already been a storm over the fact that there are new ideas coming into the department. I belong to those who believe that it is both strongly longed for and too late. It will be exciting to follow in the process of increasing the farmer's right of ownership of his own property and of reinvigorating ownership. But what's absolutely certain is that new ideas and better solutions are on their way into the departments. It was high time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e2525	When I meet young girls with malnourished children who are affected by the drought in Niger, where agriculture is affected by climate change, I see the consequences of climate change literally in my eyes. So the president tells me that before it was dry every ten years. Then it was dried every five years. And now Niger, which is at the very bottom of the world's developmental scale, is hit every two years and every three years by drought. When I meet El Salvador's Environment Minister, he tells me what it's like to be hit by tropical storms like one of the world's most climate-sensitive countries. In the 1970s, in the last century, they had one tropical storm, which took 3-5 pst. of gross domestic product. In the 1980s, there were two. In the 1990s, there were four. And the first decade of this millennium was eight tropical storms. The last one took 16 pst. by their State budget. It's about as much as we use on defense, on development aid and on the specialist health service together. This is the reality of El Salvador. In Bangladesh, I met people who live in areas that are going to submerge with certainty if we base the climate panel's forecasts and assumptions. Energy and climate issues are about justice, and it is about sharing: who causes climate change, who is affected, and who has to take responsibility for the change that we all know is absolutely necessary. As long as it contaminates creating energy and using energy creates growth, it goes without saying that those who release more, and those who release the most, we are the ones who have had the greatest growth in wealth in the last hundred years. Our goal is that all people in the world should have the same right to be able to pollute within the limits of what nature tolerates. You can apply the golden climate rule: we need to pollute as little as we think others need to pollute, in order for us together to stop the dangerous climate change. It's about fair distribution, it's about natural diversity, it's about stopping the flow of biodiversity that we see happens every day in the world. It is a long time before we are there, but during our time in government, the emissions from Norway have gone down, and we are at the lowest level since 1995, if we look away from the financial crisis year, but we are miles above what the world tolerates. Therefore, it is good that the Left and Christian People's Party got into the cooperation agreement that the government should strengthen the climate agreement, but I find little of the leadership needed, both in the declaration submitted by the government, and in the declaration of accession to Prime Minister Solberg. There is work to stop dangerous climate change projects that are less important than bringing together municipalities — believe that they can. We see little of the leadership needed from a government, according to Lord Nicholas Stern – Lord Nicholas Stern, the economist who through his groundbreaking and recognized work has shown how sensible it is to start the transition now instead of waiting until later. It gets more expensive, and more people get hit on the road. It's about leading the transition to a world where we're not releasing greenhouse gases near the level we're doing today. Then we have to do what is needed, and there is a lot of work to do if we base the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. The climate impacts of the oil and gas we pump up are greater than those of the entire population of Africa. We're five million people, they're about a billion. The impression created by representatives of the new government is that there are no signs of triggering the transition to sustainable industries that many of the business actors clearly demand, including, but not limited to: in today's Business shortly after the election. It is also the case that in debates it may seem that the Right Party and the Advance Party have a greater focus on increasing road traffic around the big cities than meeting the clear demands of the climate agreement for the whole growth of passenger traffic to be taken through collective, bicycle and foot, i.e. walking distance. We need the Norwegian Storing to take leadership over the next four years to drive through the transition towards the low-emission society that we know is necessary. We can keep fooling ourselves and getting a plan B. But we don't have plane B. That's why we have to do the job.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e2548	The Government Platform and the Cooperation Agreement underpinning government policy in the field of transport are very offensive. There will be investment in infrastructure both in the form of crowns and in the form of restructuring and improvement of the industry, which will be very necessary for the country. I would like to remind you that the environmental mindset is at the mercy of everything we do. It is not a project of our own, it is part of the values on which we base our policy. It would be pointless to say that it would be a separate project to think about the environment. There should be something you have in the spinal cord. We see the whole of what we're doing: we're going to build better roads around cities, but also between cities and districts. We're going to build a better rail system to make sure that commuters get a better everyday life, and that more of the transport of goods can go on freight trains. We will expand shipping, support the international shipping that Norway has, and not least ensure that short sea shipping becomes more competitive. We're going to make sure our planes go all over the country, so people get to and from meetings, conferences and vacations. That is why the policy we put forward is important, in which we must both secure funds and change the organisation. We want to do this through different structural proposals in general and even by changing the way we have organized the government system, by now moving port responsibility into the Ministry of Transport, thus bringing together all the modes of transport under one hat, instead of having it spread, like before. I'm going to pay tribute to the red-green parties because they've done as the Stortinget wanted, that's to raise the appropriations for infrastructure in the last few years – that's good. But the aftermath is still great. If we look at the 2014 budget, we see that the responsibility assumed in the new national transport plan is not being financed. There's a job to do together. Not only can you make great promises, but you can underfinance afterwards and see that the maintenance seat run is growing. What the new government, the Right Party government, will do is create an infrastructure fund. It will provide us with predictable funding for new projects. It will not only finance new projects, but it will be in line with the rules of action mentioned at the time of its establishment, namely that more of the returns will go to infrastructure, to research and to commercial tax reliefs. We want to create an investment company for the road. It's about making sure that with the means we use on the road, we actually get the projects implemented better, cheaper and faster, and that responsibility for planning, implementation and funding is brought together in one place. They add equity to companies, make it possible for them to borrow cheaply in the market, but thus they are also made independent of the annual budgets. This means that we can avoid what we have seen so far, namely that we start projects, so it dries a little bit towards the end of each year – with huge costs, but lost money – and then we start them up again in January. Surveys have been obtained to show that only on road projects started, you lose billions of dollars with that way of financing. So only there will the organization of the new government be able to give us much more way for the same money. Then I am very glad that the left last weekend announced that they also want that kind of organisation on the railway. We welcome the fact that the Storting is discussing this and giving clear signals to the government. This is about looking at how we're doing the problems, not just discussing how much money you've allocated. Granting money into a system that doesn't work does not produce results either. We have to do both. The government statement is very offensive to public transport in terms of local measures, but also to the slightly larger areas, such as the urban environment. the intercity triangle around Oslo. We want to plan it completely – out to all corners – instead of ending halfway. It's a huge investment promise, and it'll have to happen over time, but here it's important that we organize the project so that we reduce the planning time and the impact assessment time, so that we have good solutions for the country's citizens as soon as possible. What is most important, and I hope that the Storting will give priority in the short term, is to strengthen maintenance. We need to get better roads, and we need to get better operational safety on the railway. It is a pleasure both for commuters and for the freight carriers. When we talk to the railway companies, there are not new routes they're the most busy, but it's to make sure that the ones that exist are in operation – that the freight comes out when you expect it. This government will work with structure, we will work with increased appropriations, and not least we will work with the Stortinget to get solutions that benefit people most and Norwegian business. And we're happy to tackle that problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e2574	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e2577	I would first like to congratulate Mr Solvik-Olsen as the new Council of State in an important area. I look forward to getting better acquainted with the Council of States through the work of the Transport Committee. The government statement contains a lot of good that all batches can join. I am particularly pleased that many of the initiatives launched by the Red-Greens through the National Transport Plan are clearly followed up – and that the Council of State also praises it in its contribution. Now it was over 420 billion. kr in the difference between the proposals of the Right-wing Party and the Advance Party in ours. We know that the Progress Party would both remove the toll and use the rule of action more creatively – in some contexts it wanted to be broken completely. Now we know the fasit and the framework of the government, and my question to the Council of State is, how will the government follow up its promises to the voters about massive road development and reduced tolls in the next few years? How is this to be financed?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e2586	Thank you for that. It's the voters who decide how to put together the Storting. So it was 16 pst. of the voters who wanted a lot to fight against tolls. We have. In this government platform, we're saying we're going to build more roads than the red-green ones did, and we're going to have a smaller toll percentage. So here you get to combine the best of the Right and the best of the Advance Party in a good government platform. We will come back to how this is to be financed in the annual budget appropriations, but I am very proud of the statement we have. It clearly says that we need to focus more on this, we need to find room in the budgets by organising the public sector in a better way. This is about releasing funds, which means that you get more money back, and you get more railway back for the money. Then it's true that the Progress Party didn't get through to remove the toll completely. But also there we get a grip that does not cost the state a penny – simply by lending out the good reputation of the state – by providing state guarantees when toll companies borrow money. Only where Norwegian drivers and Norwegian businesses can save billions of unnecessary tolls annually by better organizing themselves. I think that's good.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e2595	It is good to hear that the ambitions are still there, even though they are much more modest than when the Council of State addressed the voters before the elections. In the alternative transport plan of the Progress Party, they would spend 1000 billion. kr more than the red-green on the road and track – a thousand billion! Free E39 is an important project in the national transport plan. In the Alternative Transport Plan of the Advance Party, the Party promised to build the Free E39 within 15 years. But the Free E39 is not mentioned in the Government Platform of the Right Party and the Advance Party. Will the Minister for Transport of the Progress Party follow up the promise to the West of the Free E39, or does the Council of State consider the promise that has been negotiated in the Government Platform?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e2604	There are a lot of things that we are going to do in the Right Party government that are not mentioned specifically in the platform, simply because it goes under the larger names. We have promised to invest more on the road, more on the railways and more on public transport. This does not mean that we define the individual bus route or the individual road billing, but it says in the platform that there will be a stronger bet than the red-green added in the national transport plan. That's why there'll be more projects than they'll add up to here. But I would very much like to invite both the Workers' Party, SV, the Centre Party and the Green Party, together with the Left and the Christian People's Party, to participate in increasing the funding of infrastructure, if it is very important for the Workers' Party – it sounds like that, when they are very concerned that we should get the most implemented by the Progress Party's proposal in the National Transport Plan, instead of arguing for their own position. But yes, in a government statement you give and take. The advance party has turned its direction in terms of the toll reduction in Norway. We are very pleased about that. At the same time, we are to bet more on the way through the Right-Fremskrit Party declaration. It should also be a pleasure to the drivers and the business community.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e2613	I would first like to congratulate Mr Solvik-Olsen as the new Council of State. Safe and good highways are important. It is important for individual road users and it is important for business. Unfortunately, we are now struggling with a huge maintenance kit. A report by the State Road Administration, from February of this year, estimates the cost of eradicating decay and making the necessary upgrades on the county road network 45 to 75 billion. kr. I am pleased that we have now received a government that will have a change of pace in the policy on transport. The Christian People's Party and the Advance Party have on many occasions pointed out the shortcomings of the county road network. It cannot be the responsibility of the counties alone to take this back. The cooperation agreement and the platform document of the new government promise well. How will the Council of State realise these ambitions of which the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party stand together? What measures will be most important now that work starts to take place again on the county roads?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e2625	Thank you for your congratulations. The county roads are very important – along with the national road network. This government has inherited a county road network, which unfortunately has a significant maintenance run, where there must be a major uplift in the future. We will already try to increase the appropriations for maintenance in the 2014 budget, but there is a limited amount of work to be done with a few days. But from the 2015 budget we will be able to set a clearer mark. One of the important instruments I want to try to raise is to continue the interest-rate compensation scheme, which allows county councils themselves to be involved in financing this to a large extent. It has been tried to dissolve under the red-green. We'll try to see if it can be continued. Then I am very happy that we have a very good cooperation with both the Christian People's Party and the Left, because it ensures the majority in this big deal that we can make these promises – in contrast to the previous government, where some of the partners went to the elections that they would not build any more way. So this promises well.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e2636	Congratulations to the Council of State on an incredibly important task. It's probably going to bother the council a lot over the next four years, but it's a good idea, because we're busy with transportation. Some of the work I've done in the last few years is free of E39 Coastal Road. The red-green showed a very clear ambition to do this in twenty years. I want the Council of State to say clearly from what the ambition of the dark blue government is, because it is very interesting for all those who feed and who live along this route. I would also like to say to the right what the council thinks about something quoted from Aftenbladet, that one doesn't want to deposit money into a dysfunctional railway station. I can't say anything more than that it's quoted the Council of States. What I'm asking is, if the Council of State thinks the Railway Agency is dysfunctional.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e2645	Thank you for your congratulations. Let me just take the last one first: there I haven't been quoted as intended. I have also talked to the Railway Agency today and explained that what was the point was that it is important to grant money for infrastructure development, but it is also important to ensure that the systems are in place. What was my point was that there's no point in giving money if the systems don't work. I see that I was quoted a little different from what was intended, so then we have clarified it. I would also like to commend the Central Party for the fight that their Council of State has waged earlier in the Ministry of Transport. There's no doubt that the Center Party has been a driving force to get more money on the road and the railway, and they would probably get even better results in a different constellation. What will be the work of this government is to make sure that we get a better organization. I am very pleased that there are many investigations and reports from the civil service on how to better organise Norwegian transport policy. Unfortunately, the red-green government didn't get any of it done, because they didn't want it. That's where I think we can get the support of the Center Party when this government presents it. The E39 will be one of many main areas of activity, and we will implement it at least in line with the national transport plan. So there I hope we can surprise you.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e2658	First of all, I would like to take the opportunity to congratulate Ketil Solvik-Olsen on having become the Council of State for a very important department – a department that is very important to the Left. I note that Ketil Solvik-Olsen is pleased with the challenge that our party leader came up with this weekend, that the government parties that are now going to set up a road company also set up a similar railway company. What is the time perspective of the Council of State in this respect? We are also engaged in maintenance on the railway. I was surprised at the amount of maturity. The NHO representative, Erling Säther, says at a conference that was held yesterday and today at the Gardermoen, that there is a need for approx. 1 billion. kr targeted – i.e. earmarked only for the sections where goods are particularly good, and for crossing tracks. Is this something we're going to see in what the Council of State is going to promote? And how are we going to follow up on this in the other budgets?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e2667	Thank you for your good-bye. The railway effort is very important. It's because creating a whole in the infrastructure that makes road, rail, air and keel work together, so that we can channel both passenger and goods flows in the most appropriate ways, is important. And to the extent that we can increase freight by rail, we will also be able to save on maintenance on the road. As for how fast we get to this, my ambition is that we will be able to make the necessary decisions during 2014 to get a company in place. But I'm very humble that there may be complications here, ranging from employment agreements in existing companies that might be affected, to other things, which make things take longer, but it should not take more than a year. This will enable us to start that organization quickly. Until that happens, my ambition is that both in the additional proposal for the 2013/2014 budget, and also in the work towards 2015, we will have a strong commitment to maintenance. It is also the message from stakeholders, both in terms of freight, rail and road, that maintenance is more important than new investments now. You have to have a good balance.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e2676	I notice that the Council of State doesn't promise to give priority to a completely ferry-free E39, and I think that's right to start with. On the other hand, we are proud of the environmentally friendly collective effort we have achieved over the eight years we have been in government, both the reward scheme for public transport and the historically high railway investments, after historically low railway investments when we took over in 2005. However, if we are to achieve the objectives of the climate agreement, it is quite clear that the Minister for Transport has a very important role to play. Therefore, I would like to ask the Council of State: will the Council of State make an absolute demand that all infrastructure projects around the major cities contribute to achieving the objective of speeding up, collective and cycling the increase in passenger transport?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e2683	Let me first say that I can promise that we will implement NTP – probably faster and cheaper than the red-greens would have done, through better organisation, better planning and not least better cooperation. For both the government constellation and the cooperative constellation, four parties are moving in the same direction, unlike what we already experience from the opposition, which is moving in different directions. And that explains the many delays, among other things. on road and rail investments, even if the appropriations have increased. Then I register that SV in this room has already made suggestions to strengthen the climate agreement. So they have barely come out of government before they want to change the policy for which they themselves have been given a majority. I think you see that it's a little unrealistic to change things so quickly when you haven't laid the foundation for that change to happen. What is important for this government is to ensure that we get more transport of both people and goods to as environmentally friendly solutions as possible. This does not necessarily mean that one should commit to a concrete solution or to a concrete year, as one has had a little too many problems with the past, with moon landing and the like. It's important to get the best whole solutions. Then you have to get back to how it happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e2692	I would also like to mention the proposal which has been distributed in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e2697	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås has taken up the suggestion he referred to. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e2702	Often one talks about well-being as if it were only public provision, but well-being is also closeness between people. There's freedom to make the choices you want, there's security to live the life you want. Historically, we in Norway have never been closer to these goals than we are today. The unemployment rate is low, the employment rate is high, and the trust between people is high. Nevertheless, not everyone can live as they wish – whether it is a father who knows that he has to argue with the boss when he's going home with his kids, or it's a guy who's solved all the math tasks and doesn't get challenges at school level, or it's a girl who doesn't dare go home alone after party because she's afraid to become vulnerable to attack. It is human beings like this who are at the centre of the Workers' Party's policy. We don't want to leave them to solve their problems entirely alone, develop their talent entirely alone, or get rid of their fear entirely alone. We need individual freedom, but also common duties. A society with freedom for individuals, but without anyone's expectations, is not a society. Some of the things that keep individuals together are expectations and trust in each other. For no one is so strong that one never needs support, and no one is so weak that one can never support others. It was John Stuart Mill who in his time formulated that with freedom comes responsibility. It involves responsibility both for themselves and for each other. It is also the starting point for our justice policy: that the perpetrator asks for responsibility, that he or she be held responsible, that no one can use his or her freedom to violate his or her freedom. It's a reasonable expectation. When the expectation is still broken and someone is being elected or violated, we need a police officer who investigates and investigates, an prosecution authority who raises a case and a court of law seeking justice. That is why we have tightened up the sanctions for violence, violence, family rule and hate crime. We have therefore strengthened our position in criminal matters by introducing the right to free legal assistance, the right to an assistant lawyer and the right to contact the police in a number of cases. But we will never stop expecting anything, nor from people who have committed crime. Fighting crime is also well-being. We have a return guarantee that judgment and punishment should not only be an end, but that it should also be a start. Another life is possible, including for those who have broken the laws. For every penny we spend on return, we save 6 kroner – but above all, we save lives. A modern society requires solutions in time. We have men and women in uniform who do their work wisely and bravely, but we have also received clear recommendations in the most thorough analysis of Norwegian police in no way to think about new things, both in terms of organisation, the stronger trade union environment and the exchange of experience between districts. We'll do that together with the police, with the trade unions and the communities. Politics is money, politics is priorities, but politics is also worth it. We will fight crime, and we will fight against the causes of crime. That means we want to prevent more to repair less. We then prioritise both economic and political, but we also prioritise some values. We give priority to the freedom and security of individuals, we give priority to communities, we give priority to a close and strong police force, so that people have the freedom to make the choices they want and can feel the security of living the life they want.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e2719	It was said earlier here today that both the census and the government's declaration of accession are both a bit round at the edges, and there is so much that you can no longer recognise, whether you are in opposition and are reading the declaration of accession critically, or belong to the majority of the population and are critically reading the census from the outgoing government. But this is great, because it shows that we have a lot of values in common, and that we're pretty much looking at the problems that have to be solved. There are many areas in which this enlargement will work together. Then someone has said that the government platform and the declaration of accession, which is based on this, either have too low ambitions, have omissions or a direction of concern. I cannot understand such fear at all, and especially not when you see the government platform, not in comparison with the census, but with the government's own perspective message, which was promoted for Stortinget in Melding. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. The government – that is, the deceased – describes the challenges facing the Norwegian economy and the choices we have to make in order not to become further oil dependent, and in order not to elaborate the distinction between the oil-powered industry and the rest of the Norwegian industry. The communication from the previous government describes precisely how welfare cannot be further developed through several performance decisions, but that the tasks hereafter are to finance the welfare state through higher productivity, less waste and tighter priorities. The perspective message prepares us for the transition as the petroleum industry decreases in importance. For further reading, please refer in particular to the review on pages 8 to 15. Chapter 3 mentions that investment in a country’s assets increases value creation, that a country’s ability to produce is determined by the efficiency of its resources in terms of labour and capital, and not least by the fact that the medium-sized school results leave a distance from those countries that achieve the best results. I will dare the claim that this government statement contains more answers than any other document Stortinget has seen, to the issues that the Stoltenberg government correctly raised, but did not have the power to do anything about. Maybe it was the SV working community, which is more concerned with the consumption side of the welfare state, and the Central Party working community, which is concerned that we should not do things in new ways, which have shaped the government, so that it did not act where it should know better. In this government statement that we have now received on the table, we see a coherent effort on everything from school, infrastructure, roads, public transport in cities, less use of time, simpler planning processes, greater confidence in local democracy by giving greater tasks to a popular level – the belief that people other than the state can contribute to building well-being, the desire and the promise to establish a productivity commission, where to go through all these areas more systematically. We see a clearer distinction between the capital side and the operating side in terms of public expenditure, and also by improving the management of the Community's assets and making the maintenance allowance visible, which in silence has accumulated, even though the previous government has reported from, for example. in the building message that public building had an accumulated maintenance seat trailer of 170 billion. kr, but without providing a single operational measure to do anything about it. These are major tasks that the current government is addressing. I mention, to finish, some of the menu here: bet on industrial innovation and boost research, so the business we have, outside the state, can do a better job and be internationally competitive. So there is no lack of ambition in this government statement. I want to say that it's a lot to enjoy – it's a lot to enjoy for the Nordics who are ordinary workers and creators in their work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e2739	Our new center is in the north. The shift in the pace was serious when the red-green government in 2005 made the northern regions our main strategic focus. After that, evolution has shot speed. It is an uplift for Norway as a whole, for Norway as a whole. We see clear results, and we are still seeing new opportunities. We're just in the initial phase of harvesting our oceans. The mountains hide values that can cause new growth. Travel is increasing, people from all over the world will see midnight sun, mountains, fjords and northern lights. At the same time, in the north we see the consequences of, and can learn a lot about, climate change. And to the north it opens up towards the Arctic. We must have the ambition to be at the forefront of policy-making and international initiative, just as we have set the agenda for the last eight years. When the newly appointed Minister of Foreign Affairs Jonas Gahr Støre, in a slightly younger version in November 2005, stood in the middle of the north and in many ways in the middle of the world at the University of Tromsø, he pointed to the core of a successful Northern Region policy: ‘It is about anchoring a new perspective, for the north, of course, but also for Norway and for the whole of Northern Europe.’ Now the mental image is reversed. First you stood in the north and then south. Now the glances have turned northwards, and there's no reason to turn away again. I have a strong call for the new government, and that is to hold on to the large-scale perspective – not to allow Northern Region policy to become pure district policy. A north-eastern policy will lose weight if it is reduced to a discussion on farm and service numbers. The North Sea bet shall be a national bet. There is a lot of good news about the northern regions in the government statement. Nevertheless, I miss the mention of knowledge, which is the engine of development, and not least the strategic role of educational institutions. Knowledge must be given priority. Knowledge environments need to be further built, but they cannot operate separately. Closer cooperation needs to be sought in the north, with the rest of the country and with the internationally leading trade unions. I assume that it will continue to be supported through strategic appropriations, that efforts will continue as they have been, through new building blocks in the north, through Barents 2020, and that they will continue at least at the same level. When the new government now assumes responsibility for the northern regions, we can say that it has never been better in the north. The arrow points in the right direction. I am not worried that the bet will stop with a new government. We have come too far, and the plans are clear within seafood, minerals, travel, energy, space, increased investment on roads and ports and the role of defence. You have to be very unwise or reluctant to reverse the positive trend. I don't think that's going to happen. However, I think the government parties should think through the high expectations they are now meeting, not least because they are expectations they have created themselves. In Tromsø you wait for a quick solution for toll-free E8 and a massively advertised Tromsø package. In Alta and Helgeland you also follow the toll promises. In South Troms, it is hoped that the statements on the Bjarkøy connection will be followed up after the election. Senja has noticed the offensive promises of road and ferry connections. Expectations are linked to the realization of a coastal line in Troms and Finnmark, and rapporteurs, councillors and local government representatives are looking forward to clarifying that no municipality should lose its weight on a change in the income system. In addition, along the coast there is a high voltage related to the delivery obligations. The high expectations are the result of pre-election opinions. People expect them to be fulfilled, and of course we have to keep up with them. The Workers' Party looks forward to developing the next steps of Northern Region policy along with people in the North, with knowledge environments, with businesses and with parties here on the Stortinget. We are impatient, we have great ambitions, and we want to keep the north as our main strategic field.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e2768	My goal at Stortinget is to give each person more power and destination over his own life, his own property and his own money, and that more decisions can be made by the family around the kitchen table instead of politicians sitting around the government table making decisions for them. We have now received a government that has greater confidence in the individual, putting people ahead of systems, and that will do something about the ever-growing bureaucracy. We've got a government that will create a simpler everyday life for most people. The new government will, among other things, simplify the law on planning and construction, strengthen ownership, reduce the level of taxation of ordinary workers and remove strange prohibitions such as those against Segway, pro-boking and poker. The new government will invest more in freedom of choice in both school and care. Measured against the previous government, the new government and Sundvolden statement are so absolutely a right step in the right direction. I am pleased that I am now to be part of the political majority responsible for the policy to be pursued in this country. If it's an area I'm really looking forward to taking on, it's transportation. The Norwegian people deserve better solutions in this important area, and with new government now the basis for lasting changes – changes that will lead us to think in the long term rather than in the short term, and that we make things simpler and more effective. The government will take on more new tools. An investment fund shall be established in which the annual yield will be earmarked for road construction, rail and public transport. The new government shall draw up a national motorway plan, and a company shall be set up to enable better planning and implementation, so that we can design and build larger sections in one jaf instead of piecewise and split. Uncertainty from year to year shall be replaced by stable funding over time. The Government statement also states that more roads will be built and that the toll ratio will be less than that already agreed in the NTP this summer. Only in the case of Ryfast, the tunnel section that will link the housing and labour markets of Strandaland and North Jury, will new and better loan conditions save drivers too much money. A new method of financing with state guarantees with loans to road projects will mean that several billion dollars will be saved in road projects around the country in the years to come. This is money that the drivers will now not pay, because we have got a new government that wants to get the most out of every single penny, which will run a responsible economic policy, and that will always work for the drivers to pay the minimum possible. I want to take the opportunity to point out why it is so important for me to bring down the toll percentage. Most people think of commuting distances in time and dollars, not in kilometers. If we are to have the positive impact of the large road projects planned here in the country, it is important that the drivers pay the minimum possible. I'd like to give you an example, and it's about the Rennfast tunnel project in Rogaland. It was built with a bomb in 1992 and thus linked the housing and labour market between Rennesøy and Nord-Jären closer together. Toll collection ended in 2006, and the large growth in both business and population came only in 2007, i.e. after the bomb was removed. Now the municipality of growth is number one in the country, with a growth of 24.4 pst. since 2007. The lesson of this is that if we are to achieve the highest possible benefit from the potential of major road projects, it is important to get the cost of each driver list as low as possible. I am therefore proud and pleased that we are now receiving a government that understands the value of reducing the toll share on Norwegian road projects, and then more tools are needed to reduce both planning time and construction costs. I'm proud that we now have a government that's going to bet on transportation, recognizing that good infrastructure is one of the pillars of a society, and that is now going to put new ideas into life, work in new ways, work smarter and work more long-term for the best for the most people. I am pleased to have received a government that will build the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e2785	There are some things I've got so far attached to in this debate. Firstly, I think it is a broad agreement that Norway is going well. Eight years of red-green government have changed Norway. It's been much better in most areas. It's record high employment, we have low unemployment and a very good standard of living compared to all the other countries it's natural to compare with. In addition to that, we have an economic strength that will also make us robust in the future if we manage wealth properly. The parliamentary leaders of both the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party have confirmed this today. Secondly, it is clear that responsibility is the responsibility. In the past, we were used to the same batches being a colorful opposition. Now they've become a gray, maybe a little boring position, but there's no lack of ambition. I share that view with the representative Tetzschner, who said that there is no lack of national ambitions. But the global perspective and global ambitions have been totally absent from the debate. I believe that this is a sincere basis for asking the question whether we are getting a policy – at least as far as it has become apparent – where we are going to become ourselves enough. I think there's a reason to ask that question. When I heard the speeches of both the Right and the Advance Party parliamentary leaders, I did not hear anything about the greatest challenges of our time. I heard nothing about climate, and I heard nothing about poverty problems in the world. We've taken those challenges very seriously. We have pursued a policy that is now, in the last budget, up to one per cent of GNI in aid. We have seen it as quite natural to have our own Minister of Development. If we are to succeed in the climate struggle, it will take a lot of us. We need to pursue an active and targeted policy both at home and outside, and we need to pursue a climate policy that works – working in the sense that greenhouse gas emissions actually go down as they do in Norway now. We have focused on technology, public transport, renewable energy, electric cars and reduced emissions from the car park – yes, we have put in place a climate policy that has led to reduced emissions. It is therefore gratifying that the new government is continuing that policy for all parties, except the Progress Party, has agreed. Greenhouse gas emissions need to be reduced while at the same time giving the world's poor a real opportunity to grow to increase and improve living standards. By this as a hindrance, I believe there is reason to express concern that these themes did not fit in any of the main posts of the Right and Advance Party. When we look beyond Norway, one of the most important things we can do — especially with regard to greenhouse gas emissions — is to work for a binding global agreement. Work on a global agreement is slow, and negotiations are complicated. Norway contributes in several ways in the negotiations, and some of the best in Norwegian climate policy is the focus on rainforest in the Climate and Forest Initiative. I'm curious if the blue-blue will carry out the cuts they have said before that they will carry out in the rainforest setting. It remains to be seen what the budget involves. If cut is performed, then it will be a powerful negative signal. The second is the ratio to a price of CO2, which will be the most effective means of reducing emissions. Therefore, there is reason to ask questions about the Kyoto 2 agreement. It's important. It has weaknesses, but it is nevertheless important to continue the agreement. It is now being dealt with in the Storting, and what will the Advance Party’s Group do this time – in government – in relation to the Kyoto 2 agreement? I'm asking the question, but it's a pretty important question. I have registered that the civil parties have been ambitious on behalf of the climate in the election campaign. The result is that there is little left of the big words when we read the government statement and hear the posts here in the hall. The government will be measured by what they promised in the election campaign. So far we've seen a little bit. But I hope that the ambitions before the elections will be revived in the further work, and that the policy will not be put on a track where we are enough of ourselves. I therefore hope that the government in the budget shows that it takes these conditions seriously, and that the Stortinget can get a new climate announcement and an invitation to a new climate settlement as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e2809	I hope my contribution will help to correct Aasland's impressions, because this government's platform is based on the principles of taking social responsibility and universal rights for individuals. That also applies in our meeting with the outside world. In foreign policy, this means that international solidarity should form the basis of our international commitment. The world needs to know where Norway is. Norway will play a leading role for the world’s disadvantaged, and we will never lose sight of people’s right to develop, speak and obtain education and a basis for life through work. The government's development policy is based on increasing efforts in the field of human rights, increasing democratisation through the development of civil society and good governance, as well as the possibility for more people to have the right to education and work. This is the core area of this government's aid and development policy. Humanitarian aid and poverty reduction are priority areas for this government. Crisiss and disasters continue to be a source of both political and climate change. We see it in Syria, and we've seen it on the Horn of Africa. Our new government stands ready and, together with the voluntary sector, aid actors and international cooperation channels, is ready to deliver the efforts required for the world's poor, sick and disadvantaged. The government is committed to taking a global leadership role in this work, which relates in particular to education for all. In particular, it is uplifting that the government is going so strongly on the road to lifting girls' right to education. The development policy of the new government is, in sum, marked by the fact that it takes people seriously. We will listen to beneficiaries of Norwegian support, to partners in developing countries and in middle-income countries and to actors in research environments internationally and at home. In this way, we should be better equipped to design Norwegian development and assistance. Assistance is critical, but must be followed up by other instruments. That is why I am pleased to see that the government platform provides precisely this – new instruments and objectives for investment and industrial development. This is a global trend that has come to a close in several countries and in which Norway will also take a leading role. The importance of the private sector for development is often under-communicated. If we are to achieve the goals that we all agree on, namely to get people and society out of poverty permanently, we need to focus on education and work. For this reason, the government proposes to facilitate more industrial development and investment, with the aim of generating economic growth in co-operative countries through a modern and diversified instrument where authorities and private actors in the co-operative countries have a role to play. We do not see trade as a substitute for aid, but increased trade will be taking global responsibility. Achieving the objectives of increasing trade in clear guidelines will help society out of permanent poverty. The government will give priority to capacity building, transfer of competences and technical assistance to cooperating countries to enable countries to manage their own resources. In this way, we can put Norwegian actors in contact with international partners and ensure that they – not only Norwegian authorities – also take social and solidarity responsibility. We've got a new foreign minister who puts this high on the agenda. Yes, development policy is so high that it is part of his particular responsibility, and we will see a clearer link between aid and development policy and the rest of foreign policy. It's a tough job, and a job I know he puts everything in place. We look forward to the foreign minister's ambitions regarding the achievement of results in the assistance. This is not done overnight, it requires an overall job of departments, embassies, outposts and others.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e2828	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e2831	Norwegian hospitals are today characterised by good quality, skilled employees and strong results. Activity has increased and more patients have received better treatment. Between 2005 and 2012, the number of investigations and treatments in Norwegian hospitals increased by about 1.6 million. An increasing number of patients with e.g. cancer and myocardial infarction survive to a greater extent now than before. But even though a lot is good, a lot can get better. Times are changing, new diseases are catching up, and new technologies are being developed. This makes tough demands. The strategy of the Workers' Party is to continue to give priority to the community hospital and to improve quality. That is why we promised, among other things, that: 12 B.C.E. more for hospitals, 1 million more for patient treatment and many new buildings in the hospital sector. This promise was fulfilled in our draft budget on 14 October. The blue-blue government has also given this promise to Norwegian voters. It's a pleasure. We are looking forward to the eight-year increase in employment that the government has had, and its proposal for next year's government budget, resulting in this investment being continued in fact, so that, among other things, The new psychiatry building in Trondheim can finally be built. Furthermore, the new government statement calls for the use of all good forces within the health system. But letting go of all good forces is not the same as uncritically releasing large multinational commercial companies on the Norwegian health system. For the Workers' Party, a good health service means that the public should be responsible for the overall governance and priority. A free right of establishment for commercial operators, as proposed by the new government through its proposal on free choice of treatment, will lead to increased red tape, control and waste of public funds that should – and not least – go to more and better treatments, research and new buildings. At a time when Hospital Norway is in positive development, it will work against its intention to put ideology ahead of professional environments, patient care and good resource use. Health will always be important to everyone, not just to them. It's about trust, and it's about life itself, nothing less. That is why it must also be done as best as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e2844	As a mother, politician and triple worker, I know a little bit about living life in an organized chaos. I know the stress when someone shows me a bus schedule, the bad conscience when my little girl is picked up last, and the joy of spending time with the world's most beautiful two-year-old. The life in my family is not like the neighbors, friends, or to those in the triplet group. Each family has its own peculiarity, its members, its history. Making good solutions for the family is not easy. That's why it's all right to leave it as far as possible to those who have the best knowledge of just their everyday lives, namely the family members. On the right, parents will be able to combine a professional life with the presence of the children, while at the same time there will have to be room for choice. For the last eight years, the cash support for two-year-olds has been removed. The parental leave has been granted an allowance system — with a mother’s allowance and a parent’s allowance — over which the parents cannot determine for themselves. Parents who do not have the opportunity to withdraw their allowance are deprived of the period of leave. What is this? Is it really good family policy to punish those children who don't have parents who fit into the template? The cooperation agreement and the government platform state that it will now be easier to do so. We keep our father's quota for ten weeks, but we give families who need it, more flexibility, because families are different. We will open up a trust-based exemption scheme. Taste the word: Trust-based. This is a word that we've heard too rarely in the last eight years. Not all children are ready for kindergarten when they are one year old. I have an example myself in a close family. Everyone agrees that the child should not go to the kindergarten full-time, but no one agrees on how the family should make it go about financially. For them – and many others – reintroducing cash support for two-year-olds will be a little help to get the ends to meet. The new government will trust the family and give them freedom of choice to create the good family life.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e2857	The Prime Minister stressed in his statement that the values of the government lie in the principles of the rule of law and democracy, in the Christian and humanist cultural heritage and in the universal human rights. These are a priori – they come before politics: equality, equality, freedom of expression, pluralism, religious freedom, individual freedom and secular legal rules. But what is really in these ambitions? Well, just that the individual is in the center, and that the focus is constantly directed at the individual. Differences are welcomed. Freedom of choice is cultivated. No one should be able to use ideology, culture, tradition or religion as a means of passing judgment on others. The government's value base guarantees the individual's freedom, and the rules of law are the collective insurance of society, for a crime of value will be affected by our law. The review tone of the government platform is sustainability. Sustainable welfare policy — working pay. Activity requirements will be introduced in welfare policy, and social security will be easier to move from to work. It shall be stimulated for value creation and innovation through tax relief on capital. Incentives shall be given to work by means of tax reliefs on labour input. Knowledge must be stimulated, which is the very basis for future value creation and social mobility. Human competitive instincts must be stimulated – not suppressed. Creativity, creativity, entrepreneurship should be rewarded – not punished and criticized. A sustainable immigration policy will be launched, reducing the pace of demographic change. This will ensure value and cultural integration, where more immigrants become self-held and contributeers in society and a resource in the community environment. The ambitions are great. Now we have to deliver.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e2866	The debate of the throne is one of the debates in which we can raise our eyes, and I began to look four years ago, when I held my first post as a big-time representative. I talked about the expectations of being allowed to participate in the National Assembly, and I talked about my visions, about poverty reduction, about the 25 000 children – perhaps now down to 20,000 – who die every single day before they reach the age of five, and about climate change, which also affects the poorest. I talked about an exciting period and had expectations of having a big breakthrough. I was perhaps a little naive – at least in terms of the last – because when it comes to sum up, it's been an exciting period, but I experienced a little cooperative government. That is why I am happy to be here today with a cooperation agreement. I would like to have other colors on the government, but the Christian People's Party is in a position where we have got a cooperation agreement with clear KrF coverage, where we have been protected by the Lofoten, the West and Senja. We have been clarified that oil operations should not be conducted north of the ice, that Jan Mayen should be protected, Skagerrak, Mørebanken, etc. We have raised family policy, it is freedom of conscience, etc. And not least, it is now a government that has a prime minister who talks about trust in the individual, trust in the families, and who wants to build society from below. That is why I am also extra happy to go into a period of time and know that the Storting should actually be the place where policies are developed and policies created. And that's why I don't think it's random that there are so many people who today have quoted 'all power in this hall'. As a representative of the South, and as a representative of East-Agder, I have ambitions and expectations that my part of the country will also achieve more. It's about finally getting into some major road projects, there's challenges that the University of Agder and the other new universities are not getting their share of research funding, and that it's about getting a fairly distorted distribution of police. But back to the visions that I promised four years ago – that there are 25 000 children who die every day, that there are 25 000 children who die before they reach the age of five. The big stuff. Often, development policies are debated in relation to the fact that it is not a Minister for Development or 1 pst. assistance. For me, a new course, a new government, has to provide for investment through the Oil Fund in the poorest countries to create jobs and contribute to more trade, for aid to be more effective – for health, for training and for the use of voluntary organisations. We have great ambitions to implement this policy, and that's why we're excited about the next four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e2879	I want to talk about the police here today. I have had the pleasure of being a member of the Justice Committee for four years and will continue there. We all know that the police are expensive, but it is a very good insurance and is well worth spending money on. We have a new government now, and we're all eager to see what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, and I hope that the police and the judiciary will be one of them. But it's not enough just "to bet on" – the question is also how to do it, what to do with it. The wording of the Government Declaration is that the ‘new near police’, as it is called, shall be ‘operational, visible and accessible’. But unfortunately, it's like it's about the security and patrol service that goes around and is visible in that way, that's what it's about. Unfortunately, this is often what it boils down to when we start asking what it means for the police to be visible and available in the future. I was going to have a debate on «Here and Now», and then I would pick it up on the phone from home. My eleven-year good asked what to talk about, and I told him it was about the police. Then he says, "Mom, when I hear the word "near police," I think of him Per Police. Then there was a neighbor he was thinking about. He pictured him. We call him Per Police, actually. Actually, that's exactly what this is all about. It's about growing up kids and young people seeing some faces when they think about the police, and the police know them. It's about the police being scattered throughout the country. What I'm afraid of now is that there's going to be a massive merger of the police districts and the officers' offices, which means that the police aren't spread across the country. I mean, it's expensive, but it's a good insurance, and we're going to take care of that. Everyone should be able to be safe. Albert Einstein said that's not all that counts, and that's not all that counts. When it comes to the prevention part and what the police are doing, maybe this is a good quote to take with them. It is easy to see the value of starting to look at boxes and numbers, but it is very important that the police, as we are talking about here, should be close to other actors working with children: child protection, school, health services, etc., in order to be able to prevent them. It requires a local police force, and it requires police throughout the country. What I hope the new government will do is perhaps already change their mind about what they want with the police ahead and not go into massive mergers, which unfortunately lead to these Per Police people not going to be in the community in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e2898	In the cooperation agreement between the civil parties and in the government dissidents from the Right and the Progress Party, it is called that it should pay off to work. This is a basic principle that will need to be tightened up and strengthened in the next few years. But the principle must also be an act. In the last perspective message, it appears that the future to our welfare state is insecure, at best. In 2012, we were 4.5 persons of working age per pensioner in this country. But already in 2060, the number is going to be down to 2.5. Then it says to itself that we depend on more than today getting a foot within the workplace, and that we all work more and smarter. Although Norway has a relatively high employment rate, few of us work a lot. If we adjust for part-time, the Norwegian employment rate is 61 pst, against an OECD average of 66 pst. We're the lowest in the North. If one sees such numbers in the context that we use the entire 4.8 pst. Of our GDP – 1 out of 20 cents – on sick pay and early retirement, which is also at the top of the OECD, it is clear that we are dealing with a calculation that does not go up. The left will ensure that it pays to work — even in practice. In labour and social policy, I and the Left are going to follow the new government closely. Especially when it comes to work environment laws, we see a great need for reform. People live different lives, and they also live different working lives. That's what the law has to take up. Left will liberalise the average working time calculation rules so that you can work more in shorter periods and less in other periods. We want to equate the rules for the state and the private when it comes to temporary additions, making it easier to get a foot within the labour market. We want to improve alternative rotational arrangements, where there is a local consensus. As long as between 600,000 and 800,000 people of working age are outside our working life, we cannot allow ourselves to be satisfied with the status quo. We must facilitate modern working life and change the law accordingly. The left has opted for an offensive programme to ensure safety and flexibility in working life and to ensure a sustainable welfare state where working always pays off. We hope that the new government will play with us in this work in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e2925	One of the greatest things I know about in the Norwegian community is the public high school. It's our common school, which gives everyone equal opportunities. It's a school that helped Camilla become a hairdresser, that Mani became a doctor, and that I was taught. It's a school where you're challenged by a community to get on your own path. It's a school that's changed a lot since I went there -- not because it didn't do its job, but because it's been introduced in a new era, with new students, new learning goals and new challenges. A lot has happened in recent years. It has, among other things, have been kept for several hours in Norwegian, math and English. We've introduced homework. We have developed a more specialised teacher education, and we have carried out a large-scale refurbishment of school buildings. We have strengthened the municipal economy – which means more money for each student. Norwegian school is on the right track. The students learn more than before. We have a school that reduces differences and that has managed to raise the level of the weakest students. International studies show that Norwegian 10th graders have made significant progress since 2006, both in reading, mathematics and natural sciences. In other words, we have a school that delivers, with skilled employees and students. But the school can and must be even better. The working party will continue the way we've started, rather than conducting experiments. We want to double the number of teachers who get more education. We will continue to lift the students by implementing a math lift to improve real science skills, and we will have a reading, writing and math lift to ensure that everyone learns the basic skills early on. We want to give students and teachers good jobs by cleaning up more school buildings. All of this we're going to do in the public general school. Let's do what we agree on – what we know works. The school is too important for something else. Let's use all the energy, absolutely all the energy, to make our primary school better than picking it apart bit by bit, with ranking and privatisation. Suddenly it's too late to turn around. The working party has high ambitions on behalf of all. Our goal is that more than today will be able to look back after 13 years of school and think that just that will make them look forward to the future. The head of the Education Association said well a few days ago: Norway needs a knowledge school — not a competition school. Let it be one of the most important messages to the new government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e2944	I am pleased that we now have a new government dating from the Right and Advance Party, and not least because we have an agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left here in the Stortinget. The fact that we now have a minority government is being moved more by the debate and the negotiations into the Storting, which in this way is gaining a far greater importance. This is good, because more people will be listened to to to arrive at the best results for most people – not least in the area of child and family policy, which is an important area for the new government. It is important for the government parties, the Right and the Advance Party, to respect that families are different and thus have different needs. Therefore, I would like to make it clear that the family needs to be guaranteed flexibility and freedom to choose solutions that suit the individual family. We must less attempt to exercise political control over families. Then there is a greater diversity of solutions for families with children, because society has changed a lot, and families have different needs and different ways of organizing their lives. Not all children get the protection and care they need. The government will help to establish closer cooperation between child protection, health centres, kindergartens, schools, police and nav to avoid children becoming caste balls between public institutions. Children deserve so much more than that. They're the most precious thing we have. We have no one to lose. There should be no doubt that the best interests of children should be at the root of the child-protection measures. Here it will be essential that municipal child protection, which first meets the children, is able to capture and help children who need professional help. In order to strengthen the legal certainty of children, the government will introduce a low-threshold complaint mechanism for children under the care of child protection. The government will also ensure that all municipalities are linked to a child watch regime in crisis. Because this government is concerned with ensuring the safety and freedom of the individual child to live a good life, it must mean the power of action. The government will therefore carry out a municipal reform that puts the individual in front of the system in order to enable municipalities to provide good, comprehensive and qualitative services. The government will also contribute to better and more committed cooperation between child protection and the paediatric and youth psychiatry. Unfortunately, there has been a marked increase in children and young people who are struggling with mental illness, while good action has been taken. Often these young people who are struggling with mental disorders have also developed drug dependence. It will be important to ensure that more people are treated for their suffering, in order to be able to participate in the same way as others in our society. I look forward to good debates in this Chamber in the future. I hope a broad political majority will gather to facilitate good and safe conditions for the most vulnerable in our society, namely the children who have not been so lucky to have had this as a starting point in their lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e2970	After almost 40 years of working life and six periods of active municipal and regional policy, it is honorable and inspiring to be elected spokesman at Stortinget. The fact that it occurs in an anniversary year for the general voting rights of women and men and at the start of a constitutional anniversary for Europe's oldest and the world's second oldest constitution and the existing constitution puts this ageing period in a special light. I get my foremost field of action in the Municipal and Administrative Committee, which I enjoy and thank you for. The Agreement and the Declaration of the Right and the Progressive Party have announced a comprehensive review and change of the country’s level of governance with a view to modernising and improving efficiency. It supports the Christian People's Party. Many are now excited about the processes that need to be initiated in order to change municipal boundaries, service distribution and responsibilities in a sensible way, which people understand and can accept. The correct tempo is now very important. The Christian People's Party will contribute to changes where there are obvious benefits. Now it's important to get to a cross-political process where we encourage and listen to suggestions from people and municipalities who themselves want to make constructive proposals. We need to achieve a broad process with clear objectives. New times require far-sighted solutions, and it is historic to start this in an anniversary year. From the crucifixion of Rogaland we know the story of Harald Hafrsfjord and the battle of Hafrsfjord. The nation's building went dry for hundreds of years, but then the church came with its education and establishment of primary schools and reading skills. We got our own university in 1811 – in 1814 Constitution. Then came their own coin, law against nobility and then radical presidency laws. The people gradually gained more power in lordship and county, where futs and offices, nobles and Danish fields had believed before. We got the establishment of schools and public high schools that contributed to general public education. When we finally gained sovereignty and full power in 1880 and 1905, a new democratic rule of law was established in Europe – a free Norway. This is our story. It's a community we're going to manage and process. I now believe – towards 2014 – that it is essential to achieve good participation and regional autonomy, and I look forward to addressing it. But I did not sign up to the politics and Christian People's Party 40 years ago for this matter. My driving force is based on a belief that Christian democratic ideology is the best way to develop Norway. Our national compass and the basis for the welfare state must, in my view, continue to be close love, management responsibility and a Christian view of human beings. Then future generations can celebrate on a safe basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e2981	The government says so beautifully in its platform unit, during fisheries and aquaculture: ‘Generations of the North have had the sea as a job. The government will help future generations to live by harvesting the significant seafood resources we have along our coast.’ As a fisherman, I'm one of these, and as long as I satisfy old laws and I'm an active fisherman, I'm going to continue to have my base quota. They belong to the country and community as the natural resources they are. Decisions have been taken in this room to allow some groups of fishing vessels to restructure in order to improve the economy. They can buy allowances from the neighbour or colleague – who must then find something else to do – up to five times the base quota. The decision also states that these additional allowances should be for a period of 20-30 years, and then go back to the community. The government proposes to make these allowances forever, that is, to give some fishermen the right to own a natural resource by means of a legal document forever. The Act of Participation is also proposed. We, who are from the fishing community, know that this means that other people than fishermen can own fishing vessels with fishing rights to a greater extent. Fishing quotas and rights will end up on the stock exchange as a commodity, not as a resource providing coastal settlement and work and large values of export income to the country. The government will also provide for the structuring of coastal jacks — vessels below 11 metres — and introduce free capture of king crabs outside commercial areas. This has already been established for several years. The government will also open up the possibility of co-fishing, which has also been established for several years. Yes, we are clearly surprised when we see these proposals. I quote from the government platform: ‘Changes shall be predictable and contribute to the strengthening of Norway’s position as a maritime nation.’ This is not predictability for me or for fishermen with bats on their boots, but it is predictability for investors far from the fishing boat. It tells me rather about a government that has been both heavy sea sickness and mischief during the writing process.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e3000	To the new government, I initially want to say that many of the proposals in the government platform and the signals coming in the Storting are something many of us are pleased about. And as we said in criminal custody -- at least in my time: it's important that we give people a chance -- without comparison. I think you should respect the fact that people will be allowed to sit down before you are driven heavily to the wall. This does not mean that there is not much tension attached to many of the issues that many of us are very concerned about. I could talk for a long time about justice policy – I see the Minister of Justice is present in the Chamber – I won't do that. But I want to get to grips with some of the things that are really below when most of us give strong evidence that we are happy in this country. It's a Norway we're happy in, mainly because it lives mostly everywhere, and we also have something to live from everywhere. In this way, our primary industries – fish, clean, agriculture, forestry – have a very central place in how people feel, what kind of welfare societies we have, and that we have managed to build a society that is not just talking about urbanisation. That is why I am pleased that we have a government that also speaks in the government platform about predictability in agricultural policy and for primary industries. The crucial thing, of course, is what lies in this predictability, and I believe that, in the light of the debate over the last few days, a rapid response to the essential issues of agricultural policy is required. When it is now very clear that we want to liberalise the legislation relating to agriculture and forestry, it is necessary, for predictability, for the government to decide quite quickly whether to abandon the initiative and the objective we have, among other things. to have an agricultural policy throughout the country. When you talk about simplifying the agricultural agreement in these days and in the government platform, does it mean that you leave the goal of increasing income for those who feed just on agriculture? Does this mean that there will be significant cuts, including: in the transfers which benefit Norwegian farmers each year? I think it is important to clarify this in order to get the predictability that future generations, younger generations, are now waiting for: are you going into a particular important industry for Norway? In this area, it is a bit like what the representative, Mr Bjørnø, said in his statement on school, that much of what is done in this policy area can mean that action is being taken which is not reversible. This is why this deserves a quick clarification.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e3015	On the right, policies will rely more on trust — trust in the individual, trust in the family, community and volunteering. If you give freedom of choice and trust to someone, you free creation and desire to work. At the same time, this fundamental position is also a fundamental difference when the new government is to address cultural policy. Norway is small. Large resources go to play when we make policies to fight between the public, voluntary and private sectors. For everyone has a lot to contribute. It is this that is «all good powers». If we manage to put them into practice, we get more commitment, and we create big things together, even if we're a small country. Just as in business, it is also important in cultural life that we use our resources more to build for the future. We must better than today seize the unique opportunity we have to create lasting values for future generations. The trust of the Right has in the individual, the freedom we want to give to direct our own lives without interference from politicians and bureaucrats, without any special prohibitions and regulations, but by simplifying laws and regulations – all this builds up under the freedom reform that Right wants for culture in Norway. The cultural promise is far from the finish of the promise. There has been a good growth in the cultural budgets, but lean increase in the audience. Instead of more art and culture, we've gone several places to more employees behind the stage instead of on stage. Almost all cultural use has fallen from 2008 to 2012, despite record growth in budgets. Less and fewer go to theatres and art exhibitions. It may seem that, unfortunately, red tape has also taken place with full emphasis in the cultural sector. The voters have asked for new solutions to the challenges we are facing. That's why Right is going to work for the spread of power. We will review cultural appropriations to ensure sound resource use and quality. We also need to look at broader funding of cultural life. We need to think more about culture as a nourishment. We need to strengthen the opportunities for entrepreneurship in the cultural sector. The rules for self-employed artists must be simplified. We need to facilitate opportunities for young talents, regardless of their social and economic background, including: through cooperation with voluntary actors. Private funding of cultural life needs to be strengthened, which could gradually reduce dependence on public funding and also give freedom from political leadership. Culture must be freed to a greater extent.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e3032	A good health service for everyone is one of the most important carriers in our welfare community. Over the last eight years, the Labour Party has been helping to strengthen the hospital service, clearly distort the resources so that more people are being treated in their own homes and are ready to offer new finances to municipalities, so that they can provide better services to the elderly and caregivers where they need it. The result is that we live longer, and that more people have improved their quality of life. Even though we've achieved a lot, we're busy solving these problems better and looking for new knowledge. We note that much of what is launched in the Declaration of Accession as new measures has already been launched by the red-green government. In the election campaign, the Right was quick to overwhelm our proposal for twelve billion new to hospitals over the next four years. We are very pleased about that. However, there have also been clear promises of free treatment options, which involve opening the door wide open to private operators with suction pipes right into the common fund. But it is still unclear how this is to be financed. Another feature of the campaign was the removal of regional health businesses. But little has been said about the options. We fear that this is not so thoroughly investigated either. But as representatives from the West, we remember well how long it took to correct the regional division of imbalances, and we will not accept that it will happen again. We are open to discussing improvements, but do not believe that increased centralisation and bureaucracy are the solution. These include: the regional self-government that has enabled Haukeland University Hospitals to develop to be a leader in cancer treatment. We expect the blue-blue government to follow up the red-green promise to invest in a new particle therapy centre in Bergen. The Workers' Party supports the government's desire to prioritise care and psychiatry. But it is absolutely essential that we focus on quality and not just quantity. It turns out that in Hordaland private clinics stood for 90 pst. the treatment capacity up to 2009. Thus, the public did not have an overview of patients, knowledge of quality, what had the effect and the ability to prioritize those patients who needed it the most. Today, Health-Bergen has established a drug department with one joint reception and development of daily and daily services. As of today, they have no deadlines and waiting lists go down. For the Workers' Party, people's need for health care is governing our health policy and not the individual's economy or position. We are not fundamentally opposed to private actors, but health is so complex, with so many special interests, that there is a need for strong political governance and public control to ensure the effectiveness and fair distribution of health resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e3051	The new government will work for a living local democracy and a simpler everyday life for most people. The country shall be built through more knowledge that provides opportunities for all. Through a historically strong bourgeois majority, voters have asked for new ideas and better solutions. They'll get it. People will notice that the country has got a new government. Over the course of eight years in the opposition, we have heard that there has never been more money used than with the red-green ones. For the new government, it will be central to looking at how the money is spent. In order to provide security in everyday life, the government will strengthen preparedness. We want to increase the competitiveness of Norwegian jobs, and we need to focus more on knowledge, infrastructure and growth-promoting tax incentives, in line with the intention of the rule of action. The government will base its policy on social responsibility and publicly funded welfare solutions. A good social safety network shall ensure equal opportunities for all. It is a challenge that some people with a high need for health care do not get the help they need. Security of assistance and care when needed, with a Right Party and Advance Party government, should be a pillar of our welfare society. One of the main government messages is a welfare promise for the elderly and sick. In order to strengthen the patient’s rights and the provision of drugs and mental health, the government will launch a stepping-up plan for drug use. For accelerated treatment, patients shall be able to choose between the free capacity of public, private and non-profit actors. A long-lasting escalating plan for the rehabilitation field shall also be established. The reduction of rehabilitation in specialist health services must be stopped before the corresponding capacity and competences are built up in the municipalities. For the new government, it is also a clear objective to shut down regional health businesses once a national health and hospital plan has been drawn up. There is a great need to strengthen and modernise health and care services in municipalities as well. Interaction reform is demanding for many municipalities. That the government will reverse municipal co-financing in hospitals is therefore a good start to improve the situation. In order to succeed in the reform, municipalities need to be guaranteed good competence transfer, robust professional environments and sufficient capacity in several areas. As a member of the Health and Care Committee, I look forward to addressing the important task of improving the coordination of the overall health service in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e3066	Transport and education are extremely important for the country’s value creation and for future industrial development, and thus for the development of the welfare society. There is an urgent need for a collective commitment and a lifting of road maintenance, not least with regard to the roads transferred from the state to the county councils, which are now the responsibility of the counties. The counties are unable to stop the increase in maturity by the means so far put on the table. My county, Møre and Romsdal, alone have a maintenance seat for 5.6 billion. kr. In addition, there are major challenges in the lack of ferry capacity in many coastal areas. Significant traffic growth combined with service disruption and poor spare material makes it necessary to focus more on the additional costs and disadvantages of this both for commercial traffic and general traffic. On Halsa-Kanestraum, the northernmost ferry section on E39, the situation is very difficult. The country has a significant economic and development potential that has not been redeemed, because it is hampered by a lack of investment in transport and transport. That's what I and Left want to use our position on Stortinget in the coming years to do something about. Competence in the form of research, training and recruitment of skilled labour is another key factor in industrial development and innovation in the labour market. Not least for the climate and environmental challenges we face, which, in the view of the Left, is absolutely crucial. I would also like to stress the importance of investing in entrepreneurship at school, both in primary and secondary schools. This is required for new generations to be more successful than we are to start and develop our own business, and is central to the industrial policy of the Left. In More and Romesdal, we have three colleges – Molde, Volda, Ålesund – that each do a good job, but the county needs a stronger force. In line with a unanimous decision in the county, I want a common college in the county that can become a more robust, powerful and collective college that is even more interesting for students, researchers and business than what we have today. An important element of such an establishment is to ensure that Kristiansund appears on the map in the form of a separate department in addition to today’s three educational sites. We know that there is a significant link between the choice of place of education and where the student gets work and becomes a resident after finishing education, so this is important. I would like to encourage the new government to allocate funds already in the next year's budget so that the higher education offer that exists in Kristiansund through the cooperation with the three colleges in the county can be further developed and strengthened. It's not the big money, but they're important in both the short and the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e3087	In 2009, Torbjørn Røe Isaksen and Ine M. Eriksen Soreide announced that they wanted to transfer the competitive culture of sport to school education. Red Isaac said then: ‘Competitions are fun and create enthusiasm. Today, we only have sports, but not at school. We want those who do well at school to be appreciated." Since that time a lot has happened, for example: has the debate on the characters of the nine-year-old race – a debate that, after this representative’s opinion, lost its right. The new government statement conceals this requirement behind vague wording, but we know that in the government there is a deep faith that competition creates a better school. We also know from other countries, from elephants, teachers and researchers that this vision of knowledge does not create better learning – it creates poorer learning, even for the univers. Tests and exams mean that the teaching is about answering right after the book, not necessarily being able to do anything and could use it for anything. So where does it come from, this test and competition vision? Is it possible that the driving force behind Røe Isaksen's belief in getting first and last places is drifting from his sporting interest – that one wants to create a school that is not for those who are there, but for those of us who are watching? The upcoming period will be an entry between the right-hand dog school and SV's knowledge school.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e3100	I had an article in the newspapers this summer, entitled “Ten Vardane – Erna Is Near”. There I focused on five main areas where the differences are very large between the Right, the Advance Party and the Workers' Party. It was our municipalities, our hospitals, our localities, our guards and our language – important areas for Sogn and Fjordane. After reading the government statement, I was left with more questions than answers to these issues. Primary industries first: Agriculture and fisheries are important pillars for us to have light in the houses along the whole coast and throughout the country. What we now know about agriculture is that it has to be simplified. But does that apply to the number of measures or volume? We also know that the obligation must be removed. But was it really 'landlords' they wanted, the so-called overwhelming plural that voted for a new government? Fishing: Should there still be active fishermen holding the quotas? Did the Norwegian people agree that the Community's resources, the fish in the sea, should be managed from Oslo? Who's gonna own the fish in the ocean? The seafood report on Norway, which is the world's leading seamat nation, which we adopted in June, had great ambitions for aquaculture and fisheries. I can't actually find this level of ambition in the government statement of the blue-blue. What happens to our small municipalities? Here, too, it's impossible to get answers. Based on what we have heard in the debate today, the only thing we know is that the declaration is very small in terms of local economy. There is no ambition to strengthen the free income so that the quality of service provision in municipalities can be improved. We know that a change in the income system will have negative consequences for very many small municipalities. Then I send a kind thought to Right-President Mathias Råheim in Gaul, who is cheering in the newspaper Firda to be the budget winner of the red-green municipality, and tossed the cake on everyone. I actually hope everyone added a piece of cake, because it may be a long time until the next time it will be an opportunity to celebrate. We know that it is Bærum who wins a policy where the population counts more and more, if the corporate tax becomes municipal again, and bullying becomes a foreword. There is no recipe for growth of Sogn and Fjordane. Our local hospitals: After two days in government, the Right Party and the Advance Party dropped the removal of regional health professionals during this period. However, they did not drop the fact that patients should be able to shop where they want to and that the public should pay. Private individuals should be able to rely on taxpayers' bills, and there is nothing to suggest that there will be a better and wider supply in Sogn and the Fjords. The Nynosken hangs itself further because there is not a multiple in Stortinget to take him away. Luckily, however, this government lacks implementation. It could be the rescue for us in Sogn and Fjordane.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e3117	In June, the police analysis was presented by the Røksund Committee. The analysis shows that Norway today does not have a uniform police force. There are wide variations in the police service provided to the population. In addition, the analysis concludes that the police are neither well organized nor equipped to deal with the crime we face. In the coming period, we will examine this important analysis and implement a reform of the police, a reform with two key elements: changing structure, freeing resources to meet core tasks, and quality reform, in order to develop a knowledge-based and effective police with the capacity for continuous improvement and development. Police have an important role to play in giving us the security we expect, and that is an important foundation for our society and for the democracy we have. For government parties, it will be important to restructure the police and create a powerful and modern organisation that will be even better to prevent and combat crime. The objective of the new local police force is to be operational, visible and accessible by the police, with the capacity to investigate and prosecute criminal acts. For the right, it is important to ensure increased basic police personnel. Therefore, it is gratifying that the government platform of the Right and the Advance Party also emphasises this, and has a target of two police per 1000 inhabitants by 2020. Without concluding on the forthcoming treatment of police reform, it is no surprise that the government parties also see the end of a merger of police districts, to fewer and more robust police regions. At the same time, we need to address the geographical challenges and problem solutions we have, especially in North Norway. Nord-Norway is large and has many additional tasks: Finnmark, with its demanding tasks in managing border problems, Troms, which is also responsible for marine areas and Svalbard, and Nordland, which are also responsible for managing the main rescue centre. The treatment should take into account the fact that Norway is also a country outside the major cities. We have fjords, mountains and long distances between the settlements. At the same time, we should keep the overall goal – a police force that gives us security in everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e3134	For several decades I have enjoyed working well with the Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right, both in different local governments and in several counties. With the government of Solberg, I have finally been given the opportunity to continue this good experience into a good cooperation with the government and big business. The policy platform from Sundvolden has provided an excellent basis for a new course and a new direction in Norwegian policy, which will make everyday life easier, among other things. local politicians, businesses and most people. The tax lists were recently submitted. There you can see that Hedmark is the country with the lowest average income. Of course, for a politician from Hedmark, this is not a pleasant reading, but I am convinced that the good objectives set out in the Sundvolden Declaration will help to lift Hedmark out of the ‘oil shadow’ and away from this budgeting. In the platform there are a lot of good examples to show. I don't have the opportunity to mention everyone here, but I want to go into some areas, among other things. the important area of transport. If it says so: ‘The commitment to the development of road and public transport is increased in addition to the adopted national transport plan.’ Getting a faster deployment of double tracks in the intercity triangle and getting four fields on the main road network, such as E6, E16, Rv. 3/rev. 25, it is vital to link the country together, but also to link Hedmark and its hinterland closer to Oslo, so that we can become part of the Oslo region. This is very important in terms of both commuting, housing and employment. A rise in education, to which the platform provides, with an increased focus on competence and the teacher, is also important for Hedmark and the interior. 50 pst. of all timber harvested in Norway comes from Hedmark and Oppland. All 30 pst. come from Hedmark. Agriculture and forestry are important industries for inland use. With the good objectives set out in the platform, and with a very sympathetic and capable Minister of Agriculture, I am convinced that the concern expressed by parts of the farming industry will prove to be unjustified. A reduction in red tape, reduced taxes and taxes, a review of the depreciation rules and longer and heavier vehicle combinations will benefit farmers, forestry and industry in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e3152	The census was clear in many areas and gave clear signals of continued commitment to important Community solutions, including: school, health, care, culture, climate and environment. That's good. The new government's declaration of accession was almost as clear and clear, although we see it pointing in a different direction from what the content of the census does. The government's policy, as far as I can see, turns our important Community solutions into privatisation in both care and school, health and transport. The new government says it has great confidence in local and regional elected and individual people for the rest. That's good and wise. But in the next sentence we are told that there will be a major municipal reform, where one with coercion will merge municipalities, no matter what our wise citizens and elected members of the population may think. This is not related. The Labour Party is not opposed to community mergers in general, but believes it is wise for such a debate to be taken locally, and for our local and regional elected representatives to have their say in the matter. I would already like to point out that the large financial savings that you think are coming from municipal mergers are unlikely to materialise. Municipal welfare production in care, school, kindergartens and culture has a cost. Eight out of ten municipal bills are going to pay the people who work to produce well-being, regardless of whether the municipality is small or large. What is often the big challenge, especially around the larger cities, is spatial planning. It can be solved in good inter-municipal cooperation and is not in itself a good argument for a large-scale coercion of municipalities in this country. The new government is also flagging changes in the Working Environment Act, in order to extend the possibility of temporary employment, open up to Sunday trade in general and to changes in working time regulations such as: regulates overtime use. I can't see that these changes will make everyday life a simpler and better place for the vast majority of the population. It is not possible to measure or judge the new government on this declaration. What is possible, on the other hand, is that I do not find the many election vows that we heard. I also fail to find the solutions that we all heard throughout the election campaign that the Right and Advance Party had. I look forward to the government starting to concreteise the issues it has notified and driven by election promises, so that we can constructively debate how we can maintain/strengthen the local economy, continue to invest in school and care, continue to invest in regional and local cultural services – largely continue to invest in welfare services where people live.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e3171	The government is adding up to a new big city policy. It will increase the capacity of existing collective services and rethink transport solutions in and around cities. The population is growing rapidly, especially in the urban regions. When the development of roads and collective services becomes dependent on population growth, it creates pressure on housing prices, more commuting and longer queues. In this context, closer cooperation with municipalities and counties is needed. It is necessary to establish a common understanding of what is a proper bet in each city and region, otherwise the best thing can be the enemy of the good. At the same time, it will ensure that the development of large, demanding collective investment is accompanied by sustainable node development. In this context, I would particularly like to point out the positive fact that the Government in its Declaration of Accession opens up for it to conclude binding development agreements. There is something that counties and municipalities have been waiting for. The government announces a significant increase in the appropriations for new bus and track solutions. In the Oslo region, the Fornebu track and the Aarhus track are expensive t-track projects that can only be realised by significant State involvement. Faced with the strong population growth, especially in urban areas, railway investment has several aspects. Firstly, betting on the intercity triangle, including the new Oslo tunnel and the Follo line, will contribute to the expansion of the common housing and labour market. This will help to spread growth, which needs to be seen as a major advantage. Secondly, a well-developed railway will be the backbone of the transport from the surrounding country into the big cities. In Akershus, the bus routes are converted so that passengers are more likely to be taken to railway stations with frequent train departures. This is a contributing reason why the passenger growth of the NSB is now above 8 pst. and at the height of the growth of other public transport services in Akershus. The third area is rail as a freight forwarder. Here it is necessary to increase the rate of expansion. Intercity development will also play an important role here. But I want to pay particular attention to the need for cross-border freight traffic, both in the north and in the south. In its comments on the NTP, the Right addressed a Scandinavian transport strategy. My experience is that we in Norway, Sweden and Denmark have come a long way with this at the regional level, but that there has been a vote at the national level, where decisions are to be taken – especially on the Norwegian side. The government is adding up to an active metropolitan policy. It is important that we succeed. It will be crucial for the rest of the country. In the context of NTP, visions for public transport were formulated. Not unexpectedly, this is now the government's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e3186	Regeninga Solberg has announced a significant privatisation and commercialisation of the major welfare tasks. The Prime Minister stressed when she presented the government statement in Stortinget that private individuals had to get away to a much greater extent, for example. in the health care system, because the use of ‘all good forces’ and all available capacity, as she expressed it – and as several others have repeated today. Very familiar, no doctors, nurses or other professionals go around the road and kick in pebbles without anything to do. It is more likely that the health and care sector is often lacking professionals, despite the fact that for eight years we have invested heavily in both education and the creation of more annual work in the sector. There is also no unused bag that can only be used by private drivers, quite apart from other budgets. If private individuals are to have extensive access to health and care, they must transfer funds from public service providers. Therefore, several Norwegian health services warn against so-called free choice of treatment or freedom of establishment for private, commercial operators, which is, of course, the right name. Head of the Norwegian Nurses' Association, Eli Gunhild City, calls this “wrong medicine” in an article in the Daily Newspaper today, and recently the director of the University Hospital in North Norway, Tor Ingebrichtsen, went out to the media and warned against extensive privatisation, because with this we want to drain the public hospitals of resources, both economic and professional. He stressed in particular that such a policy would go beyond the important distribution between regions — privatisation, as it is known, has a tendency to be highly centralised. The government can't have calculated or analysed what could be the consequences of its privatisation policy – or is it the ideology that is troubling other considerations here? The Health Policy of the Workers' Party is determined: we want public responsibility for both priorities and distributions in health and care services, where private and non-profit actors are complementary, but based on defined needs. That is why, before the elections, we put forward a concrete and binding plan for strengthening and expanding our public hospitals. The plan describes four important objectives: to increase quality, to reduce waiting time, to keep the excesses low and to ensure the recruitment of good professionals. We committed ourselves to increasing the appropriations for the public hospitals by 12 billion. kr in the next four years. The right-hand side also gave a I expect them to keep that promise – in that case they will be supported by the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e3195	Everyone should be sure that they receive a good health offer, regardless of their place of residence and wallet. The left will have a good public health service with such good quality that there is no class distinction in the healthcare system. Unfortunately, there are too many stories about people who do not receive the necessary health care. In particular, this applies to psychiatry, care for drug users, care for the elderly and the protection of children. Often it follows with the stories that both the patient and the family have tried quite hard, quite long and in several ways to get help. The left has more entrances to strengthen healthcare provision. We want a review of both bureaucracy, organisation and division of tasks, actors, priorities and investments – without losing sight of the patient. The Government Platform states that the government will reduce the bureaucracy in order to free up more time and capacity for patient treatment. This is one of the first actions left will support below. We want a Commission to evaluate health management, with a view to eliminating unnecessary reporting and reducing red tape. We think there are too many laws, regulations, performance targets, mission, reporting requirements and forms that take too much time from patient treatment today. We think a lot can be solved with increased confidence in professionals and local decisions, combined with better information, increased service and better ICT solutions. Then we see a challenge in today's organization. Health enterprises are increasingly specialised, while care tasks are transferred to municipalities, without being able to perform the tasks adequately. This is particularly true in the area of drugs and psychiatry, but we also see ambitious investment plans for new hospitals, which indicate a direction that means that municipalities must be able to meet new challenges in the areas of responsibility, advanced care and simpler somatics. To address these challenges more optimally, we need a new municipal structure, and we need a national hospital plan. The left is positive to the government's ambitions here, but we'll be impatient. Rightly, we're going to have a better alternative to regional health businesses in place before we wind them up, but four years on notice is going to wait too long. We are also in favour of the government's wish to set up Hospital Buildings as a management body for investment and operation in the hospital sector. Defence buildings have also been a conditional success. Only in the next four years is there announced investments of over 36 billion. in hospitals. In addition, there are several very large investment plans on the wallet after 2017. Here we need to find a balance between investment in what people most need, that is, the general medical and decentralised, and the specialised and centralised. In this picture, we need to clarify the tasks of local hospitals, what an area or regional hospital should be, what university hospitals should do, and what national functions should be. The left is also committed to increasing cooperation with Sweden and Denmark in particular to allocate some specialised functions between countries and to invest more collectively in medical engineering equipment and research. To do this, we need increased Nordic cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e3208	It has been said from this pulpit that the welfare state is on rocking ground and that we cannot afford it in the future. It's nothing new, it's just a more sophisticated way it's presented today. It is based on a ‘whom to go out’ mentality. The protection of workers in the Working Environment Act, we are told, must be weakened, and that is in the name of the welfare state. The right to a permanent and secure job needs to be weakened — in the name of the welfare state. In short, power has to be shifted upwards from the employee to the owner in order to preserve the welfare state, says, among other things. Representative Rotevatn. That's because it has to pay off to work. It's a sentence that should be a matter of course, but it's become something completely different. It has become such a politically charged sentence. The pension for the disabled is to be cut by the Right and the Advance Party so that it is worth working, but the cash support is to be strengthened. Then it is no longer so important that it pays to work, then it is trust in the individual that counts – trust in some people, trust in healthy people, but not trust in what people get together. In the debate on the future of the welfare state, neither the Working Environment Act, our entire jobs nor the safety net are sacred. I think that the concern of Rotevatn and the right-hand side would have taken more if one based an understanding of what it is that makes the welfare state so special and unique and successful. It's nice to be a politician and talk about trust in the individual, but it doesn't trust the individual, for example. to send a young girl to a fast shop until she finds a doctor who will refer her, just as little as it's the confidence of the individual to cut the pension into disability that can't do anything because they can't work, because the math doesn't go up, just as little as it's the confidence of the farmer to say that he's kept alive by a communist system or to force through private schools that the teachers themselves warn against. The government's platform bears the mark, does not trust individuals, trusts the excellence of its own political solutions and systems, without allowing the success of the welfare state to be based on a much more fundamental trust, and it is the confidence we create that everyone contributes, that everyone can see that even the richest contribute, and that everyone can see that even those who are weaker, or who are most outside right now or who cannot work, that they too have it decently. It's the opposite of the political liberalism of the right, regardless of what rhetorical wrapping it comes with. It has been said that we had horrors in the election campaign, but I will now say, when I have read the Right and the Political Platform of the Advance Party, that the Right and Advance Party voters have got a lot of right-wing policy back for their voices – unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e3219	Since the takeover by the government of Stoltenberg in 2005 and until today, the value creation in the maritime industry has doubled and today accounts for 150 billion. kr. The Government of Stoltenberg identified the maritime industry as one of five industrial policy areas. The maritime sector has been active and targeted over eight years. They presented a new maritime strategy, Stø kurs 2020, where the vision is that Norway should be one of the world's leading nations and an attractive maritime yard country. It is important that this industry is provided with predictable framework conditions. It has been done by the Workers' Party through an active industrial policy. We have used different schemes in the instrumentation, including: through Innovation Norway, GIEK and Export Credit Norway. In addition, during the financial crisis, the government presented its own yard package, which contributed greatly to the recovery of the industry through the crisis. In the South, the maritime industry is of great importance for employment. The ship yard Simek is the corner stone company in Flekkefjord. And in particular, the development of the offshore industry in the South has to be mentioned through 60 enterprises connected to the NODE network. This is an example of industrial change that has contributed to a more robust regional industrial structure and to the development of new regional skills jobs. NODE is one of four networks currently in the Norwegian Centre of Expertise. It was therefore very well received when the government proposed 10 million kroner. a new comprehensive programme offer, namely the Global Centre of Expertise. This can be a big start by supporting the development of strong clusters with the services of the instrument adapted to strategic activities to enhance cluster knowledge and innovation. Further reinforcement of GIEK by 10 billion. kr is also important both for shipbuilding and the maritime industries. We have proposed to legislate a net pay scheme for seafarers in our party program. For this four-year period, we have also decided to raise the ceiling. What concerns me, however, is that the new government, the Right and the Advance Party, is vague about the net pay system and who is to be included in it, and has not mentioned anything in a word about an active industrial policy. I have also noticed that these parties have cut off regional development funds in their budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e3234	This is the first debate in my second period of the Storting, and it's nice to be here in front of a national assembly of civil pluralities, many capable councillors from the Right and the Progress Party and Erna as Prime Minister. It is great to meet at the Storting and to know that one has gained confidence from people through elections, and that one should be involved in managing a political plurality that will speed up our country and further develop our democracy with a much stronger and real local democracy. The reforms to be implemented by the government will be marked by the fact that there is a new political plurality, which has different values and priorities. It is very gratifying to note that the government will facilitate much greater confidence in the inhabitants and local democracy, and that the new reforms will be designed from a generation perspective. Right has always been a strong defender of local democracy and private ownership. Local self-determination guarantees proximity to the decisions, right of consultation for the inhabitants and a living democracy. We believe that the spread of power makes society stronger, and that strengthening local self-government and much more respect for private ownership are an important foundation for such a spread of power. The new government will provide for a new model of environmental and land management to create a better balance between state and local governance, where the concerns of individuals and communities are maintained far better than today. It is important to develop a model of natural and environmental management based on ownership principles and local self-government. It means spread of power in practice. There are many important points in the new government platform that will strengthen local democracy, and it says, among other things.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘Locally, you know your own challenges the best. The government will therefore facilitate more local spatial policy adjustment. The ability of the county council to review the judgement of the elected public authorities is reduced by limiting the possibility to review municipal decisions to legal review and review complaints. Municipalities shall also be given decisive importance in matters relating to national parks and protected areas, and have greater autonomy, inter alia, in the coastal zone.’;» Furthermore, it says: ‘Give municipalities administrative responsibility in local protection areas. Allow municipalities to manage motorised driving in outland.» Local involvement is important and decisive. This is an important element of a comprehensive community reform aimed at strengthening municipal self-government, and it is a good starting point for a forward-looking policy based on confidence in individuals, families and communities. I hope that several parties, including outside the four cooperating parties, will join in such a reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e3264	Culture is absolutely necessary for a society. History is going to look at how we, elected by the people in this great period, prioritised culture. Culture is essential to our democracy, community, freedom of expression, and not least it says something about our identity. Any identity process starts with the question, who are we? Art and culture might give us the best answers to that very question. We need culture that challenges, unites and makes us stretch as individuals, not least in common, and to show diversity. Is there anyone today asking questions about the scholarships that Munch got? Is there anyone today asking whether the cultural effort in Norway has historically been too high? Or would we wish that before we had invested even more? I think the answer gives itself. Historically, a society has never been able to afford to overlook culture. The societies that have chosen to rule by depriving culture have in the long run lost an important part of themselves. It is therefore very worrying that the government has not found culture important enough to have this as one of its most important policy areas. That's why it's important for us in Stortinget to have a special focus on the area. In order to preserve and develop our culture, we must cultivate it and give it a good condition. It's our responsibility, the politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e3283	Every day the members of the government have been obtained. The answers are not as clear as they were a few weeks ago. The solutions are not as simple as they were a few weeks ago. And it's like this is about people who aren't supposed to be in this country, but who can't be sent out because it's problematic to send them to their home country – it wasn't that easy to get them out anyway. That's whether it's about people who don't get exactly the treatment, or exactly the medicine they want right when they want it. Before the election it was unproblematic, now it is necessary to look a little closer to the issues before you can comment. This is the case with all the transport projects to be built. There was basically no way what was going to happen within both rail and road. One of the government parties was even to build a lot more road – enormously much more road – without tolls. A number of road projects were promised, now nothing is said at all. And when the Minister of Transport is asked about a project as large as the Free E39, there is no comment either. And it's not exactly a little walkway or a little fill project we're talking about, but a big and important project for large parts of our coast. Today we have heard that the speakers of the Progress Party have at least learned one number, and that is important: 16 percent. Yes, because we've heard time after time that it was only 16 pst. by the voters who voted in the Advance Party. It almost seems that the speakers of the Progress Party are happy that there were no more than 16 pst. who voted in favour of the Advance Party. We all understand that everything in the Progress Party program cannot be realized by this government. We get that, and we're not going to expect that. And we realize that everything in the Right Program can't be realized. We get that. That's how it is to enter into a government alliance. But in those matters the two government parties agree, there should be zero problem. Then we have to expect that the policy which the government will put forward on the Grand Duchy and govern the country after, will be as the two parties promised the voters before the elections. When we dealt with the national transport plan in the previous enlargement, both government parties would increase the framework of the national transport plan. The progress party would increase them a lot more. Right would raise the frames a little bit more. We must now expect that the government will be guided by a transport plan in which they will meet somewhere between what was proposed by the Right and what was proposed by the Advance Party. Or should the government govern on the basis of the national transport plan adopted by the previous bulk of the population? It'll be interesting to see.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e3296	On 9 September, the voters assembled a new magnificence in which the four non-socialist parties were given a historically strong mandate to jointly govern this country. It is very gratifying to see that both the cooperation agreement agreed between the four parties and the government platform of the Right and Advance Party will govern the country after, place great emphasis on the generation perspective. In the increasingly hectic media debate, it may sometimes be difficult to see the long lines when different proposals are being debated. That is why it is all the more gratifying that the new majority in this Chamber raises the long lines of Norwegian policy, by drawing out both the amazing opportunities we have as a nation and the challenges we face. Although this increase has been chosen for the next four years, the choices we make in this room now will lay the foundation for the well-being of the country for decades to come. The huge income we have will not last forever. Therefore, we need to use the space we have to invest for the future rather than fall for the temptation to spend only on short-term solutions and measures. The election campaign we've put behind us was a lot about the generation perspective. The voters were confronted with two clear alternatives, and I am pleased to note that they gave a solid mandate to the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left to jointly govern the country. We need to make greater use of petroleum revenues to invest in lasting values for the country, and our main national wealth is not below sea level, but in classrooms. It is vital for the future that we create a school that provides opportunities for everyone and that we invest so that we can realize the knowledge society. We owe the six-year-olds that this autumn went into the schoolyard for the first time, to have as high ambitions on their behalf as they have on their own. And anyone who's talked to one of these students knows that those ambitions are sky-high. The school is for the students, but we also know that the main factor for each of them to achieve their goals is that they meet a good teacher in the classroom. For this reason, one of the most important long-term investments we can make for the future is the notified investment of the Right Party Government. By investing heavily in the continuing training of teachers, creating better and more comprehensive teacher training and, not least, by ensuring career paths for our skilled teachers in classrooms, we ensure that students are given the best possible starting point. Some representatives have said on this platform that this is a continuation of the policy of the old government. Then it's a little funny to hear the Education Association cheering over a new government that finally bets on the teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e3311	Norway is facing major challenges in the transport sector. There is a significant downturn on roads and on the railways, and the decline continues to increase in the absence of sufficient appropriations to prevent further deterioration. Both the climate agreement and the NTP say that the future population growth in and around the major cities should be avoided with collective, bicycle and walking efforts. The climate agreement and NTP commit. It is therefore necessary for the new government to provide state funds to provide collective services for tomorrow throughout the country. The Cooperation Agreement between the Government Parties and the Left and Christian People's Party shows that the transport sector is going to have a greater stake than the NTP provides. We in the Left will follow that closely in the budgetary procedure. Yesterday and today there has been a large conference at Gardermoen where business, among others. addresses the question of the maturity of the railway, which means that more goods are moved from track to road, opposite to what we politicians want. There is more danger in traffic, and it represents greater wear and tear on the roads. For business it is also a long way to go getting goods by rail; it is far more cost-effective. But business doesn't trust prosperity. There are unpredictable breeds, delays and sometimes weekly settings. In our budgets, we in the Left want to give more priority to preventing further decay and to improving existing lines. For the Left, in particular, the roads that are important to business will be a priority. But for the Left as a whole, it is collective and railway that will be the main priority. We believe that in order to realise the climate agreement and the NTP at least, it is necessary that the state contribute 50 pst. State participation in large collective development, the need to be more rewarding, involving more urban areas, and the need to make greater State contributions to cycling and walking paths. Intercity is something that all politicians are talking hot about. We in the Left believe that it must be expanded as a large project, right up to the end stations. It's to waste the Community's resources when we build in stages. We in the left want it to be done differently. We have to build coherently, and we think the best thing is to create a separate project company for this. I don't think we have much time to lose on strengthening today's rail network, and we don't have time to lose on the development of new projects. We will therefore also turn the Railway Agency and the State Road Administration into state companies or companies to undergo the necessary reorganisation. The aim is to reduce the planning time and speed up the launch and implementation of projects, both new projects and the improvement and reinforcement of existing ones. We will also follow in our budgets the upgrade of single sections. This is particularly true of Gjøvikbanen and Kongsvingerbahnen, and in Akershus we are particularly concerned about Fornebubanen, the A-husbahnen and the construction of the E18 West Corridor with collective fields.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e3330	Let me begin by expressing some pride – pride in being a member of a party that is now in the government for the first time. Now, after eight years with a red-green majority, Norway has received a government that will create a simpler everyday life for most people, and that understands that values must be created before they can be shared. I have been representing the Advance Party for many years, and when the Advance Party entered the government, it was undoubtedly a highlight. Everyone who has worked in the private sector knows that there is a difference between money for consumption and money for investment. Finally, we have received a government that will facilitate a greater share of the oil fund's return on investment in road, rail and other transport infrastructure. The policies that have been pursued so far have not been optimal. We know that well in Westfold that I come from. E18 through Vestfold could have been completed in five years, but instead, it takes 24 years on the route and 7 billion. kr more than necessary. The distance is divided into ten parcels in our small state, and it goes without saying that you can't continue this way. Customs is a very important area in which Norway has unfortunately been in the wrong direction for many years. The new government will have a new course and raise borders for duty-free imports, simplify customs treatment, reduce customs barriers and pursue a new foreign policy that contributes to free world trade. We must never forget that Norway, as a small and export-oriented country, is one of the countries that enjoys the fact that people can trade with each other across borders. Norway became a rich country, among others. because in the 1800s we were allowed to export fish and timber, and because young Norwegian men were employed in international trade and export in the shipping industry. Now other countries are exporting out of poverty, for example. Latin American and Asian countries. Therefore, the new government will contribute and improve mechanisms to improve access to Norwegian markets for developing countries. Yes, it will take time to clean up at strange customs rates and to reduce other barriers to trade, but at least the new government has a clear vision of which direction to go, and this is made clear by the government statement. In addition to helping other countries through lower customs duties and increased international free trade, the new government will establish an investment programme within the oil fund to invest in sustainable enterprises and projects in poor countries. There is no doubt that the new government is historic. I'm incredibly proud and humble in being part of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e3347	For eight years, the red-green government has been working for community, value creation and justice. One has ensured order in the economy, low unemployment and high employment. During the same period, we have seen economic instability, social unrest and very high unemployment rates in other European countries. Now there's a blue-blue government that's going to move on. What is certain is that they will take over a country in good condition. Since 2005, there have been 340 000 new jobs in this country – two thirds in the private sector. The red-green government has led an active business policy and has the bet where we are good. We have delivered a yard package and a forest package, and we have delivered them on simplification. One example here is an accountant's duty. I see that the blue-blue government will pass on the simplification project. This is positive, but why should a new bureaucratic rule board be created by model from Sweden? Sweden has achieved simplification for 6.8 billion. kr in six years, while the red-green government has reached 5 billion. NOK 2 in 2 years. There are many points in the platform that are positive and that we are some about – e.g. that the government is to take action with a view to giving more people the choice of non-traditional education and careers in order to contribute to a less gender-based working life. For me who's been working on this for many years, it's very positive. I look forward to that work and will contribute good ideas and suggestions. But then I have to say that I'm a little crazy, all the time that our new Minister for Gender Equality, Solvency Horne, has been against every time we've debated this here in Stortinget. It is really serious that the new government will extend the reservation right for gypsies to show abortion. I hear today that they say this shouldn't happen to young girls, because they can only go to another doctor. But actually, there are some settlements where there is only one doctor. How did they intend to solve it there? The government should answer that, preferably they should make sure that this is not done. This year we celebrate 100 years for women's voting rights. For 100 years we have taken steps for a more equal society. Then it is sad that those who have been given government power will take a step back in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e3360	Any organisation is always measured on the weakest joint. We live in a country with a good health care system in relation to many other countries, although not everything is good enough. This healthcare service I have been working for many years. That's why I think it's a little neat that I've got a number. 113 on Stortinget. We have the opportunity to process and save more and more. Nevertheless, there are some groups of people who need our health care in particular. They don't have demonstrators on the outside of our house, the Storting, they don't have any other places to protest either, they don't have any blue lights on for them, they don't have any uniformed people fighting their fights, the russian and psychiatric patients. Many thousands are on lists to get our help. Every Christmas night for many years I bathed many of these, but I had no place to send them afterwards. These people deserve our focus, more treatment places, a seamless – not sleepless – healthcare from the municipalities where everyone lives, to the specialist health service, from lowthreshold services to specialised help. I'm very grateful that the Prime Minister in his government statement talks about a safety net, talking about the will and ability to bet that we want to move these patient groups further forward. But this is also linked to other policies, it is related to the alcohol policy that we will continue to pursue and that is important for the Christian People's Party. The Prime Minister said that they would cover tables further to those who labor the most. The Christian People's Party fully agrees. We want to get a escalating plan on the ground. We also proposed this in the previous period. The Christian People's Party knows that there is a lot of expertise out there among non-profit organisations that can remedy and that have the skills to address the capacity problem that is actually. These are organisations that lost their rights when the bidding process was at its worst, such as the Base Centre of the Sandnes or Blue Cross and the Salvation Army. The Christian People's Party believes in resurrection, and we believe that it is possible with resurrection also for these organizations. But I think maybe it's a bad idea to ask the government about it after three days, but use the ideal organizations in health care for mental health and drug abuse.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e3371	The Workers' Party will build the country by continuing the historical culture of the Red-Green Government. It is now granted 14.4 billion. kr more annually on the road and track than when the red-green government took over in 2005. It actually means an increase of 64 pst. in these years. Today's transport rate is possible because we've kept the economy in order and prioritised transport over tax cuts. In adopted National Transport Plan 2014-2023, the new ambitious step is for better roads, railways, ports and fairways. National Transport Plan 2014-2023 contains an increased framework of more than 150 billion. kr, or 50 pst. increase. For the next ten years, a total of 508 billion will be used. State crowns of carriage. There will be a massive investment in simpler, faster and safer transport across the country. I'm counting on this bet to stand firm, at least if we base what's in the government's new platform in this area. In addition, I noticed that today’s Minister for Transport Solvik-Olsen said that they would even implement it faster and cheaper. But there are some areas that concern me: E6 in Helgeland is now ready to be built. The question is whether it gets with or without a bomb. E6 in Helgeland is ready for significant expansion in the next few years, but here both the Progress Party and the Right have said that they will look at an expansion without tolls. What is important then is that this does not stop progress, which can happen quickly. So to the new way of building a road, OPS. There the government on its platform says that they will organise major road and rail development with OPS. But they say that there should be an implementation strategy, and then the question is: is it just an implementation strategy, or is it also to be used as a method of financing? Here I think the government is unclear. Then to the railway. The Right Party and the Progressive Party want a major reform in the rail sector. The Labour Party believes that this is a bad proposal. We want to further develop the railway on the basis of today's organisation, because we think we'll get the most railway back for the money. The Right Party and the Progress Party even want to put off the track. Passenger train services in Norway are not suitable for privatisation. Due to population figures, the market base of some of these sections is sluggish and competitive outsourcing can lead to reduced train provision on unprofitable districts. I'm genuinely concerned about the North Norwegian Railway. So finally, in the platform they say that they will facilitate private ownership in the business of North Norway. Then I ask myself, do we not have private business in North Norway today, or what do they really mean by what is in the statement?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e3388	It is great that the opposition is so impatient to get concrete results, which they themselves have not delivered. One of the areas is health. Health concerns us all, whether it concerns our own disease when we get it, or when some of our closest ones get sick. Then we depend on a well-functioning health care system. I am therefore very pleased that the Prime Minister stressed in the Declaration of Accession that one of the important areas of government’s commitment is to implement a welfare promise for the elderly and the sick. Many people today wait unnecessarily long for investigation and treatment or get too poor care services in their municipality. If you wait a long time for treatment, disease can get worse and at worst end up with death in a hospital queue. Many long-term people are also sick and fall out of work. This creates insecurity and leads to unnecessary suffering for the individual and also the family. It is important that we have confidence in the public health system. The government will therefore assume greater responsibility for a faster expansion of the elderly care capacity. Care for the elderly and caregivers needs to be further developed and quality improvement in the supply is an important objective. The last years of life must have a meaningful content also for the elderly affected by dementia or other disorders. In the government platform, it is stated that one will promote a national health and hospital plan. Such a plan will create transparency and, in particular, predictability in the health sector. It shall contain definitions of different types of hospitals and the structure of the specialist health service and shall include needs-monitoring of investment plans and equipment needs. Until the plan has been discussed, the government has decided not to reduce emergency and food supply that is not justified by patient safety and quality. It is gratifying that the government aims to reduce the queues in health care and to give patients more freedom of choice. The government will introduce free treatment choices into the healthcare system. The scheme should first be tested in the field of mental health protection and drug use. Furthermore, the government will increase the purchase of private health services. The aim is precisely to reduce treatment queues, wait time and strengthen the patient’s freedom of choice. So the government will put the patient in the center and not the system. Much is good in the Norwegian welfare community. Most of us get the help we need. Nevertheless, there are groups that are not well enough caught up in our social security network. Patients with drug dependence or mental health challenges have been at the bottom of the table for too many years. You need to get a better offer. It is therefore gratifying that the patient is now placed in the centre, and in changing and developing healthcare services, the caregiver needs to meet an auxiliaries who work with them about the patient.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e3407	Housing, together with education, health and working life, is one of the four pillars of welfare policy. They form the basis for all people to have the freedom and the ability to create a good life. Therefore, it is an important political task for the Workers' Party to facilitate the construction of more and better housing. In recent years, the red-green government has increased housing support, granted start-up loans to more young people and others who are struggling on the housing market, and the loan framework to the House Bank has increased repeatedly, and several municipal dwellings are being built. But we still have challenges related to high housing prices and lack of housing. For the Workers' Party, challenges cannot be solved by the market alone – we need an active policy. Then to the government statement. Let me first say that it is positive that the new government wants to continue the red-green initiative and work to simplify the construction process. That's good, and I look forward to cooperation in an important field. Then I record that the blue-blues have watered out the ambitions of the residential area since the election campaign. One week before the elections, all the bourgeois parties stood up outside the Stortinget with an overall demand to reduce bank equity requirements. It was one of the most concrete promises to youth from the bourgeois parties. Then came the election, and the promise disappeared in the blue. State Council Sanner, after the election, stated with great clarity that the government would not over-examine the Financial Supervisory Authority. But if this is so obvious, why on earth did you promise the voters something completely different in the election campaign? I find that the construction industry in its press release after the elections was right when they wrote that this is a «Failure by a Member State to fulfil obligations before accession». But let's hope there's a little bit more implementation in student housing. I am proud that the red-green government straightened up in the right-hand student residence cabin and started a massive investment in student housing when we took over in 2005. Next year, we're proposing 1 400 new student homes. For the Workers' Party, the ambition is that we're going up to 3,000 a year. It is important for the country’s students, but it is also an important contribution to ease the pressure on the housing market. I record that the right-hand side's promise of 2,000 new student homes this year has been reduced to a promise of several student homes in the declaration. I'm a little bit unsure of what's more than, but we're looking forward to the concreteization. So I choose to be optimistic. I look forward with great anticipation to the new government's draft budget. The Labour Party shall be impatient on behalf of its students – they deserve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e3427	As has been said by several in this debate today, the outcome of the election is a historically large civil plurality which has also led the party of progress into the government offices, and despite a small media storm around some of the state councils on the basis of previous statements in opposition, it is likely that in the future these state councils will prove to be both effective and forward-looking. This stands in contrast to the red-green government, which put its hands in many cases, even when it concerns the clearing of trasé elections for the ferry-free E39 in Sogn and Fjordane and Møre and Romsdal, such as fjord crossings in Nordfjord, over the Sulafjord, the Romsdalsfjord and the Halsafjord – despite the broad political unity of the following trasés: Inner trasé under the Development Mountain via Stryn and further into the Kvivsvegen against Volda, concept K10, Hafast, Hareid mainland connection from Hareid towards Ålesund, concept K3, Møreaksen, underwater tunnel under the Romsdalsfjord via Tautra towards Molde, concept K3, Halsafjorden, floating bridge, or K2, which is a subsea tunnel. It's been more than a year since we were promised a clarification from the ministry, and the paralysis of action has led to a new government. I feel confident that it will be better handled now, when it comes to spending time on further planning, not waiting for a decision that never comes. So some words about renewable bet. As most people know, a single certificate market exists between Norway and Sweden to provide more renewable clean power generation. This economic stimulus to new, good energy projects is really speeding up the expansion of our neighbouring country. All seven terrrawtts are given the word there, while here in the country we have the power to put about a tenth. This is really serious, and we risk Norwegian power consumers paying for Swedish power development, while our developers find their applications again in an endless red tape queue. This is not good enough and needs to be corrected as well as possible, so that we also get our renewable part, if we are to be on the world top with Iceland. So in the end, when I listen to SV's Snorre Cerigstad Valen's posts, with a hustle and bustle over the election winners' solutions, he gives a face to the opinions: Most people don't know their own best, give me a new people – probably in hopes of a better uprising.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e3441	These are historic days for us who are representatives of the Progress Party. For the first time, we are going to discuss a government statement with the Progress Party as one of the governing parties. I see that there are already high expectations for the new government in many areas – including this room. I am pleased – not least we have high demands and high expectations for this government. One of the things that pleases me most about the statement is the government's great commitment to knowledge. A better school with better teachers is essential for us to get the wisest heads and to give all students an opportunity to be as good as they can be at all. The teacher is the single factor that matters most to students' learning. We also know that what has the greatest and best effect in getting good teachers is continuing training. A stepping up of this action — and especially for math teachers — is very positive and joyous. Much has improved in Norwegian school, but a lot can be much better. A group of students who are often forgotten in the social debate — or which is at least not mentioned — are professionals and vocational training. Both enterprises and the public sector will in the future have a major need for skilled workers in vocational and vocational training. The status of these must be raised. We also know that among these students, there are almost 50 psts. ‘drop-out’. Two of the most important measures to tackle this, which the government has also said they will be working on, are to strengthen the professional community and to strengthen the opportunities for professional life to switch between school and business training. It's like a long red thread goes through Norway's history in terms of what we've been feeding on, and how we've been able to make use of this – from the Viking ships that let us go out and experience and discover the world, to the classic fisheries, to mineral extraction and mining, and now to oil and gas business and fish farming. Of course, the common denominator for these is natural resources, but even more important is knowledge – knowledge to take advantage of the advantages we have. Many people in the social debate see and think a lot about what we're going to live on after the oil age. In my view, as a nation, we shall live by the same things that we have done in the last hundred years: knowledge. However, competition has increased. The globalised world places even greater demands and standards on the goods and services we produce, not least making price and cost levels crucial to being the best equipped for the future. We're going to be with this government. The knowledge society shall be realised.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e3454	This representative has now moved from the Labour and Social Committee to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy. It is quickly confirmed that there are many challenges in the world and in Europe that do not know national borders. Climate is one such challenge, young people falling outside are another, poverty reduction is a third. It sings in glass houses in Stortinget today when the Workers' Party criticises the government platform for not having climate as one of its eight special bet areas. For the new government, climate challenges are so important that this area is part of the government’s value base. In 2005, as State Secretary at the Bondevik II government, I attended a climate and environmental conference in Buenos Aires. It made a pretty big impression on me at the time to hear a representative from the Pacific Island of Kiribati appealing to the world community for help to stop the development that would lead these most low-lying islands in relation to the sea surface to get under the sea surface. On Monday 21 October, the newspaper reports about the man from Kiribati who is applying for refugee status because of climate change. The sea level destroys his drinking water. Representatives from the government of Stoltenberg have probably also met these islanders from the small Pacific islands during the eight years they have run Norwegian climate policy. Nevertheless, the four bourgeois parties that form the basis of the Right-Fremskritsparte government had to reinforce the climate announcement that came to the Norwegian upturn in the last downturn, a climate settlement that the new government will now further reinforce. This makes me think of the rhetorical question that Mr Hansson of the Greens said earlier in today's debate: 'If we don't, who in the world will do that?' That's why I have to do a different reflection on some of the same template, as I now bring forward the other cross-border challenges that I mentioned at the outset, namely young people who fall outside. Why, I ask, did not the red-green government ask itself this question over these eight years that have passed: if we don't, who would do it? In Greece it is about 60 pst. by young people who are now out of work. Fortunately, in Norway this figure is lower, but according to the SSB as of January 2013, 38 000 young people in Norway are unemployed, which was an increase of 8 000 young people from January 2012. In other words, development went in the wrong direction under the red-green government. In the wrong direction, the figures for the number of people with disabilities in the workplace also went. About 80,000 people with disabilities but who are willing to work are out of work. Also that number has grown under the outgoing government. Did they ever ask themselves the question, faith? For the red-green government, it did not; it did not abolish child poverty with a pen stroke, and it did not ensure that more disabled people got a job. The Norwegian people in elections did not agree that the arrows pointed in the right direction under the government of Stoltenberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e3484	This year's grand election gave a historically strong majority for the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Advance Party and the Right. The voters gave a clear signal that they wanted new solutions to the challenges we are facing. The basic challenge is to raise knowledge in school. The creative researcher starts his career at high school by meeting challenges in his everyday school life. That's why it's so important to have teachers with a high level of competence. Students and teachers will develop their creativity in school everyday life. The government wants to invest in the continuing training of teachers because good teachers are the guarantor of good learning venues, which will also benefit the Eastfold schools. It is important to build bridges between higher education and primary schools. Research days at the University of Eastfold are an important meeting place to increase interest in real science and health and social sciences. It is necessary to anchor research in the everyday lives of individuals. It should be knowledge, skills and effort to determine, not who your parents are, or where you come from. And we're going to work together to make every human being succeed. Some children have bigger challenges than others. Some are under the care of child protection. Children have clear rights enshrined in the Children’s Convention. Everyone needs a family relationship or to be part of a community. As a society, it's our job to give all children the best possible growth conditions. It is therefore important for the government to strengthen the competence and organisation of child protection. But we also have an international obligation – for those children who are not growing up in Norway and who are subjected to serious violations. Therefore, there should be a greater demand for aid to promote human rights in the recipient countries. In particular, access to education for girls should be encouraged.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e3499	The new government has high ambitions for the school, and I'm glad. We depend on the quality of Norwegian school. We're on the right track, and we score better on international rankings now than we did a few years ago. Knowledge and learning are the most important key words for the school, and so it must be. I would nevertheless warn against a too one-sided focus. There are also other aspects of school that are important, and we have some challenges in school today that we need to prioritise. We know that almost 7 pst. all students experience bullying. So bullying in everyday life is a problem for approx. 40,000 children. As politicians, we must take this seriously. Much is done to prevent bullying in school, but the number of bullying victims remains relatively stable. It's possible to do something about it. When the Christian People's Party was last in government, the fight against bullying was an important field of action, and it produced results. In the period 2001-2005, bullying was reduced by 30 pst. I hope that the Minister of Knowledge will be inspired by what was done that time. In order to succeed, we need to continue the prevention work, to strengthen the health care service and to function as a social teacher, and to increase the teacher's density, so as to make it easier for teachers to get time for each student. In parallel with the prevention work, we also need to find solutions for those who today experience bullying. Psychologists Atle Tieregrov and Thormod Idsøe struck this week's alarm through a chronicle in the VG where they claim that it is done too little for these children. I record that the government will be in favour of a practice in which the children who bully have to change school. It might immediately sound both fair and reasonable, but I think it's a little bit too simple. We must not forget that bullies are also often children who experience different problems and challenges in their lives. We also need to take care of these children in the best possible way. This is primarily meant to be a compliment of the government's commitment to the school, but at the same time I want to express some concern that the government has some one-sided focus on knowledge. I hope that the Minister of Knowledge will take this as an invitation to prove that government is not only concerned with increasing students' knowledge, but also with creating a better learning environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e3512	Traffic on our roads has increased significantly over recent years. This applies both to normal car traffic and to commercial traffic. A large part of the increase in commercial traffic is large high-tongage vehicle combinations, and there is a lot of cargo gradually transferred from track to road, thus charging the road network instead of continuing on track. The substantial part of the road network in Norway is not built for the congestion we have, nor for the tonnage transported by today’s wagon trains. This, in turn, leads to severe wear on the road network, a negative impact on the environment and a negative safety aspect. Unfortunately, the upgrading and expansion of the road network has not been carried out in line with changes in traffic needs, and there is therefore a large lag in both maintenance and standard on the Norwegian road network. A much greater share of the payload in Norway should now be shifted from the road network to maritime transport, so that the sea is once again taking a greater share of the useful transport. Government alerts as an important field of activity a more modern infrastructure, including road, rail and public transport. Furthermore, the government will stimulate more freight traffic on short sea shipping. This is welcome. In order to achieve the objective of transferring goods from land to sea, there will be a need for some key measures, including upgrading our ports to serve a significantly larger number of calls to berth than today. This will apply to backyards, berthfronts and cargo handling devices, further immersion of dangerous points in the fairways and ports, and construction and upgrading of access routes to ports in order to obtain the best possible logistics for traffic to and from the port locally. Other measures are to help create a framework for the competitiveness of the shipping industry, as an incentive to invest in the acquisition of the right type and modern ships, and to see trade in context more than in the past. The government has already done a good job, including: by transferring the activities of the Coastal Agency from the former Ministry of Fisheries to the Ministry of Transport. This helps to see the development and upgrading of road, rail and sea in a wider context than before, and can better plan the overall infrastructure so that the resources used in these sectors can be optimally used in terms of efficient and environmentally sound infrastructure. With the Declaration of Accession of the Government of Solberg, there is good reason to assume that the Norwegian infrastructure will bring our country up as badly as it needs to be a competitive nation in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e3525	When the red-green government took over power in 2005, it came to the table and covered, the arrows pointed upwards, and the foundation was laid for a solid growth. Now that we are experiencing a new government change, I have so much understanding that the parties behind the outgoing government want to produce the situation in the Norwegian economy and Norwegian working life in the best possible way. Unfortunately, the situation is that we record an increase in unemployment and low investment in the mainland industry. According to the NHO Chief Kristin Forest Lund's statements to the Nations on 22 August this year, we have to go back to 1970 to find such a low level of investment in mainland Norway as the level we have today. This is a serious situation. Investments say something about belief in the future, growth potential and optimism. The absence of investment in the mainland industry shows the opposite, and this needs to be changed in order to secure jobs and ensure the well-being of Norway. Unemployment is rising sharply. The last labour force survey of July this year shows that unemployment rose from 3.3 p.m. of the labour force to 3,6 pst. And this is far more than what was expected in advance. Unfortunately, Norway has reduced its competitiveness over this eight-year period and has experienced a fall in productivity growth. If we are to believe Vice-Chancellor Steinar Juel in Nordea, Norway has never had as much deterioration in competitiveness as in the years since 2005. I am therefore pleased that the new government has so clearly stated that one of the eight cross-political areas is to strengthen the competitiveness of Norwegian jobs. This is not a small task. Among other things, the hourly wage costs in industry are high and have increased from 20 pst. over the average of our trading partners in the EU to close to 70 pst. over. Compared to the level in Sweden and Denmark, Norwegian hourly labour costs are between 30 and 40 pst. higher, while 50-70 pst. higher than in France and Germany and two and a half times higher than in the United Kingdom. We have a high wage level, and if we are to be competitive in a globalised world, we need to be more productive, more innovative and more creative than our competitors. The new government will increase the competitiveness of business in mainland Norway. We want more safe jobs to be created throughout the country. Work is the basis for well-being both for us as individuals and for our welfare society. I am pleased that the government will invest more in research and establish more world-leading university environments and have the objective that Norway should be among the most innovative countries in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e3542	What we've heard for eight years now, is a government that has promised money, a government that has then boasted of how much money has been spent, a government that has had money use in itself as a target more than a means. As politicians, we've all probably been in the situation that we've clinged to what I think might be the cheapest argument in the rhetorical book, that's the argument that we've never in history spent more money on it or that. That's a weak argument, because it doesn't say anything about the results. It's a weak argument, because it's misleading the voters to think that this makes things better when you spend more money. But not least, it is a bad argument because it is an easy way for politicians to run away from their responsibilities. A field that perhaps illustrates this point more than anything else is the field of justice, more specifically the police. So despite basic system failure this year after year, medicine has been more money, more money, more money. The number of funds allocated to the police has increased markedly, while the level of investigation and clarification has been at rest on the ground. The directorate/level of proceedings has increased, but the confidence of the police has declined. Let one thing be clear: the police don't just need money, they need better management. Fortunately, Norway has now received a government that cannot and will not hide behind a fall of increased public expenditure. They can't, because in the long run, the will to tax people could never exceed the opposition on the left-hand side of this room. Neither will they, because this government is talking primarily about results, not money. Results are what they promise, results are what they will be judged by.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e3553	Several today have commented on the government platform – and the need and goal of a local reform that the government parties, the Right and the Advance Party, but also the Christian People's Party and the Left agree on. As former rapporteur in the municipality of Sund in Hordaland, I have worked for a society with vitality to connect the inhabitants more closely. Family, school, sports, work and other communities are important arenas to create this vital force. The exposure was great both for me and for other local politicians when we started working with a new municipal plan to create this vitality. The aim was that our municipality should provide good public services, and the region should appear as the most attractive region to provide good services and to live in and not least establish industry. The challenges at the discretion of the State did not last long. With a lot of objections, this became very, very demanding. There was a sense of renunciation in me as rapporteur, but also among the local government representatives. As rapporteur, I experienced an unfortunate practice of the complaint system, the supervisory system and, as I have just mentioned, the possibility of objecting, eagerly used by the county office and the county municipality. My experience as rapporteur in general and in this municipal planning process makes me absolutely convinced that we need a community reform. The inhabitants of our beautiful country deserve an active local democracy, a competent professional environment with interesting tasks and responsibilities. This provides robust and sustainable municipalities, with good professional competence in all disciplines. The recruitment of experienced case handlers was demanding in many disciplines. Especially in the field of child protection, but also in other disciplines, I experienced this. Professional environments were too small for a large number of applicants, so the services in my municipality were not at such a level as both the state and the citizens expect in today's society. Municipalities-Norway are led by a popularly elected level and can govern and take legal decisions, but we see today a practice in which the state and the county council exercise discretion and review municipal decisions. The real autonomy needs to be strengthened, and in this context it is natural to think that the municipality is given greater responsibility and that the state is given less responsibility. In my view, the state overarching of the municipalities must be reduced to a minimum. To achieve this, we need sufficient skills and larger municipalities. It was very fun today to hear from the local government minister Jan Tore Sanner and Helge André Njåstad. I'm absolutely sure that this process is going to be well managed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e3572	Many representatives from different parties have quoted Johan Sverdrup from this pulpit today and have found that all power is now assembled in this Chamber. My reaction is that it's high time. For eight years, more and more decisions have been taken in closed spaces without the public being able to follow the debates, discussions and arguments. Many suggest that we now have a much more vital increase, where decision-making processes are much more open, and the media, local politicians and voters are made visible who have what position on issues that come to be dealt with, and are given the arguments for why the parties believe what they think. In addition, the elected representatives in this room are also given the opportunity to influence policy to a much greater extent than before. That's good. This is the way a parliament should work. There are, of course, several reasons for this change, firstly the parliamentary situation with a minority government, which must seek majority voting in the Grand Duchy with one or more parties. At the same time, the government has also made it clear that, independently of this, the Storting will be met with much greater respect and that the discussions and consultations of the Committees in many cases will lead to real changes in the policy pursued. This is stated both in the Declaration of Government, in the Cooperation Agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, and by the Prime Minister from this pulpit. This is in stark contrast to the past. At times, it has appeared that the departed red-green government has been most concerned with defending each dot and every comma at any cost to prove its own excellence. Norway is an open country in many ways. For example, almost anyone can follow the debates in Stortinget from the gallery. At the same time, this transparency becomes quite meaningless if the debates in the Storting become only skin-debates. I'm glad that this is now changing, and that we are now seeing a revitalized magnification that works for the good solutions regardless of which batch needle proposers have on the coat.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e3583	There is nothing in this world that can be taken for granted. This applies both to individuals and to countries. Nothing has come free of charge for Norway — not our well-being, not our well-being. It's a result of the firework and hardworking people all over the country. We've got it together through joint efforts. There are no parties on the Storing that want to rage our communities, but there are parties that want to expand them, which believe that communities need to grow, so that we can use all the good forces to further develop the well-being, for example. on the grid. There are no parties on the Storting that want to rage or downgrade welfare. Our welfare state is not a line of conflict in Norwegian policy. But there are parties that want to ensure the sustainability of well-being, which are committed to preserving the welfare state for the future. We've got a government that thinks for more than four years at a time, a government that has a generation perspective on its policy. I don't believe in utopias. The perfect, fully developed society does not exist, and a path to perfection is never farable. I think a society can always be adjusted, turned on and improved. Despite good welfare systems, there are still people who do not get the help they need and who experience great difficulties in Norway. Our well-being, our safety net, must be stronger than it is today. That's why we're going to close holes in the security network for people who fall outside. Together, we need to improve measures for children growing up in poor families, and we need to ensure training for adults who lack basic skills. This is how we create a Norway that provides opportunities for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e3596	We need more resources for community action. Break-up is painful for all those involved, not least this child. For the Christian People's Party, this is about doing more on the prevention side. In very many areas, we experience that the focus and effort are on repairing when the damage has occurred. We should continue to be concerned about this, but we believe that with a reinforced effort in the prevention area, we can reduce the risk of a break in life, but also strengthen the possibility of good parental cooperation after a break. We have received a lot of evidence of experience with different courses in the field of living. Strengthening the relationship skills in relationships prevents many social problems, for example: violence, intoxication and mental illness. I would like to highlight in particular the very positive experiences of the course plan Level – a comprehensive, locally anchored concept of life course that offers couples in different stages of life, from high school students to families with special needs. The professional environment commends the preventive measures taken by this scheme. The human and economic benefits of this are very well documented. Transport is an important field of activity for the Christian People's Party. Prosperity, accessibility, road safety and the environment shall be used as a basis for policy. But transport is also about value creation, district policy and quality of life. We have a business life in the Lister region and in Agder calling for a better infrastructure. A more developed transport network can link districts and urban centres, improve living conditions with a wider range of jobs. For the South, infrastructure efforts are aimed at facilitating policies that can improve the framework conditions for established industries and facilitate the creation of new skills jobs. It's about taking action to counter the strong centralisation trends. Therefore, the extension of E18 and E39 to a four-field motorway becomes important bets together with a connection of the Sørlandsbanen and Vestfoldbanen. For the Christian People's Party, it will be a priority task to contribute to infrastructure efforts that can be a central tool in re-establishing faith in a viable district Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e3614	Prime Minister Solberg is ambitious on behalf of Norway. It's supposed to be a prime minister. Ambitions require implementation. We know that if we are to ensure the competitiveness of Norway in the future, we must pursue a long-term policy with a generation perspective. This is not least when we're going to realize Knowledge Norway. We have reason to be grateful for the wealth the oil sector has brought us. At the same time, it's a big cross of thought that our economy is more oil-dependent than ever after eight years of red-green rule. We need a shift in the rate of investment in other industries and businesses. If we are to succeed in tomorrow's society, we need a significantly stronger commitment to competence and knowledge development both in primary, secondary and not least in higher education. In today's edition of the regional newspaper Fädrelandsvennen, Helge Ødegård Hovland, a student and apprentice representative in the Western Agder County Municipality, reports that it costs society as much as 12 million. DKK when a person drops out of school and has to go on social security schemes throughout his professional career. It's expensive when we know that the drop-off is close to 30 pst. – not to talk about what it does to the self-esteem of young people who fall out of school and work. Here we have a great responsibility to ensure that more implements. It gives identity, master experience and the ability to take responsibility for your life. If we're to succeed in this, it requires flexibility in the training course and more focus on the individual than on the system. If we are to ensure Norwegian competitiveness in the future, we also need a knowledge and competence policy for the future. Our willingness to invest in higher education and research is crucial. Where we cannot compete for the price of labour, we must compete for skills and technology. Therefore, in the government parties, we believe that the university and higher education sectors will play an increasingly important role in educating students with a high level of competence in both the public and private sectors. Therefore, funding, structure and quality of higher education will be very important areas of activity for the forthcoming major period. Together with increased efforts in the research sector, it will be essential to ensure our value creation in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e3625	I am enlisting this country's leading spokesperson earlier today. It was a pleasant experience, and I choose to do it once more, this time to respond to the representative Serigstad Valen’s posts – since he did not use his posts to respond to my comments. That is, he addressed and mentioned it, but he did not ask any questions about any of the facts I presented. He also did not present his own solutions on behalf of his party. On the other hand, he asked my left and my motivation to want to change the Working Environment Act, in order to want to create a more flexible working life – where, as I say from this chair, the motivation is not to create a more resilient welfare state, but to make things worse and weaken the rights of ordinary workers. I thought that the representative Serigstad Valen, who I see has signed up for a new post, could try to refute some of the facts I am concerned about. When I say last year we were 4.5 in pre-employment per pensioner, and that we want to be 2.5 in 2060, it's not numbers left over. There are numbers coming from the perspective message, from the red-green government, from SV. When I say that we have a part-time adjusted employment in Norway at 61 pst, it's not a number that I can figure out, it's a number that comes from the OECD. Such figures should encourage constructiveness; it should encourage a caretaker to work more and to increase the number of people entering the labour market. I can hardly see any other solution, unless SV wants to cut public expenditure. I suspect that is not the case. SV should also – more than others – know that the 135 billion. kr that they propose this year to spend on the state budget of oil money, will not be there forever. This I think to a greater extent is a generational question than a party political question. I hope that me and the representative Serigstad Valen, who seems to belong to the same generation, at least when it comes to age, take these challenges together. In conclusion, I would like to say that when SV and the representative Serigstad Valen talk about the Left's proposal to amend the Working Environment Act will lead to a shift of power from the employees and up to the employers, I respond to that presentation. When we suggest that a worker who chooses to take a little time off in the afternoon to be with their children on leisure activities in the afternoon and evening, then maybe to respond to e-mail after nine o'clock, not to be a lawbreaker, it's not to move power up, it's to move power down – where it belongs at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e3638	It is with humility and joy I stand on the pulpit today, for the first time in position, yes, for the first time in government. It actually feels quite different when I know that it is the Right Party and the Advance Party that have the hand on the wheel, with the support of the Christian People's Party and the Left – yes, not only differently, it feels safer. The last thing we did in the Transport Committee in the previous period was to adopt the upcoming NTP that will apply from 2014. Then they boasted red-green that they had overfilled the previous NTP. Yes, they were very ardent about it because they probably somehow believed what they said. But they didn't realize they were wrong. In dollars and cents, the red-green government probably fulfilled the old plan, but not in projects. Many of the projects listed in the old NTP were not even started because cost increases or price increases were not taken into account when the plans were made. If I am promised a car and I will get it in three years, but only get the money that the car cost the day the promises came, I will not get a car. That's what I call a breach of promise. Not enough money, no car. Not enough money, no NTP met – therefore the old NTP was not overfilled, it was not even met. One would think that the old government had taken this into account when they came up with the new plan, but then one. Not even in the early years of their NTP and in their own state budget, they were able to follow up the NTP they themselves have been adopting, with enough money. In several areas, there are gaps. On the way there are almost 4 psts missing. in order to meet the plan. For 2014 only 21,1 pst. of the total for the next four years, and it's not much to be proud of. One of the favourite expressions of the former red-green government was that everything was to be phased in, but then we knew that there would not be enough money for the promised projects. As I said earlier, I am very pleased that we have a new government – a government that has promised to bet on transportation, and that will do something about it. We want to work differently, smarter and get more out of each of the heads, so that it becomes more and more path. Safe, good roads and good collective solutions for the most people are things we work with, striving against and with which we will succeed. Why? Yes, because the Norwegian people deserve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e3657	It is entirely in place to discuss the future of the welfare state. I am very pleased that much of this debate is about it; it has the representative Rotevatn quite right in it. It's not the facts he presents, which is the problem, that's what he uses them for and concludes with. First of all, it's going to be wrong when you do what many people on the right do, and I'm going to count the left in there, and that's just looking at the public sector as a cost. Children's playgrounds, e.g. is not just an expense. It's the opposite of an investment. This allows more people to work. It's something society serves. Similarly, high wages and taxes are not a burden on a society; on the contrary, it is a sign that the distribution works, that the welfare state works, and it is linked to high productivity. Similarly, not all jobs or permanent jobs or strict work environment laws are a problem in a society. It ensures the opposite of security in people's everyday lives and makes it possible to take chances you wouldn't be able to take into a much more deregulated system. With the logic of Rotevatten, unemployment would be high and employment low in such a regulated country as Norway, since deregulation of our Community schemes is what should ensure the sustainability of the welfare state. But it's not like that. It's the other way around. Secondly, when the answer to the question of the welfare state is sustainable, it is always yes, it is, only we weaken it a little – especially when we know that the private purchasing power in Norway is almost going to double by 2050. Those who take my concerns into consideration when they talk about the welfare state's future, don't dare. And when you promise huge treasures to a strong elite, as the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have done, it goes without saying that you have to cut a place or get people to work more. But don't come and say it's to preserve the community. It is fully possible to maintain the welfare level in Norway if we want to prioritise it. That there is a conflict between the majority of Storting's policy and the welfare state's basis is not something I think of. The thing is that the party leader of Rotevatn, who says she's getting sick of listening to LO, has used her power in Parliament to establish a government of the Right, whose parliamentarians are sorry for a week with feedback from the voters, and the Progress Party, which until recently was against collective wage formation at all. Then it can't be any surprise that mine and others on the left side's expectations of a listening government that is ringing the welfare state are not on top. For social policies, no matter how many times you say the words ‘welfare’ or ‘negotiated platform’ are equally usocial.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e3670	We are sometimes witnessing a rather strange debate here in the house. It seems that the opposition has not quite found its role, and that it is sometimes difficult to tolerate the election result, which was simply: the voters gave the bourgeois a historically high majority, and thus they placed the red-green in opposition. The opposition uses the debate alternately to shout out about countless violations of promises committed by the government during the last five to six days, and then at the next moment to point out that they themselves in position, just before the elections, actually considered starting work on much of what the bourgeois felt was necessary. When the representative, Tove Karoline Knutsen, warns that the red-greens have started to bring down the health queue, it contrasts with her later opinion that there is no free capacity in the health sector. No one is going around kicking pebbles, claims the representative. No, the last thing she's probably right in, without it having any significance for this matter. They do not fire pebbles, they are active in a public service sector. They just don't get the very best in themselves. Therefore, it is important for the government that we use diversity as a tool to make the quality of services more visible. Therefore, the private sector is important. You can sometimes get the impression that being in a condition of health is a social democratic virtue, that it's like ‘taking one’ for the nation if you're in a condition of health. It's completely wrong. It is important to bring down health cows, and by getting people through treatment, by getting people through rehabilitation and out into work, you get the opportunity to provide for the community. The Community is also a concept which should be addressed in this debate. When Snorre Valen attacks the cash support and private schools as a danger to the Community idea, he is far right in it, but that's because he has a very narrow definition of what is common. And that definition actually didn't hit the voters at the last election. When a family is to have the right to choose the form of growth for its children, it is also because we regard the family as a community on the civil side. When we think that it may be positive that a family can choose alternative education for their children, it is in the certainty that their parents may know best, and that in that community such decisions can be made for the benefit of their children and of the large community. Equal opportunities for everyone assume that we all recognize that we are different and that we all have different starting points. That recognition has been absent in the eight-year red-green project. That's what the voters told us at the last election.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e3685	The business community in Hordaland was well pleased with the result of the big shot. In fact, both the public and private sectors have been experienced in their loyal and reasonable relationship with the government at all times. However, in the run-up to the fall, the expectations for a political shift were particularly high in large parts of the private sector. Wherever we came in the campaign, to small and medium-sized private-sector enterprises, the message was the same: now there is something to do with the property tax and inheritance tax. Innumerable were the examples from the owners of the enterprises of the way in which the property tax collected the equity of the enterprises when the dividends had to be collected, taxed and then paid as taxes on wealth. There were also many of the examples of unfair and unlucky competition. The hotel owner of one of Hordaland's excellent family hotels could disclose such consequences. The property tax had to be paid, while the competitor, where the hotel was owned by a foreign hotel chain, did not have the burden of the property tax. So what's the solution here? You could sell the hotel that had been in the family for generations, and get away from the problem. Is that good morale? Transferring ownership to the next generation is not easy either. An heir may not be able to receive such a gift because of the inheritance fee. Is that how we want it? When the Right took up the problems of property taxes and inheritance taxes, this was met with massive resistance and a sort of harelas from the red-green ones. Fortunately, this criticism gradually subsided. In the submission of the State budget, the outgoing government pointed to an increase in the deduction of both property taxes and inheritance taxes. This is good, because it shows that the right points here have come to understand. However, the proposal contained in the submitted budget is for puzzles. The platform of the new government states that the property tax should be further reduced and that the rate of the remaining part should be reduced. In addition, the inheritance fee must be completely removed. Business in Norway can look forward to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e3696	I am pleased that Norway has received a government that sees the importance of its own big city bet. The big cities are Norway in miniature. In urban areas, both traditional industry and innovation are being created in new industries. More and more people choose to move to the big cities, both from around the country and around the world. These citizens too should be welcomed through a well-functioning labour market, housing market, collective services, schools and welfare services. The population of urban areas is increasing and is expected to increase in the years to come. We need to make a strong commitment to infrastructure in and around the largest cities. The Government will ensure that the current public transport reward scheme in the major cities is based on objective criteria and documented results. I'm glad. In 2030 my home town will have over 800,000 inhabitants. We know that education is one of the most important factors for both integration and social mobility. Oslo and the growth of other cities in the children’s and young people’s segment lead to the need for significant investments in school capacity in the coming years. The big cities have a lot to do to succeed, but at the same time it is in cities that we find the biggest challenges. There will always be someone in society who falls outside. The public can't be all for everyone, but it has to be there for those who need it the most. Cities have greater social challenges, but they also have more capacity to meet the challenges. I therefore look forward to better opportunities for cities themselves to meet these challenges in cooperation with the state. In the government’s platform, major cities are given a significantly larger space for action through increased freedom from state detail management. But now let us not fall for the temptation to make this a debate on city-to-country, because it is not. The government is ready for its bet in the districts, and the Right knows the districts well. Over 50 pst. the population of the country lives in a right-hand municipality. The land is built from below. Our communities are one of the best in our country, but cities are important for the development of the different parts of the country. More jobs and good community services in a city create population growth, schools, housing, workplaces and kindergartens in neighbouring districts. In a big city, there's room for everyone. There should be room for the applicant for a job, and for the person who wants to create his own. There should be room for the person who has moved to the city to study, but has the heart of the hometown, and there should be room for the refugee family who, after hard work, moves out of their municipal dwelling on Sagene and realizes the housing dream by buying rowhouses in Groruddalen. In the big city, there's room for everyone. The new government will take care of that, and I look forward to the work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e3711	At the end of today's debate, it seems that we are beginning to have a debate that is a little bit more about the big differences between the right-hand side and the left-hand side. The representative Hille was up here and said that the richest can now look forward to billions of tax dollars. Yes, they can. The healthy people who are at work will receive tax relief, and it will not benefit the sick and the insured. We're not going to distribute this. If you suffer from an old age pension, many of which have been young disabled and never had the opportunity to work, you will now lose half of the protection of your life expectancy as the previous government introduced. So it's those who are going to bear the burden of the need of the right to give tax relief to the richest people in the country. It's an unsocial profile, it's an unfair profile, and it has no world thing to do with the taskbar. The representative Kapur was just up here and said that the welfare state should be the most suitable for those who need it the most. Yes, it must. Therefore, the welfare state is a good one, an advantage for society. We produce more when it's good and strong, but it's also an ethical position, a moral position, which says that all people have the right to live worthy lives – live good lives, have good days – sail if health isn't such that you've been able to work a single day in life. The representative Rotevatn is concerned about working life. But what he does not understand is that the main distribution of power and money takes place in the workplace, and it is not that an employer and an employee are equal. This is why it is so important that an employee can rely on the trade union movement in order to achieve the rights he is entitled to but also to be protected in order to obtain the rights conferred by the Employment Environment Act today. I'm glad. More temporaryity only leads to more temporaryity. There will be no more jobs of this kind, but there are several people who have to work unsafely for a long time – could not borrow to establish themselves and could not go further in their lives. Organisations of disabled persons will not have any more temporary posts. Talk to them! I've been doing that for the 16 years I've been sitting on the Stortinget. Never have they asked to be pushed ahead to weaken employees' rights, as if it were easier for them to work in a working life that is tougher than what we have today. It's not like that. Nor is it the case that most workers in Norway can do their job from a laptop on a cabin. No, they have to drive the bus, they have to stand in the store, they have to work in the hospital, in the kindergarten and in the school. There we depend on working time being such that it is possible to stand to retirement age.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e3722	I have listened with increasing wonder to more people who from this pulpit may seem to have confused 2013 with 2005, because it was in 2005 that Dagsavisen's Arne Strand wrote that the government came to the table. Unemployment was on the way down, interest on the way down and the economy on the way up. Today, this situation is a little bit different. DnB's CEO, Rune Bjerke, says that the economy is on its way from full gas to half speed. The vacancy has increased in the last year and is on its way up. There are 15 000 more poor children than when the red-greens took over in 2005. There is a record level of debt in municipalities. The two-way distribution of the economy has increased. This is done at the same time as the 2013 Perspective Communication states that the Norwegian welfare state is not sustainable in the long term – this is due, among other things, to a loss. oil income, post-employment benefit obligations and other costs related to the coming wave of old age. The under-coverage of the welfare state will only increase if we do not get a new direction for Norway. I remember that the Labour Party in the election campaign felt that tax laws were not compatible with public welfare. Of course, this isn't right. They knew that, and they showed it in the budget submitted this year. Here it is proposed to increase the amount of the inheritance tax and the deduction of the property tax. No one disagrees that everyone has to pay taxes to finance public services that benefit the entire population. But it is not entirely immaterial how this money is used. Several have said that it is good to live in Norway. But this is a snapshot, a Kodak moment. But as we know, Kodak applied for bankruptcy protection last year, because without innovation, innovation, with misinvestment and without priorities, this industry struggle was unable to survive. The biggest mistake they made already in the 1980s when they invented the digital camera, but decided to continue with the paper film, because that was the future. It was decisions 30 years back in time that led to the bankruptcy in 2012. There would be no changes to the current welfare state that would lead to the fall of the welfare state of Norway in the future not far away. Lack of changes in today’s welfare state would lead to a future fall of the welfare state of Norway. That is why I am so happy that we have a new government that has ambitions on behalf of Norwegian students, Norwegian jobs, innovation, research and innovation. This is what will ensure the welfare state in the future and ensure opportunities for all. There is no contrast between tax relief and welfare. Right handed tax relief to people with normal wages the last time we were in government, while at the same time reducing health cows. This has been done by the right. We're about to do this again. Lack of changes in today’s welfare state would lead to a future fall of the welfare state of Norway. That is why I am so happy that we have a new government that has ambitions on behalf of Norwegian students, Norwegian jobs, innovation, research and innovation. This is what will ensure the welfare state in the future and ensure opportunities for all. There is no contrast between tax relief and welfare. Right handed tax relief to people with normal wages the last time we were in government, while at the same time reducing health cows. This has been done by the right. We're about to do this again.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-22.ana.ud539e3745	Several have not asked for the word. The debate in today's sitting is closed. The debate on agenda item No. 2 and No 3 will continue tomorrow. Tomorrow's meeting starts at noon. 10th@item: inlistbox - The meeting's been cancelled.
