ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e49	The following called alternates have taken their seats: For the West-Agder countries: Benjamin Groenvold For Hedmark County: Lasse Juliussen For the Nordic counties: Greta Johanne Solfall and Veronica Pedersen For Oslo: Aina Stenersen For the Northern Trøndelag County: Terje Sørvik For Eastfold County: Wenche Olsen The request for leave of the representative of Inbjørg Vogskesen on 3 and 4 December is submitted by the Group of the Progressive Alliance to attend the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly in Paris. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative of the goods, Lene Langemyr, is proposed to meet during the period of leave. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Lene Langemyr is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e93	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Stortinge meeting this week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Lise Christoffersen. – Other proposals are not available, and Lise Christoffersen is unanimously elected president of this week’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e103	The representative of Mr Trine Skei Grande will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e106	On behalf of the representatives of André N. Skkelstad, Ola Elvestuen and myself, I would like to propose an evaluation of Norway's involvement in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e111	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that case No. 6 – Unit – to be addressed before case No. 1st@item: inlistbox – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e296	Let's go to case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e310	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e324	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e338	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e352	The Control and Constitutional Committee shall submit its proposal for appropriations for the State budget for 2014 under the framework and chapters allocated to the Stortinget Committee. The setting includes appropriations for the Royal House, the Stortinget and the underlying institutions. As the Stortinget has already decided, the framework for what the Committee deals with and presents to the Stortinget for distribution today is DKK 1 852 783 000. The Committee's position is unanimous, with a minor exception, to which I shall return. The Committee's position is based on the proposals of the Government of Stoltenberg and the Government of Solberg, which are completely identical to the chapters which the Stortinget is now invited to deal with. The rapporteurs for each chapter will take the floor, if necessary, later in the debate. It is natural for me, as chairman of the Committee and rapporteur for the chapters Stortinget and the National Audit Office, to make some comments on the proposal for appropriations under these chapters. Under the heading Stortinget it is proposed that a total of 1,222 800000 be allocated to the operation, maintenance, work of the batches and other activities of the Stortinge. This is 10 million. kr less than what both the government of Stoltenberg and the government of Solberg proposed, but is the result of the reconciliation between the governmental parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left. During the financial adjustment process, the Workers' Party also joined this process. In the agreement, it was assumed that this cut of 10 million. NOK should be added in its entirety to the operation of Stortinget. After further discussion, the breakdown is broken down into operations and maintenance and, in the case of the majority, by 1 million. kr in the aid to the party groups. The plural portions propose an operating cut of 5 million. NOK 4 million. kr must be cut for maintenance and – as I have already said – 1 million. cut into the group support. It'll be explained in more detail, I assume. In its consideration of this, the Labour Party, the Centre Party, SV and the Greens believe that this cut of 10 million. NOK 5 million shall be distributed. NOK in operation and SEK 5 million. kr on maintenance. This is the little one I announced is in the setting. Why is there a mark from the Workers' Party, SV, the Centre Party and the Greens on this? Of course, this is absolutely no big deal – I would like to stress to Stortinget that I do not believe it is. But I would like to remind you that at the end of the last period, we had a discussion – at the initiative of the presidency – about the organisation of the distribution of group support. Then there were certainly two things of the previous magnification, and it was that there was going to be a distribution that was something more to favor, to say it like this, for the smaller and medium-sized parties. It accepted, among other things, The working party by going in for a redistribution that was about the Workers' Party giving away 3 million. kr of the distribution in the previous period. It was also said in that setting – and that is the point here – that it was assumed that the level you had in the previous period was maintained. Therefore, I believe in principle that it is wrong that the Stortinget should be invited to do a cut in the party support so quickly after the Stortinget had an opinion on this particular issue in the previous period. I repeat that I do not believe this is a major matter, but I think it is okay that we mark it as I do now, both through what I am now saying to the Stortinget, and through the setting of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, SV and the Greens are united. The next one is about the Riksrevision. It is unanimously proposed that 476 million be allocated. kr for the operation of the National Audit Office, which is in line with the proposals of both Governments. If that's saying that it's necessary to make an underline, and I think it's an important apropos to what we've just done, namely to choose new national auditors and national auditors. I still hear a discussion about the size of the Riksrevision, both here in Stortinget and in the public conversation. It is good, because I believe it is correct and necessary that the Storting is also aware of the discussion about the size of the Riksrevision, its operation and its profile. But what I feel a very strong need to be told is that what I've experienced over the four years I've been in the control and constitution committee for the previous period – and I think that's quite a consensus – is that the Riksrevision's work is of high quality, and that one does not present unfounded opinions and views to the Storting. On the contrary, what they come forward with is well-documented and is the basis for a very good debate in the United Kingdom on the follow-up by the government to the decision-making process. I say this because it's now a renewed conversation, I notice, which is linked to the feeling that what is associated with the Riksrevision's administrative audit goes beyond its powers. I think that's not right. I can't find one example from the previous period, and I don't see any sign that the Riksrevision doesn't do exactly what the Storting asked them to do. It is the Stortinget that has arranged for the National Audit Office to conduct administrative audits. It's because they just wanted the Riksaudition to go into the aspects of government and government work that were about something other than numbers, that were about follow-up, that were about practice, and that sometimes also put the Storting's decision under critical light because it might have been unrealistic decisions. I think that is a sensible way to dispose of the resources of the National Audit Office, and that is why I want to say these things now, in connection with this allocation, because we have now got a new National Auditor. I don't think Per-Kristian Foss is present, but he'll probably observe what's said. I say this also on behalf of myself, of course, but I am now the head of the Control and Constitutional Committee, and I want to say to the new National Auditor: I assume that on his own basis, within the provisions adopted by the Storting, he follows an active practice in the field of administrative audit. That's where I think the Riksrevision is doing its most important job, and that forms the basis for a critical review of the administration. When we have such an active management audit as we have, we get the opportunity to go into issues that we wouldn't otherwise have the opportunity to see. It is very difficult for the Storting without the Riksrevisions to have a qualified debate on the matters we have adopted, and the way they are implemented. Finally, I would like to say it so solemnly that I believe that this is indeed a crucial condition for the Storting to have the opportunity to comply with the Basic Law provisions on control of the administration. This has therefore been said in the light of the fact that I am still hearing a debate outside the Chamber. I would like to invite Stortinget on this occasion to have alternative opinions and perceptions of what I have now said, but we have to take this debate in this room and not just outside the hall and in the columns. This is where it must be taken if we believe that the Riksrevision does not comply with the provisions and decisions of the Storting. That is why the proposal is also 476 million. kr to the Court of Auditors for 2014, which is therefore unanimous both in both governments and in the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e382	I will begin where the chairman of the committee was absent, namely the budget area of the National Audit Office. It's true that we've had a preliminary and very early discussion about the Riksrevision. Now we don't have to be disturbed in particular in budgetary work, because we fully agree on the framework of resources given to the audit. There will be revisions in 2014 as well — both the regular audit of accounts and the administrative audit. But only to round off the discussion to which the chairman of the committee may have invited and to which we must go on in the committee: it is also important that the management audit does not evolve into something that can be interpreted as based on non-objective criteria. Therefore, the audit criteria must be transparent and must be related to objective standards. We're all earned that, including the National Audit Office itself. We will then be able to get a lot of feedback — useful feedback — on how to better manage our departments, as well as the regular audit of accounts, which aims to prevent irregularities and irregularities in the accounts, to put it simply. In order to show that it is not a pure theory that you can sometimes cross the border of what a revision and a national audit should deal with, we have in relatively fresh memory that the Riksrevision announced revision of the NRK's journalistic line to see if it was in line with the Stortingen's assumptions. Clearly, from the point of view of freedom of expression, it was extremely problematic. We were also quite relieved when we saw that the case, which was notified to the NRK, was withdrawn by the audit itself. The second point made by the chairman of the committee is this disagreement as to whether the batch groups should be completely harmless to any change in the otherwise existing resource framework in this chapter. We have come to the conclusion that the party groups must bear 1 million. kr in downgrading, meets previous assumptions that a reasonable level of the lot aid has been found. This million has to be seen in the context of putting it at the disposal of 165 million. kr for the party groups, so we're at the same level. I would even say that although the amount is small, the signal effect would be quite problematic if this assembly had shown that there is at least something that has always been raised above any downward adjustment, and that is the parties themselves. Although the amount is small – one could discuss whether it should be larger – it is important that we also take our share of possible fluctuations in resource measurement. Otherwise, we agreed to add a general cut to the operating framework of the 10-million size. kr, so it is the device of these 10 mills. I'll talk about it. I would then like to close this article by addressing the proposal of the minority of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e397	The representative Michael Tetzschner has then taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e400	First to the theme of the distribution of the cut. It is legitimate to have different views on it, and it is also legitimate to believe that the political work of the mainstreaming groups is so important that there is no basis for cutting in those frameworks, and that it does not necessarily have anything to do with anyone being ‘higher than any downward adjustment’, as the representative Tetzschner just said. It could have been tempting to talk about others who obviously haven't had enough, and who get a lot in this budget. I'm not gonna go on with it. It is legitimate to believe that the resources now added to the policy support apparatus around the population groups are at the level that it should be today. It is also legitimate for small size groups to have a support device that allows them to do a good job in all the fields they are actually obliged to follow in this room. It's part of the arguments around this. Then to the debate on the Riksrevision. SV believes that we should have a strong national audit. The question is whether, as politicians, we are able to set clear targets that can be monitored in all contexts. How, for example, to do this. be able to revise some very important points which are difficult to measure? Money is easy to measure, and there are also some objectives that are easy to measure, but some other objectives are extremely difficult to measure. I'll give you an example. I spent eight years in the Labour and Social Committee and worked very hard with Nav. Perhaps one of the most important things a Nav office can do is if a human being gets there in his deepest distress and looks black at everything, but through the meeting with Nav might be able to see a hope that there's a life tomorrow as well, and that there's a light in the tunnel – it's perhaps the most important job such a public establishment can do, but it's absolutely impossible to measure, both for the Riksrevision and for some of us. I think it's important also when we're going to discuss what the Riksrevision is doing, that we don't necessarily question what they're measuring, but that the answer might not be the answer to everything. I think it's important to bring that with me. Nor is there any doubt that there is a need to look at the purpose of the laws we give. It places great importance on the Storting when we deal with the laws, but sometimes it seems that following the laws is a more focused on the individual points of the paragraphs below the social assignment given through a purpose paragraph. So to the area for which I am the case rapporteur, namely the Civil Ombudsman. The Civil Ombudsman has a very important role in society. It shall ensure that management takes care of the interests of individuals in a highly complex administration in a highly complex society. It's a very important role. For this reason, a unanimous committee has also called on the Civil Ombudsman to take initiatives towards the administration in order to put in place more systematics on how the Civil Ombudsman regime can be made known to persons who believe that they are subject to maladministration errors and injustices. There are a lot of people who don't know the scheme. The second is, and we get back to that when we get the annual report from the Civil Ombudsman, whether the Civil Ombudsman has the resources to follow up all the matters that are coming. It's important to take the big and important things, but it's also incredibly important for the trust in society that the Civil Ombudsman follows up things that may not be the biggest in the big context, but that for individuals can be absolutely essential. It's a very important correction for government, so there's no difference between people – no matter who they are. We know that there are quite different assumptions among people for who can lead their case seams in the different systems. Therefore, SV believes that we need more ombudsman arrangements in different areas, but I should not go into that now. So the Civil Ombudsman now has some new tasks, and it's incredibly important that they follow up. Among other things, the task should be developed as a ‘national prevention mechanism’ established in 2013, i.e. this year. Part of the current budgetary growth is set to follow up this function. However, it is also important to reduce the time needed to deal with complaints. In some of the cases where you need to go further with the case, we see an increase in the procedure time at the Civil Ombudsman, and that is not good. It's now 210 days for cases that ended after being taken up with the administration, and there's a terrible amount of time for people who have experienced a situation that they're experiencing as unjust, and where they've also gone all the stages of administration before they get to the Civil Ombudsman. Then it's been a very long time. Hopefully that's a better situation. If it is not, people can be in really difficult situations if they experience that the proceedings take so long. Therefore, there is a need to give priority to bringing down the length of proceedings in the complex cases, which the Civil Ombudsman considers appropriate, so that the cases can be resolved at an earlier time. We will come back to this when we receive the annual report from the Civil Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e419	As can be seen from Innst. 10 S from the Control and Constitutional Committee, the Green Party has proposed an increase of 5 million in its alternative budget. kr on cap. 41 new entry 21 for the establishment and operation of a lobby register for Stortinget. In the autumn, there has been a lot of debate about the need for public access to personal and professional interests of government members and other elected people, and more transparency about which interest groups affect policy-makers has rightly been called for, not least outside public vocabulary. The Greens have not supported this as their own proposal, because the Left, with the representatives of Abid Raja, Terje Breivik and Pål Farstad, has already made a proposal for a lobby register for both the Stortinget and political leadership in the departments. This proposal supports the Greens, of course, and we look forward to a thorough debate on it at a later stage. The reason why I address the matter here is that such an action will have budgetary implications. The influence of political processes through lobbying is not only entirely legitimate, but also, of course, a vital part of the work to take informed decisions and firmly anchored decisions in the Storting towards society. Therefore, a lobby register is by no means a tool for limiting or suspecting lobbying. The point is that the resource effort, which is behind lobbying, is very large. And the resources, which many lobby groups represent, are very large. These resources are, for one thing, often in stark contrast to the resources that ordinary voters and citizens can place behind their potential desire to influence policy. Secondly, lobbyists often influence policy issues of very great importance and with very wide implications for society. There is no doubt that the heaviest lobby groups with the greatest resources will have the greatest impact on their interests. Who controls this influence on the Storting, and what matters they affect, are therefore of great importance to the common choice, to the public debate and also to the Storting itself. That very strong interest groups use very large resources and get through is politically very relevant information. This means that it is also very relevant for Storting to use resources to obtain, have an overview of and disseminate this type of information. So even though the Greens' alternative budget does not become a majority for the Environment Party, we hope that the proposal from the Left will lead to the creation of a lobby register for the Storting, and we are looking forward to this being dealt with and that, in the next round, it will also have to lead to the setting up of resources for this activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e432	I would like to join the head of the committee when it came to the budgetary position, and also join in his presentation of the majority's view where the Central Party, the Environment Party, the Greens, SV and the Workers' Party share a common position. When I asked for the floor, it was linked to the National Audit Office and the administrative audits. It's a very demanding area for the National Audit Office to go into, because there's a lot of political disagreement in many of those cases. Thus, it becomes difficult to act in such a way as to ensure that it does so in the most objective way possible. The Control Committee has had important issues relating to hospitals, agricultural policies and natural diversity laws – all issues where there are very strong political tensions. As a member of the Committee, I am very concerned that the Riksrevision will continue with the administrative audits to see if there is consistency between the objectives adopted and the results achieved and whether there is consistency between the objectives and the instruments used. It has, in my opinion, developed a good culture in the National Audit Office where one tries to improve in this area. It is difficult to determine which parameters to use – to what extent a good thing to find objective measurement criteria to see whether more or less precise objectives have been met. But if the Riksrevision continues to focus on the issues that are very important to society in terms of resources, where there is uncertainty about the extent to which one reaches the objectives, I believe that a person is involved in issues that are important for the Storting to discuss – based on the positions of the Control Committee. The National Audit Office then focuses on the practical reality. It has a firming in practical reality, regardless of which measurement parameters are used, and sees through it whether objectives can be said to be achieved through what is actually happening. I just want to finish by saying on this subject that the control committee has so far endeavoured to act as objectively as possible, and I hope that it will continue. It will then strengthen the role of the control committee in the future in order to try to improve management in such a way as to bring objectives into line with the results achieved. Finally, in the case of lobby registers, there is something that has not been discussed in the committee now, and which I would say on behalf of the Center Party that someone is coming back to, and I have more detailed reasons for what to achieve. But I agree with a lot of the representative Rasmus Hansson said about this, it's a central topic in which it's important to be clear, so that we avoid some of the uncertainty – to say it carefully – that is now emerging in many cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e445	First, I would like to say that the Committee has had a very good and thorough debate on the budget of this committee. At one point you've had one of these, and that's the distribution of the 10 million. NOK which was to be deducted in respect of the operation of Stortinget. I would like to make a few comments about that. We chose to take 5 million. of which from the operation itself. We chose to take 4 million. kr from major acquisitions and maintenance and 1 million. kr from political parties. When we chose to take something less from maintenance, there is a signal we give, that we must not push this with maintenance in front of us, and therefore we want to protect it somewhat. As the chairman of the committee said, there was no big deal about this with the dwindling also to political parties. It's a signal that's right there. The Progress Party also believes that it is a signal that political parties must also be able to take some of the burden of drawing something into the budget for Norway. In the case of the dwindling of political parties, it's 1 million. kr, and it represents only 6 per million of the sum available to political parties. For this reason we believe that this has to be tolerated, and we believe that we have a good profile on this. Otherwise, I will finally join in what the chairman of the committee said about the Riksrevision and the way in which it should carry out its work. I think we'll have a good opportunity to come back and discuss how it's going to do its work in the future, when we get a new National Auditor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e456	It's good that we get a discussion or a conversation – I'll almost call it – here in the Bighold about the Riksrevision. It's not often we have it. I just want to link some further comments to that. Of course, it is challenging what is associated with the administrative audit in what can be called objectivity. But it is now that politics is a relative matter, and it is that there can be a basis for many opinions, and it is up to the Storting to draw conclusions on the basis of the opinions of the National Audit Office. What is valuable about the administrative audit and the approach of the National Audit Office to it, as we have now experienced over time, is that it provides the basis for a good review of how the administration actually follows up the decision of the Grand Duchy. That's what I want to be like the very valuable. It's also to note that there are two relationships that I might think we have too little attention here in the house. I would like to mention that before we are likely to end this debate. One is that we notice that the administration has too weak a ability to read the conclusions and comments of the Storting and follow them up afterwards. The documentation of this is that we are now e.g. in the context of Documents 1 for 2013-2014, criticism is again raised, and criticism of parts of the administration which have gone over the years, without having been corrected. Of course, it's a big problem, because it's about important areas of society that hadn't come into the discussion here, if not the Riksrevision had pointed it out. Then it just still had the way it has been. I have an ambition – to put it this way – to try to correct this. At this point, I now invite the government, who is responsible for the management of the day-to-day, to really follow this up in a concrete way, so that the Storting actually does not – to use that expression – have to promote criticism over and over again about the same matter in the same field. I'm going to come back to this when we're going to deal with Document 1 later here in Stortinget, and then I'm going to illustrate what I'm saying now – and it's pretty serious. This – as I said – would not have occurred if the Riksrevision had not pointed it out. Finally, I agree with what Mr Tetzschner said about the NRK, of course I am, and that is all. But it's not an example that's typical of how the National Audit Office has handled the administrative audit. It's completely untypical, and what we immediately experienced was that the Riksrevisions Board and the National Auditor put an end to that matter. Thus, it is not an argument for being on the edge of dealing with administrative practices – one is well within, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e465	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e479	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to one hour and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e490	No justice policy can alleviate grief after the loss of a person is happy, removed the pain after an assault or the loneliness of a person who has not been seriously marked when trying to warn of an elected man. This is why the most important thing we do, as justice politicians, is to prevent crime with all that it entails for victims and relatives. Some of the tools we use are transferred to the Judiciary Committee. However, in order to really benefit from the full range of tools for prevention, we need to cooperate with other committees such as the Education Committee, the Labour and Social Committee and the Municipal and Administrative Committee. When we prevent rather than repair, we save money, but above all, we save lives. What we can also do as justice politicians is to ensure that our police, judicial system and our criminal chain ensure that violence, abuse and other crimes are quickly brought about. There is only one thing to be honest with. More needs to be done. Too many people feel that the perpetrator is free, while they are left with the consequences. But an important basis has been laid. In the last eight years, the police and prosecution authorities have increased their budget by 65 pst. The student recording of the School of Police has increased to record heights of 720 students, and funds have been put in to add them. During the first year after graduation, 95 pst is. by all former students added to police settings. For the first time in close relations, the priority has been given to building up a nation-wide device for those who are exposed to it. Seventy-five million. kr has also been specifically set aside for this particular type of violence and violence which is so numerous and which still has silence and taboo links. The penalties for violence, assault, family power and sexual mutilation are increasing, and the work to eliminate the limitation period for killing and sexual abuse against children is in progress. The previous government also launched juvenile punishment, a new criminal reaction that follows young people who commit crime, closer over time than a shorter prison sentence would have done. Although it does not belong to this committee, I also mention that only the last year is 5000 people without legal suspension in Norway transported by coercion, and several thousand have been encouraged to travel on a voluntary basis. Illegal detention in Norway does not automatically mean that one is a danger to security, but without legal delay, there are no legal ways to feed yourself. The work on the transport of persons with final rejection has therefore also had an impact on the overall safety work. After 22 July 2011, it became clear that our preparedness is not good enough. The Gjørv Commission was set down, and the previous government followed up with the big messages on terrorism preparedness and social security. Only the last two years have been set at 1.5 billion. kr to strengthen the preparedness process. But in the years to come too, this work will need strength and speed in implementation. Work is not finished, and there is no room to reduce progress. The work on preparedness and day-to-day preparedness is closely linked. It is a necessary clarification when, in the year to come, we are going to discuss the structure and organisation of the police and the content of police work. It is the knowledge from everyday work that also provides the basis for preventing, preventing and managing the more serious or extensive events in our society. But in addition, training and empowerment are needed in the sharpest situations. That is why the planned National Emergency Response Centre at Alnabru in Oslo is so important. There is a time for debate, discussion and evaluation, and a time for action. The Emergency Centre has a discussion now for almost ten years, the previous government was ready to act, and I'd like to see that the new government is. I'm glad it's a consensual committee that expands the previous government's commitment to the police for 2014 – which was 1 billion. SEK – with an additional 90 million. kr. In addition, it is also a co-consensual committee which increases the resources available to the response team. In conclusion, I would like to thank the Justice Committee for its good cooperation in the work of the State Budget for 2014, but above all, I would like to thank every single police officer and woman, every single member of the criminal service, in the conflict councils and everyone else who, in different ways, every day, contributed to a safer Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e516	In September we got the voter's verdict. The voters wanted a new policy for the country and a new government. That's what we've got. Justice policy will also be marked by the fact that we have got a new, more active and effective government. Citizens' security is a top priority. But let me also thank the outgoing government. Of course, we had many debates and sometimes high temperatures in the field of justice in the previous period. But yet they invited the red-green to broad political cooperation on some significant milestones along the way during the period. The work against organised crime, the follow-up of 22 July and the work against terrorism are just examples of this. It shows that the Storting can gather on important issues. It itself increases the security of society. The new government will continue this form of work. I would also like to thank the good and constructive cooperation the government parties have had with the Christian People's Party and the Left after the government change. Together, we have a budgetary settlement that unites our common desire for a clear, humane and focused justice policy, a policy that is solidly based on our common rule of law principles. The government parties went to the elections to strengthen the police, and the police were already strengthened at first opportunity. That's what I call executive power. One hundred million. The increase in the budget of the Directorate of Police will give rise to an extension of the budget. A strong neighbourhood police force is essential to create more security in society. In order to achieve safe communities, we are dependent on the presence and effectiveness of the police. Crime prevention in the neighbourhood is also very important to prevent young people from making choices they will regret for the rest of their lives. Police must also be equipped to meet the crime challenges of the future. Crime is becoming increasingly organised, more advanced and increasingly borderless, both geographically and in terms of violent instruments. It imposes increasing demands on strong regional and national police disciplines that can prevent and investigate precisely these developments. Then the police must be given freedom under responsibility to carry out the police subject they are best placed to carry out. We must therefore pursue a trust policy – where the political detailed management of the police is history. Under the red-greens, it was mostly more than 120 different goals or targets to the Police Directorate, as far as I remember. We don't get twice as good a police force, even though we double the number of targets they're going to achieve. A Joint Judicial Committee underlines the importance of the continuation and further development of cooperation and interaction between the Police Security Service and the Defence Intelligence Service, and that this should be based on a ‘need-to-share’ principle. Today’s threat picture is diffuse, actors are changing and national borders and geography are no longer of the same meaning as before. In that case, the national safety apparatus must be fitted in a way that is capable of handling it. This applies not least to a country such as Norway, with strategic location, large natural resources, few inhabitants and large neighbours. This cooperation must, of course, take place within clearly defined legal frameworks, with due respect for the different missions of the services and with proper democratic control. Establishing appropriate cooperation arrangements to address these concerns is a work in which some remain. But the Stortinget sends a clear signal with this that we require and expect this work to be carried out further. The single unit of analysis between the PST and the E service is a start, but cooperation should be further developed in order to provide a better overview of the overall threat picture – as the government platform formulations suggest. Information necessary to ensure the security of the State must be capable of being shared properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e535	It is a historically good budget for justice that the government has presented. Never before have you spent more money in this area. However, it is not that this budget is well alone because you spend a lot of money. It is a good budget for justice when you look at direction and priorities. In eight, we have had a red-green government that has had full control and responsibility in the field of justice. When assessing the effort, it is natural to bring forward the state of this sector at the time of the government change. In the case of preparedness, after a crushing criticism from the July 22 Commission, it was supposed to believe that the outgoing government had set all the cloths to correct the lack of bet and implemented the necessary system changes. But the situation is that it has done very little to improve preparedness. We remember all the statements made by the Chief of Emergency Team in the police department, which earlier this year could confirm that this had happened very little in the last two years. For prison services, prisons that were intended to be reserved for Norwegian prisoners and thus prisoners to be rehabilitated have been flooded by foreign criminals. Foreign criminals were to zone in their home country, but that has not been done by the outgoing government. The prison has an approximate prison life. 40 pst. foreign prisoners. In addition, there are approx. 1000 people who are in the queue, and we can still read about custody prisoners who are released because you do not have the capacity. In the case of courts, there are still queues, long waiting times and long processing times – and it is collapsing. An obsolete computer system only makes the situation even worse. The penal code adopted in 2006 is not yet implemented. As far as the police are concerned, we know, among other things: there is a lack of funds for investment in equipment and ICT, which makes the situation difficult. So this was some of the status when the new government took over. We have now received a powerful government – a government that, together with its cooperation parties in Stortinget, is able to take justice policy further, a powerful government that now wants to reverse the negative developments in pay queues. As a result, the budget is allocated to several places in prison, and more non-Norwegian citizens are assigned to zones in their country of origin. The budget also facilitates double rooms in prison where this is possible. The police are getting the budget of the times – a huge increase in order for the police to do their job. Newly trained police officers should be able to be offered a job. Several tasks the police are carrying out today are to be left to others, so that we get more policemen out in the streets who can concentrate on doing the job that we all want to do, namely to ensure the security of our citizens. The budget provides a significant boost in the number of new police posts for the coming years. In the capital, we've been reminded over the last few weeks of how important it is with the presence of the police. A visible police in the cityscape provides security. Several police officers will be able to defeat crime in the areas we are experiencing have grown under the previous government. The Courts are strengthened in the budget – this is in order to ensure coherence in the criminal justice chain. When police and criminal services are strengthened, it is equally important that budgetary resources be given to recruit more judges, so that we get away from the range of cases in our courts. In the field of justice, we now see a strong increase in our commitment to transporting people who do not have a legal residence. It is not the Justice Committee's main task number one, but it is important to mention that this is now a commitment of the Government of the Ministry of Justice. In the case of people who are not legally resident, it is important to remember that Norway should not be a port of refuge. Norway shall be a safe and secure place for its residents and those who have been accommodated. People who have been denied their applications are going out. Since many do not travel voluntarily, it is great that the government now, with budgetary resources on the table, clearly says that this work should be intensified. This will also be a clear signal to all those who commit crime in this country and who do not have a residence. In the short time available to the government, it is therefore admirable that there have been so many more shipments in the coming and current years. Finally, in the case of preparedness, we have unfortunately seen how wrong it can be when emergency work has not been given priority. Then it is good that we have replaced the government that has not taken the emergency work seriously. The Right Party Government has already taken action. The preparedness shall be strengthened. The Government has put forward proposals for strengthening civil defence, the 24-hour civil situation centre of the Ministry of Justice and Defence, increased allocation to the Central Rescue Centre, strengthening the Kripos and the PST as well as increased emergency personnel. We now have a government that builds its policies on the need for security of the individual in everyday life – and that prioritises this. The Progress Party welcomes the change we have now received in the field of justice policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e565	I don't know if I'm going to be as crystal clear as the previous speaker, but at least I'm going to take the opportunity to commend the Council of State and the government for clear speech. My experience after just six weeks is that there are high ambitions and clear action on exactly what the previous speaker was talking about. The most important thing for the Christian People's Party is that we are able to create security, that we are able to create secure communities, that we are able to ensure safe growth conditions. We are therefore pleased that the Committee stresses so clearly that prevention must be a central element of the work. We are also pleased that the Committee points to a high priority for violence in close relations. It's precisely helping to create the safe growth conditions that we want. That's why it's clear that the bet on the police that's now coming, with over a billion dollars. kr extra compared to the 2013 budget is important. It is important to employ all the police students now trained, and it is important to achieve the target of two police officers/women per 1000 inhabitants by 2020. It shows the wave of ransacks that have dominated the capital of the last time, which has been mentioned by several people, the importance of. There I would like to commend the Council of State for clear immediate action, but we must not forget the preventive part of the work, because nothing is cheaper and better than preventing crime from actually happening. But I am glad that on the part of the Committee, it is a clear emphasis on the fact that we should give priority to the whole chain of criminal proceedings, just as the government has said. This means that we need to strengthen the police — ensure by preventing and not committing crime, but clarifying the crime that is taking place — that one gets the remains of the courts down, and that one ensures that those who are sentenced to acquittal are actually sons. That's why the Christian People's Party is especially happy that we can protect the courts, that we can raise the courts, and that one actually comes with another 15 million. kr, so that you can bring down the leftovers there. We are also pleased that there is a commitment to criminal care, with increased settlement capacity, and that the government is so clearly – it also underlines the Committee – warning of an escalation, that a desire to anchor a plan in Stortinget. That is what the Christian People's Party is looking forward to. But I am concerned about and therefore also pleased – there is a lot we can be happy about today – that the committee so clearly says that the content of the soning must not be forgotten, because it is an incredibly important part of the work done in criminal matters. We're satisfied that it's a pretty low relapse rate, but it's still too high. We are good at international level in terms of few people in prison, but there are too many. The fact that a sentence on the content of soning, so that one ensures that those who zone, are better able to come back to a normal life, is incredibly important. It will be Christian People's Party to pursue further. I want to use the opportunity to highlight several things that the majority of the committee underlines in the comments, and that I think are important. One is the use of smooth cell. We know that there have been criticisms from both the Council of Europe and the United Nations Torture Committee, and the Committee on Justice is clear that a desire for a review and, to the extent possible, for a more radical conversion. I am pleased that a unanimous committee wants the government to review the practice, and I look forward to the government coming back with it. The Committee is also clear in the case of child custody hearings. Today, there is an average of 42 days — and unfortunately there are also cases with much longer waiting time than that — from notification to judicial hearings. It's too long, it's much longer than the law permits, where it's underlined that it's going to happen within 14 days. It is children who are seriously assaulted, who need trustees – parents or others, who it is now – to talk to and talk about what has happened. It is then important that the hearings are conducted quickly. We are also pleased that, after the agreement between the Christian People's Party, the Left and the government parties, there are 10 million in the budget. For travellers beggars for humanitarian offers, such as overnight accommodation and sanitary services. It surprised me very much that the previous government did not leave any money there, when it had started a escalating and one came with 10 million. kr i revised. I'm glad that we, along with the government, have brought in a new 10 million. kr – fresh funds – that non-governmental organisations can apply for in order to make good offers. The final point will be on victim care. I am pleased with what is on the government platform, and what the committee stresses: that we want a greater focus on victims of violence and on their follow-up, and that the government is alerting itself to its own strategy. Finally, I would like to mention that we are pleased that one also chooses to give priority to non-governmental organisations as high as one does. They do a fantastic job and can help complement the public services.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e591	As big politicians, we are elected by the people. The inhabitants have chosen us, and we will again make choices that tend to the people. Our policies should preferably have something good to do. In debates and word struggles we run with rhetorical fines, more or less elegant, and sometimes we drift all the way away instead of playing on teams. But the important thing is not who wins these word games, but what we do and what the result is. If we take a look at numbers, we see that it's going to be used almost 25 billion. kr in the justice sector in the next year’s government budget. There's a lot going on, but what we get can't be accounted for in money. The promises we're about to adopt today will make it possible to prevent, detect and solve crime, get convicted and offer a pardon that will make the first time anyone is convicted, for most people will also be the last time. The budget for justice shall contribute to better preparedness, smooth running of land change, compensation for victims of violence, the functioning of the yardstick system for those in need of free legal assistance, etc. It's a lot of stuff. Some of what I'm proud that we red-green did during the eight years of government until the fall, is that we raised the theme of choice and abuse, and that we got a big message about power in close relationships. The penalties for these crimes and for killings are significant. We have focused on content and on the goal of good rehabilitation in soning, we have valued the work of voluntary organisations and conflict councils, and we have put children's homes in more and more cities. Now, when I'm going to sum up a little bit of what we've done, it's more to show a direction for what to do in the future than to stay in the past. It's important to keep your head fixed once you've found the right course. At the same time, we're going to be clear about what's not good enough, and we're going to do something about it. Better balance in the criminal justice chain can be mentioned, as can ICT bet. Our society is safe from society in other parts of the world, but there's too much wrong with us, too. For all those in Norway who are subjected to serious assaults and violence, it does not help to think that there are even more people who experience this in war-torn countries. If there's a rana on the street, it's as real and scary as it would be in Madrid, and when the hurricanes master and the roof of the house go in the air, or the ground under the house disappears, you don't think that this is nothing compared to a tornado in the United States. That's why it's also crucial that we take people seriously, that we take on the great responsibility we have for making good choices for the people's debt. The number of people who experience them will be reduced to accidents and offences, and help will be provided as quickly as possible. Preparedness is a central and important theme. The emergency tanker shall preferably flow through all floors. Then we have a few years in which much of the focus in the justice sector has been directed towards the lack of preparedness and the lack of ability to prevent, react directly and interact. Special criticism has been directed against the police. I feel that people in the department are genuinely concerned about making improvements where necessary, and that they see the ongoing process of police reform as positive. That's a good starting point. The police are the justice sector that has received the highest increase in the last eight years, but there is always a need for more, both within this department and all the other agencies. Regardless of how much or how little money we have for different purposes, it is crucial to use the resources correctly and as targeted as possible. There is no doubt that the parties at Stortinget are to a large extent some of the main lines of justice policy as well, but there will be issues of value-seeing and priorities. Of the political divides that are likely to become more visible in the year and in the years to come, the structural issues – simply say: how many police districts, county offices, naudstrales, district courts, land change rights and prisons we are going to have, and where the remaining ones are to lie. These are questions that we in the Center Party are concerned about, not because the structure itself is so interesting, but because the consequences of major structural changes can be the opposite of what one wants to achieve. Now that we're going into the process of reforming the police, the Central Party will actively support changes that will improve the police action, including changes in organisation, but not massive border changes that look tense on the map, but that don't fit the terrain. I started by saying that we elected people should make good choices on behalf of the inhabitants. Keeping a strong local police force while at the same time providing food for the professional community is one of the good choices we can make.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e617	As several speakers have pointed out, there are many major and important stakes in this budget. But the justice field is a big area, and there's a lot to tackle. Not everything can be measured, but that doesn't mean it's not as important. The left is concerned about working well and targeting crime prevention. There are also some areas at the intersection of justice and health that are important to address, for example: mentally ill or addicts who commit crime. We hope that the Minister of Justice will follow up these areas in a good way in the time to come. Privacy and surveillance have been discussed in the last few weeks both here in the hall and in the media. Some of the most fundamental for a rule of law is to protect its citizens, but one cannot go along with or contribute to undermining respect for human rights, individual freedoms and principles belonging to a modern state of law. In the alternative budget of the Left, we cut over 200 million. kr for the implementation of the Data Storage Directive. The left was well-known against this directive being implemented in Norway, and we do not want to give money to implement it. In this way, we save both the state for money and Norwegian citizens for a large-scale monitoring. We have registered that the government has proposed to postpone implementation by six months. Of course, we're happy about that, and we'd like to see it exposed further. The left is and has been skeptical of the government’s proposal for the doubling of prison cells. We see that it can be challenging to achieve in a way that safeguards both the dignity and the security of the prisoners. We're talking here about adults with a criminal background that's going to share a prison cell that's initially calculated for one person. For us, therefore, it was very important that we were included in the budget agreement that this is an action which should only apply to short-stay accommodation, and that we make sure that this should be done under the legislation of international conventions. Norway has been criticised on several occasions by the Council of Europe and the United Nations torture committee for the use of smooth cells. This is something we can't be aware of, and that it should have been taken care of a long time ago. As I see it, this is one of the most important areas in which the Minister of Justice and the government have to address within the justice field in the next period. I have recorded that the committee has stated in a comment that no one should sit on smooth cell beyond the allowed 48-hour period. Of course, we are pleased that the committee is clear, but we in the Left believe that we cannot concentrate on this. Smooth cells are lined up in a way that doesn't make them fit to sit over time, and for many that are put on smooth cell, it's a big touch. In many cases, such a cell is not necessary either. In many cases, an ordinary prison cell can be both adequate and better suited. Therefore, the left wants to transfer the grips from smooth cell to normal prison cell as quickly as possible, and at the latest within 24 hours. As regards the use of smooth cell in the context of the imprisonment of children, the Committee notes that persons between the age of 15 and 18 should not be placed on smooth cell unless exceptional circumstances so require. When we know what kind of mental perception it is to sit on a smooth cell, we in the Left believe that there must be a basis to go even further and say that we should not place children on such cells. The left is behind the government's proposal to strengthen the courts by 10 million. kr compared to Yellow Book, and we are very happy that the committee chooses to strengthen the courts by another 5 million. kr. There must be a balance in the criminal justice chain, and then it is important that the courts too be given sufficient resources. We cannot sit in a situation where there are large amounts of money in the judiciary, with the consequences it has for the individual citizen as well as for society as a whole. In the budgetary agreement between the government, the Christian People's Party and the Left, 10 million were also granted. SEK for overnight accommodation provided by non-governmental organisations. In recent years, we have seen an increase in the number of EEA citizens coming to Norway to beg. For us in the Left, it is important that these are received in a humane way, and there are great variations between municipalities as to how many beggars are coming. Therefore, we are both pleased and feel it is important that the majority of the Committee has clarified in a note that the funds should be given priority where the municipalities have the most visitors.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e638	It is important that justice policy protects citizens and also our institutions from crime, but it is also important that justice policy ensures that citizens are protected from illegal state surveillance. Therefore, I would like to start by saying that I think it is very disappointing that the Minister of Justice and his party are going away from the idea of not introducing the Data Storage Directive – a promise they made last August – but want to introduce it. It has some implications that are very serious, and I know that the Minister of Justice knows, because he has agreed with those views. Then to the debate on reconciliation queues. It is important that punishment gets as close as possible to the crime and the sentence. It's proved to be most useful. It is then important to point out that the housing queue was reduced from 2791 in 2006 to 1,096 in 2013, and that the capacity has increased by 750 places in the last eight years. When there are now 70 new prison places available in the budget, and at the same time the introduction of the fine service equal to 50 places, the increase is not as large as the government says. Limiting the fine service prevents people from settling a fine through social services instead of being in prison, and for a very large number of these, it's not a good point that they're going to jail, because we know that getting into prison leads to an increased risk of an enhanced criminal racetrack. The same is well to say about increased home-zone, which has contributed well in terms of the settlement queue, and which has been picked out to those for whom it is suitable. It also means that fewer people need to zone in prison, where the risk of coming into contact with more crime is increasing. Therefore, it is also, SV believes, regrettable that the government has now cut the post of new juvenile punishment by 2 million. kr. Getting a juvenile sentence is important, because it needs to be marked, and this is young people who need massive follow-up to get out of a negative track. But it's important to keep the pressure on this, and I can probably add that in my home country there are several places that have signed up, and want to be a location for juvenile prison. I believe that the option in Folldal is a very good alternative, because there you can draw on the skills and knowledge associated with the Tyreli collective, which has very good experience in the repatriation and rehabilitation of young people. But now you cut this entry, and it's hard to see that there should be any reason. It is important to get juvenile punishment started — it has been unanimously agreed upon. There was one thing we worked out in the previous government, and it is important that it now comes quickly into place. Then I need to say something about perhaps one of the greatest problems of violence and crime we have today, namely violence in close relationships. The journalist Thomas Boe Hornburg had a political comment that in one week the police received 1,300 enquiries from children who reported domestic violence. So at the same time, it's 1,000 pounds a year. Ran is serious, terrifying and terrible, and we have to take it seriously, but when there are so many people who experience so severe violence and terrifying situations where one should be safe, it gets very close to the attention that is necessary, either in the media, in the debate or in the priority of justice policy. This is very serious, not just because there are bad crimes there and there, but we know that this almost invalidates people and characterizes children for the rest of their lives. It is even detected brain damage in children who are witnesses to violence. Therefore, it is important that the Minister of Justice puts more emphasis on this in the future, works more on it and sets up arrangements to ensure that the police also prioritise this. I'm a little worried when you say that family violence coordinators are going to do other things now – you have to put in place a reverse violent alarm, the expansion of the children's houses, and the police's capacity in this area needs to be strengthened and not weakened.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e649	With the government's additional proposition, we're now getting a budget where you think more of a whole. It strengthens the essential elements of the justice and preparedness sector. An example of the holistic approach is when the government and the government parties and the cooperation parties in Stortinget raise the criminal action chain as such as a bet area, not just taking out certain parts of the criminal action chain. Police are important, but courts are also important. The whole of this supplementary proposal, and also the budget agreement in the Stortinget, really represents a greater innovation than one would think. The focus of the debate on justice has been very often on some parts of the criminal justice chain, while addressing a challenge needs to be done through the focus on balance throughout the criminal justice chain. That now it's going to be 90 million. More to increased police force in relation to the red-green proposals, will lead to more policemen out in the streets. We are now using resources not only to employ the police students and others who have not received a job, but also to employ more civilians, such as the police. arrest warrants, which will in reality constitute one police officer or woman per new arrest warrant, because that job is being done by police officers today. This will allow the police to do police tasks, while civilians can do other tasks. Other examples are the strengthening of border controls, which can be done to a much greater extent by civilians. It is a strong and new commitment to economic crime and cybercrime, by considering in these fields others than just those with pure police education. It is obvious that people trained in auditing can actively contribute to the resolution of financial crime. The government aims to reach a police coverage of two per 1000 inhabitants by 2020. In order to do so, we must not only hire new students, but we must also ensure that we retain the skills of older police officers. We're not going to remove the right to leave for police officers from 57 and 60 years old, but we're going to give them the opportunity to continue if they want to. Today, the system is such, unfortunately, that many of these with a lot of competence feel exposed to being removed from the job because it is cheaper to hire new people than to retain their skills. So it has to be a right to go off, but not a duty. Then there is a cross-political consensus on strengthening preparedness. The government is very pleased with that. It's been done quite a lot since the terror hit us in 2011, but it's done too little. Fortunately, the new government is now making great efforts to ensure better preparedness throughout the country. Of course, examples include better basic police personnel and increased numbers of emergency personnel with 13 posts in the fall and 13 posts in the next year. It will provide a significantly enhanced preparedness. Another area to which it has been focused, including in the debate, is the Emergency Response Centre. The government has a strong focus on correcting the mistakes that we have inherited from the previous government about ambiguities related to emergency services. We have a lot of pressure on this. We could have had even stronger pressures if the basis for the decision had been better from before. In addition, it is important to focus on the fact that the preparedness focus must not result in a weakening of other elements of police activity. I have registered a concerned national lawyer who has challenged the quality of some of the investigation cases that have gone from the police. We need to take those signals seriously, too. That is why it is important to strengthen the entire criminal chain, including police lawyers and investigators. Then there is an important measure that may have received a little too little attention, and it is that with the newly won role of the Ministry of Justice as a permanent management department it has also followed with a situation centre. It hasn't been 24 hours. Now it's the 24-hour crew. It's a significant strengthening of the capacity we have to be permanent government departments in national crises, and I'm glad that it doesn't meet any particular resistance. In addition, we strengthen the civil defence and the main rescue center and are happy that we are now in the final race of the rescue helicopters. That is an important part of the job to be done. Then – surprisingly quickly – I will come to the end, the time is running fast. I just want to say briefly that the stakes in prison places are important. It's strong. We're releasing 88 new places. It is crucial and a much better option than to bet too much on other types of reconciliation options. So we do a lot in a very short time, and I want to finally thank the Stortinget for a good cooperation. There is a lot of consensus in the committee, and of course we take those signals with us in our further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e677	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e681	I noticed that the Council of State was occupied with sufficient reconciliation capacity, and so are we in the Workers' Party. The Red-Green Government has proposed alternative forms of compensation, the introduction of fines and the concrete follow-up to the construction of a new prison and emergency centre. The reconciliation capacity increased and the reconciliation queues went down under our government. With $4 billion. kr more to use in total and the focus of the Council of State on ‘wholeness’, as we heard in the article, however, cuts the government in juvenile punishment and 15.5 million. In the form of fines, they delay — or at least create — the construction of prisons and emergency centres. And they introduce the doubling of cells, which is a poor solution, and which in my opinion can actually lead to more crime than less crime. It'll always be a weak part when you put two in the same cell. I ask: I believe the Council of State is testifying to the power of action to investigate more and spend more money on poorer solutions and cut by 15.5 million. in measures that would release 50 more prison places, when the government increases the total use of money by 4 billion. Do you really want to delete this item?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e690	The premise on this question is completely wrong. There were so many errors that it is difficult to fix everything in one minute. But let me take a little thing, the criticism against the doubling of cells. The reason we have to do that is because there are no clear plans that will allow us to get more prison places quickly. We have a prison queue that is now between 1,200 and 1,300 people, and the previous government has done nothing to solve an acute challenge. The prison queues just go up and up and up. With the measures we have now proposed, and as the Storting confirms, we release enclosed spaces, 88 in total, and some of them are cell doubling. If the representative Henriksen's party had thought it was so disastrous, I think it's nice that her own party administered similar arrangements until 2008. I don't think so much has happened since 2008 that there should now be absolutely irresponsible duplication of cells, while it was perfectly sound until 2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e697	The Minister of Justice and Security on behalf of the people and the Grand Duchy shall contribute to the security of all residents of the country, and the Council of State shall ensure rapid and effective preparedness when crises occur and that there is good competence at all levels. The Stoltenberg government was engaged in good progress in setting up a new emergency centre, but after the blue-blue government arrived in the government offices, the Progress Party and the Council of State have created considerable uncertainty associated with a new training and emergency centre in Alnabru. On the basis of this, my question is: when both the Minister of Finance and the Council of State want a rematch and now proposes Lahaugmoen and Eggemoen, without any new results, is it the 18 000 m2 that is too small, is it the 30 targets set at Alnabru, which are too small? What is new when the Council of State opens a new round for the establishment of an important and necessary police emergency centre?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e707	What is new is that we have discovered how badly the previous government has done to secure a new emergency centre. Originally the starting point was 18 000 m2, now it's 32,000 m2. It's probably going to be more. The plot area is 30000 m2. But I want to be very clear – I've been to Stortinget many times – that it's not about any rematch. This government is working hard to increase the area on Alnabru. We have a close and good cooperation with the Ministry of Transport to ensure that we can realize the emergency centre at Alnabru. But if, against assumption, it wasn't possible to solve it, it would have been very unwise for a government not already to have gone through any alternative locations. That's why these two processes have gone parallel: to make sure we don't get out too late and we don't get any delays. So that's the opposite of what the representative fears. We contribute to a realisable and faster implementation of a response centre, not the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e725	I used my post to praise the Council of State for its power of action. I am pleased with many of the matters that the Council of State has chosen to prioritise, and that there is a clear focus. In his article he also raised the rescue helicopters. There I have registered that it is a great willingness to carry out the purchase, and that is important. At the same time, we read in newspapers cases about corruption related to the company AgustaWestland. I would like to take the opportunity of the Christian People's Party to stress the importance that Norway, as a leading country, must be clear that corruption is unacceptable. Purchases of rescue helicopters are one of the largest investments to be made by Norway. Therefore, I would ask the Council of State to say a little more about the conclusion of the contract. What does the Council of State do in advance to ensure that we do not get into a squeeze where we either get into a situation where we can't get helicopters, or that we make an agreement with someone who is actually being convicted of corruption?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e737	Let me first thank you for the rose. It is a huge investment and an extremely important investment we are now investing in new rescue helicopters, which the Committee is also very clear in the committee's position. The Ministry has conducted a proper, regular bidding round. There has been a structured project that has gone through all the tenders received. Of course, we have also received what is happening to the supplier with whom we have now been negotiating – negotiations that are also going very well. But we have no opportunity either to announce new competition or not to choose the best supplier on the basis of the predetermined criteria, based on suspicions of corruption. We follow this closely, and there is also a clause in the agreement that means that if the company is convicted of corruption, it will be possible for Norway to review the situation. But we've been dealing with the framework that the Storting has set.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e748	The red-green government made sure of record high admissions to the Police College. We increased the rights of the police a lot, but because we thought it was important to get the most newly born police students to work quickly, we also targeted funds for this every year. The result has been that most people have got a job within what we can call a relatively short time. But especially the Progress Party and the Right have come with strong and repeated criticism that the red-green government did not get all graduates in the job immediately after the study. Most of the statements could be interpreted just such that one should have a job immediately after the study. Can the Council of State now guarantee that newcomers in the next few years will be able to go straight to full-time police work? If he can't guarantee this, what is it after the council's opinion acceptable time to wait for a job in the police when one is new?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e755	The government will deal with the budgetary framework laid down by this house. It is the police officers in the individual districts who use the funds allocated to them by the Police Directorate to fill the posts they need in their own police district, so it is difficult for a Minister of Justice to issue any guarantee that there will be a minimum time or a maximum time for a new police student to get a job. But what this government is doing is making sure that there are enough appropriations for the police that all newly educated high school police students can be added and get a job. It turns out that after a year it is about. 95 pst. of those who have graduated, already in the police department. Then there are some natural variations because there are some police districts that are more attractive job seekers than others. It probably creates a certain delay, but with the budget proposed by this government for the Storting, and for which the Storting is now in favour, there is room for the graduates to get work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e762	As several speakers pointed out, Norway has repeatedly been criticised for the use of smooth cell. I am absolutely sure that the Council of State is also concerned that we need to reduce the use of smooth cell – both in general use, and not least the number of hours you sit on smooth cell. The Committee noted that no one should sit on smooth cell for more than 48 hours. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State what concrete measures he wants to take in order to reduce the use of smooth cell, and that no one should have to sit there beyond what the Committee says, i.e. 48 hours.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e769	I've noticed the committee's unanimous commitment in this regard, and it's an commitment this council shares. There are essentially two measures that can be implemented quite quickly. One is to release more prison sites, so that a faster one can get ordinary prison places for those who have space on smooth cell at this stage. One of the challenges has been that it has been difficult within the 48 hours to get ordinary detention places available to those sitting on smooth cell. There is no excuse, but there is an assessment that is then made. That's not acceptable, and we have to free up prison grounds. The second is that the police director has to increase the focus on the police officers to ensure that there is no breach of the 48-hour deadline.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e779	There is a place between 75 000 and 150 000 people in Norway who are subjected to violence every year by someone they know. This is a very serious problem. If one had gathered them in one place, it equals a big city in Norway, actually in line with the Drammen, and it says a little bit about the problem. The seriousness of that I came into being. The Minister of Justice attaches great importance to the fact that there are now to be more policemen in the streets. I don't think anyone really disagrees with that. The question is, is there going to be more to assist those victims of violence who have been subjected to violence by someone who would take care of them? This is particularly true of women and children, who are often completely helpless in their situation. Will there be increased capacity for judicial hearings? Is there an increase in capacity to a higher clearance rate? And are the violence coordinators kept, so that we can step up our efforts in this area, and not get more tasks to do, so that efforts are weakened?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e786	This is a very serious problem, and it's a very complicated problem, and there are a lot of people affected. Therefore, efforts are necessarily wider than only the efforts the police can make. As the representative is aware, there is an action plan against violence in close relations that this government is to follow up, and also focuses more strongly on the concrete implementation of it. In addition, we work to reduce waiting time in children’s homes, which is an important measure. We also assess the creation of a ‘childhouse’ for adults, i.e. according to the same concept, but where adults can come and meet an overall support device there and then. We work with several non-governmental organisations. As the representative sees, I have a red button on me today, among others. because I had a very constructive meeting with the Norwegian Women's Sanitation yesterday. The government's focus on this serious problem is very strong, and we're working hard to solve some of the bottlenecks we see. So the effort should be further strengthened in this field as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e795	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e798	Available and effective courts that make decisions of high quality are essential for the legal certainty of individuals and for their general trust in the judiciary. The citizens shall have good access to the courts and matters shall be dealt with in a timely manner. I think we can be proud that Norwegian courts are of high quality and that they are among the most effective in Europe. Then I agree with the representative Leirstein on the importance of ICT – but perhaps not entirely in the history story – because there is a need for further development of ICT solutions in the courts. That is why the Red-Green Government proposed to establish a common platform for all proceedings in the courts. It will allow the development of its own functions in the various courts, while also making use of common developments. I am pleased that the new government is passing on the red-green government's proposal to strengthen ICT in the courts. Safety in the courts is important. We are well aware of the need to strengthen security and access control in OsloTinghus. Therefore, the Stoltenberg government proposed 33.3 million. kr for security measures at Oslo Tinghus. The situation as it is today is very challenging. The Labour Party and the Center Party find it very unfortunate that the government is cutting this whole thing. I believe that this action also belongs to the whole-hearted thinking that the Minister of Justice places on. One of the big bets of the previous government was against the election in close relation. The red-green government was the first government to deliver its own big message in the area, which strengthened the work by 75 million. kr. A force was taken against the power that has been regarded as a private matter for too long. I am pleased that the promises of important actions against the election in close relations in the justice sector are now being continued. I should also like the Minister of Justice to pay attention to this in his contribution to the Stortinget today. The strengthening of children's housing is an important strengthening of the Storing Communication and the budget. Barnehusa was established under the red-green government, and preliminary evaluations show that children’s homes have been very important to strengthen children’s legal certainty in Norway. I also expect the Minister of Justice and the new government to follow up on this work. Since the election in close relations is a major cross-administration political task to address, it means that there are several departments and several committees that have to care about these issues. What worries me is that the cross-political desires that were formulated during the treatment of the big shots of power in close relationships are not entirely related to the additional proposition of the new government. Under the budget of the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality, I am concerned about the proposed cut, which has much to say for the justice sector. The scope of the study of the choice and abuse of children is proposed to be removed, and the introduction of the child interview, which was set out for the development of a common training programme – joint training for different groups in the municipalities to talk to children about choice and abuse, has not been proposed in 2014. This is in stark contrast to the co-decision of the Judicial Committee during the examination of the notification of the coup d'état of the election in close relations in May of this year. A joint committee wrote in May of this year: ‘The Committee will stress the need for statistics on violence against children.’ During the processing of the Storing message, the Right and Advance parties proposed the following: ‘The government is asking for better and more continuous statistics on violence and abuse against children, including children as witnesses to violence.’ If the Right Party and the Advance Party believe it now in December that they meant in May – that is, the same thing in government as in opposition – I would remind you that there are still possibilities to change. These measures, which the Judicial Committee called for in May, shall be dealt with by the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture under their framework and are still under consideration in the Grand Duchy. I hope we can continue to be able to gather about the Justice Committee's desire for the government in May as proposed by the Red-Green Government, and prevent the new government from cutting $9 million. in the knowledge and statistics on deferred children and, in addition, in important local measures in the municipalities where the children live.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e830	The Right-Fremskritsparte-Government (Fremskritsparte-Government) builds its judicial policy on the everyday security needs of individuals. For the Right, it is important to build on this when political decisions are to be enforced by the administration. For the Right, it is therefore important that our judicial policy is based on a trust policy where the professional integrity of the police is a matter of course. That's why the police are given freedom under responsibility. The main task of the police is to ensure the security of the population. The public throughout the country must be guaranteed good and effective police preparedness. Close, adequately manned and competent police are essential in order to ensure safe communities. That is why Stortinget has increased the allocation to the police. At the same time, it is expected that the previously infinitely long range of targets with which the red-green government detailedly directed the police will be considerably reduced. The most important thing for the Right, and the Right in Government, is to ensure that a satisfactory task is done by the police through this trust and not through an infinite number of target parameters to be answered to the politicians, and, not least, to ensure that funds to the police are spent on police work and not on further bureaucracy. In order to ensure the criminal justice chain, it is therefore a goal for the Right to develop and further develop the criminal justice system in order to ensure rapid, good and effective criminal enforcement. This is why Stortingen has increased the allocation of criminal services. Today, when we face the challenge of over 98 p.m. prison coverage, and prison queues are increasing, the government needs to show some action. Over the last few years, housing queues have increased and maintenance capacity is too low in several parts of the country. Overall, the government increases its capacity by 70 places through expansions at Oslo prison and, as a temporary measure, uses double cells. We cannot, like the government that has resigned, show that the number of places has increased, as access to new cases and convictions on the other end increase more. For the Right in Government, it is important that the capacity plan drawn up earlier this year is properly anchored politically. Priority should be given to capacity extensions for both closed landfills and disposal sites in order to provide adequate settlement capacity. But most importantly, what we do to prevent crime. It's the most important thing we can do to make local communities safer. Then it's important that the government does the work of cooperating across the department. And it is particularly important to stimulate municipalities and communities to give priority to prevention work. The government considers the work of non-governmental organisations in preventing crime and reducing the amount of crime committed by former convicted offenders to be very important. It is not enough in parties to show that the work done by non-governmental organisations is important. It must also be shown in the budget. This makes this government and this increase by increasing the grant to non-governmental organisations. It is very good that there is a unanimous committee that supports the increase that the Right-Fremskrit party government with the cooperation parties the Left and Christian People's Party has promoted in this additional proposition to the state budget that is now being presented to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e845	Every day since July 22, 2011, we can see with our own eyes the results of the terrorist action against Norway and our democracy through empty buildings that still stand there as cold, dark spaces after a cruel act against land and people. Every day, we can see new security measures being implemented in and around the landfill building and the people elected. Our responsibility is to make Norway safer for everyone living in the country. Over the past eight years, the government of Stoltenberg has strengthened the work of social security and preparedness for people to experience security of life, health and important values. When a crisis arises, it shall be managed promptly and efficiently with sufficient competence at all levels. Against this background, the red-green government has given priority to more policemen, better training and together-cleaning in sharp assignments and participation in local emergency services. Since 2005, the government of Stoltenberg has increased its budget from 8.22 billion. DKK to 13.6 billion Nominal kr. The government of Stoltenberg increased the admission to Police College to 720 students – from 432 in 2007. Experience has approx. 95 pst. by the graduates, they have been employed in the police service. There were over 2,000 more annual works in the police and prosecution authority in October 2012 than when we joined in 2005. This is the legacy of the red-green government. Work on setting up an emergency services centre for police, emergency teams, dog patrols and police helicopters is essential for enhanced preparedness and faster response. It is essential that the blue-blue government does not delay this process and thus weaken operational preparedness in the foreseeable future. A new emergency centre will provide better use of resources and faster response times. The government of Stoltenberg had also ordered and received the police analysis, which is a thorough review of the Norwegian police force. The police analysis and all the hearings will form the basis for the further debate on how the Norwegian police can best be organised for the future. A strong neighbourhood police force is our basic preparedness, and presence is involved in the prevention of crime and not least in helping to solve crime. The members of the Workers' Party and the Centre's Committee will build on the good actions of the Red-Green Government, and we will continue the offensive draft budget for a better police and judicial policy in 2014. We have noticed that since the government of Stoltenberg presented its draft government budget for 2014, the economic space has increased due to changes in estimates. We have also noticed that the blue-blue government has chosen to cut the operating budgets of the departments, they are taking increased dividends from state companies and have budgeted for increased oil money use. It may be tempting for any opposition party to be tempted to spend more oil money, but unlike today's blue-blue government, we are busy using some of the increased space for action to strengthen important areas of well-being. We are engaged in a tax policy that secures jobs, strengthens the competitiveness of Norwegian industry, and contributes to economic cushioning, so that the differences between people are reduced and not increased. We are concerned that childcare costs should be lower for families with young children – not higher. We were concerned with free textbooks for young people – not higher study costs. We were concerned with a tax policy that would smooth out for those with the lowest income – not tax relief for those with the highest income and wealth. We want to use some of this space of action to strengthen the basic staffing of the police with 100 new million. NOK 15 million. kr to implement the necessary security measures by Oslo District Court. A secure society for all requires the integration of social security and preparedness considerations into all parts of society. The main objective is to provide increased security and social security, effective preparedness, operational capacity and capacity to deal with serious crime, crises and accidents — ensuring good learning on the basis of events and exercises carried out. The government of Stoltenberg did a thorough and important job in strengthening our civil protection through the process of acquiring 16 new and necessary rescue helicopters, and we have noticed that the blue-blue government has decided to open final negotiations with AgustaWestland. It is important that progress is not delayed and that the government takes the necessary action in this way. Good prevention is the best preparedness, and prevention is also averting future crime. Good interaction in civil society is important in order to achieve these objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e883	The government will strengthen the police and allocate about 100 million. kr more to increased police force than proposed by the Stoltenberg government – and with good reason. Visible police are important to the sense of security. In Oslo we now see that the police are intensifying the presence in the cityscape. It's a pleasure. The number of branches is now going down. The demands of society for rapid police response when incidents occur are inevitable. This is why the government strengthens inter alia: the emergency response team with 13 new posts. The police department is the oldest public office that still exists, and it has an 800-900-year history. Culture is attitudes over time, and the law enforcement and law enforcement community has had a long time to develop its culture. The July 22 report just points to culture, attitudes and leadership as the reason why a lot went wrong in the unimaginable tragedy that hit so many. The ability to follow up policy decisions was removed by the Gjørv Commission despite detailed target management in the justice sector. The problem is that there have been too many and partly conflicting goals. Then the targets lose their strength. Too many unclear objectives lead to competent officials and women being perceived to be deprived of the space for action and the confidence they need to have in order to do a good job. Therefore, the government will have fewer and clearer objectives in the justice sector. There shall be a clear link between what society wants to achieve in the justice sector and what one actually chooses to measure. The measurement for the purpose of the measurement has simply been discarded. Target management must be practised as intended, with the emphasis on delegation in order to achieve results anchored in policy objectives. The more detailed governance, the less room for action the institutions have to adapt to a demanding and changing reality. The implementation of the justice sector is and will be a management responsibility. This is essential for the fulfilment of the contract between voters and politicians. The enforceability of the justice sector is the instrument for putting the electoral will into practice. It is a matter of deep trust in our political system. Our legal system rests on trust – trust in non-discrimination and trust that matters will be dealt with quickly. That is why the government is particularly concerned with efficiency and quality in our courts. Norwegian courts are among the most effective in Europe. However, the Lawyers’ Rights have a negative development in the course of proceedings and do not meet the requirements laid down by the Storting. This is due to the budgets of the red-greens. This is what the bourgeois will turn around. Therefore, the operating budget of the Courts is strengthened by 15 million. kr in addition to the draft budget of the Stoltenberg Government. Civil defence is an invaluable resource of reinforcement in the event of accidents, crises and natural disasters. An overall committee believes that there is a need to modernise civil protection. Therefore, the government is increasing the appropriations for civil defence beyond the proposals of the Stoltenberg government. This tells us that the Right Party government will phase out old equipment and modernise civil defence at a much stronger pace than the red-green government was willing to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e906	For the Workers' Party, it is important to create a society with small differences, where people experience participation and belonging. We want a society where people have a high level of trust in each other and in the powers of government. Effective and comprehensive justice policy is a prerequisite for creating such a society. It shall ensure security, legal certainty, fair penalties, good prevention, good rehabilitation and prevention of disasters and terrorism. The red-green government took many important steps to achieve this, and Norway is a safe country to live in. The number of police students, the level of penalties for serious crimes and forcible offences increased. That government put in place measures for violent women and children and strengthened the position of victims of violence. The threshold for deporting EEA citizens who commit crime was lowered. In particular, the government was concerned with the relationship between growth and risk situations. Prevention has become better and wider. Criminal services cooperate better with Nav, drug treatment is included in prisons, and children of prisoners have received more attention. Winning crimes recorded and the number of young offenders have fallen. Reconciliation queues have been reduced and prison sites have increased. This is what we did to create a safer society: a society that prevents young people from becoming criminals, a society where the family is a safe framework – not an arena for violence and abuse – a society with severe and fair penalties. That doesn't mean that the Workers' Party believes everything is very well. It is important for us to develop the justice sector in line with the current challenges in society. For this reason, we will address international and cross-border crime, the exploitation of vulnerable groups — especially women and children — labour-related crime, social dumping, related measures — in particular measures for children of prisoners — and settlement capacity. The new blue-blue government uses $4 billion. kr more than the previous government. Some of the money they use to put two criminals in the same cell, but they're postponing the biggest and most important investment; building a new prison, and they're cutting the fine system, an alternative compensation for those who can't pay fines. There is only one solution to capacity problems: new prison — as soon as possible. The majority create considerable uncertainty related to the important effort to reduce the queue. The red-green government concluded that one or two new prisons were to be built in Agder – 300 new places. Today, the parties to the government cannot join the majority opinion on moving forward with this, and it is strange. I will give tribute to the Christian People's Party which did not follow the minority in this matter. The government's position creates uncertainty in Agder. In 2012, Åse Michaelsen was ready to revitalise the plans for prison in Agder. I would like to challenge the Council of State: can he clarify to the Grand Council whether the plans for prison in Agder are parked? I notice that in the supplementary proposition there are no signs of not going further with the construction of prisons in Agder. I therefore interpret it as being the position and the majority comment that apply. Building prison takes time. That is why it is regrettable that the majority is showing a lack of power in this matter. The majority answer is the doubling of cells, which they think will give 70 new places. But the majority is cutting 15.5 million. kr to the fine-soneing scheme. It is gratifying to read that a few days ago, the minister in our country pointed to our proposal for a penalty settlement as a good measure: ‘Bunding service is a fairer option for persons who cannot afford to pay the fine.’ That is what the Council of State says, and I fully agree with him. Therefore, it is incomprehensible that the government cuts in the measure. The penalty zone frees up about 50 places. Thus, much of the argument for doubling falls away. Why is there a bad idea of duplication, and why did the Stoltenberg government leave this measure? First of all, it means that a first-time zone, for example. a 21-year-old boy who cannot pay the cure risks being put in the same cell as a multi-time resident with a serious criminal background. They have to divide cells 18 to 20 hours a day. It's a criminal school arrangement. It's the reverse of rehabilitation and prevention, and this is what the minority will spend money on. More oil money has not been spent on the major investment challenges of criminal justice. Regrettably, the power of action is reduced to replace the soning of fines with doubles. It's more expensive and worse and a bad trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e937	The Progress Party went to the elections for increased security and a strengthened police force. The Progress Party has long been concerned about the development and lack of resources in the police, and in many ways the country is facing insecurity. That is why I am pleased that we have now received a government that shows power of action, and a Minister of Justice who has shown that it benefits – only that is political will. But it must be emphasised that it takes more than a few weeks to change eight years with failed red-green justice policy. Rome was not built in one day, so we have to have some patience. Nevertheless, an allocation of 90 million is required. kr only to the police in addition to what the previous government presented in the budget, a considerable increase, and can make major changes. The number of dollars is not decisive in itself, but what they are used for, and how. Among other things, you can now buy out jobs that can be filled by others and civilians, which the Council of State also had in mind. But unfortunately, the aftermath is massive throughout the justice sector. Prisons are packed with 98 pst. coverage, and it is enough to refer to the Gjørv Commission and the Police Analysis to illustrate enormous challenges facing Norwegian police. Despite the rapid increase in waiting time in the courts, the previous government has practised a stoppage of employment in recent years. Get it, whoever can. The government, with Minister of Justice Anundsen at the head, has addressed these challenges immediately. Through only three hectic budget weeks, they have managed to free 88 new prisons, worth 90 million. More to the police, secure the courts 15 million. have provided 1 800 more foreclosures of criminals by non-residents and asylum-seekers who have received a final rejection. I can say with my heart that I am proud of what the Minister of Justice has shown in a short time. I am proud that the government has taken these challenges seriously, and I am proud that Norway is now becoming a safer country to live in.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e950	The word ‘prevention’ may, at first sight, appear to be a motto, a word that resonates with slogans of political programmes or endless and pointless reports and investigations. To show what prevention can actually mean, I was going to describe a scenario that could end in two ways. A young man needs money quickly. He sees a lady standing at a mini-bank. The plan is to grab a bag and run. He goes by certain steps towards the lady. He doesn't see any police. Knowing that the police are not around – that they may be 15 minutes away, maybe half an hour away – he chooses to hit the lady, grab the purse and run. The safety of the Ransoffer may be lost forever. The taximeter for society begins to run seriously: tens of thousands of dollars for police investigation, tens of thousands of dollars for custody prison, hundreds of thousands of dollars for defense, actorate and legal equipment, hundreds of thousands of dollars for detention and aftercare, tragedy for victims, family and neighbourhood — and for the perpetrator. A criminal act that is being executed means lost opportunities for the individual, lost opportunities for society and not least many, many dollars that could have been used for completely different purposes. So let's change the story a little bit. Just before the young man goes to rob the lady, he sees the police a hundred yards down the street. Indeed, they are involved in situation-oriented prevention in this area. He gives up the search and disappears. This performance costs society zero dollars, and the lady gets to keep both her purse and her sense of security. Prevention, of course, does not just come in forms like this. Effective prevention may come just as easily from the Nightclubs or the good teacher as from the police. However, we cannot escape the fact that the police have a very special role in crime prevention. They have a wide range of methods and cooperate with a number of agencies to prevent crime before it happens. Everybody makes a living on that. Our goal, whether we're in opposition or position, must be to enable the police to do this even more and better. One hundred million. kr extra until the police are an important step on the way. A police force that gets fewer targets, fewer detailed directives, but more trust and freedom under responsibility will be the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e965	It is no secret that the Oslo citizens have suffered greatly under the red-green government, especially in the field of justice policy. In Oslo, we have pointed out that we feel safer living in New York. We've had a sweep, we've had a wave of rape, and we've had a little police in the streets. That's why we're very happy now. The new government prioritises the most important thing, namely strong police force. Security in everyday life is an overall goal for the new government, and it makes us incredibly happy in Oslo. The budget strengthens the fight against crime, provides more police force and better preparedness. When our new Minister of Justice both takes urgent action against crime in Oslo, has long-term and good plans and crowns it with an incredibly good budget, we are happy. It is also important to clarify that the new government focuses on preventing radicalisation, and that is also an important area. In Norway we have been very good at repair, but not as good at measures. With the new government, therefore, there will be a commitment to prevention. Measures to strengthen the whole criminal chain will also contribute to greater security in the capital. When we even see the Minister of Justice out on a police patrol, it gives us good hope, and we know that we are well cared for. This promises well.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e977	I would like to pick up some of the things that have been said during the debate. The council said about capacity building in criminal custody that nothing has happened during the previous government. That's not correct. Under the previous government, it increased by 750 places. The council also said that he did not fully understand the problem of doubling prison cells, because one also under the red-green government was running it all the way up to 2008. But that's exactly what's the point: an end to it in 2008 precisely because it was contrary to professional advice, precisely because one saw that having duplicated cells didn't work. Nevertheless, one will now start with it again, and one will base it on something that one went away from. The second thing I noticed during the debate was how the Council of State answered the question from the Central Party, because the Central Party asked a good question about job guarantee for police students. The Council of State replied that it is difficult for a Council of State to provide such a guarantee. That's exactly what the Council of State has in it. That's what the previous government always said, that you can't give a guarantee like that. So I would like to welcome the Council of State after this foundation. The council also said that what this government is doing is securing enough money to add the police students. Then I would like to remind you that this has a doctor inside the budget from the previous government. So the police students were added with the previous budgets, under the previous government. I am very pleased that the Council of State has kept to the budget of the previous government in this area and thus also kept up with the previous government's policy of securing the addition of police students. When it comes to the emergency centre: that discussion has waved back and forth both in this room and elsewhere. The Council of State claims that one has an unclear starting point, that the basis for the decision is weak. But the reality is that the things that the Council of State is drawing up to base its new position, that is, plot size and building size, are things that were also known when the previous government put forward its budget. It means that it was also discussed and assessed when the previous budget was presented. What we have then asked questions both in this debate and in previous debates is: What does the Council of State have in this area that provides the basis for a new assessment? We have not received a response to what these new information are. What we get, on the other hand, is ambiguity and dissociation from the Council of State. The fact is that the Progress Party – in the evening post on August 27th this year – was out and said that they wanted to fight for emergency services already then, and now we see this rematch in the form of the government council's elusive response.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e994	In the 2009 election campaign, I attended a street meeting with the slogan ‘Take Street Back’ in Greenland, Oslo. The area wasn't random. Representatives from residents and businesses witnessed the abduction they felt in the face of crime in the area. One of the most descriptive incidents was that the local post office had called the police because criminals used the correspondence in the post office to weigh drugs. The police response had been: Yes, is it forbidden to weigh anything other than a letter, then? This was the everyday life of the inhabitants and of us who travel there. The strange thing was that the organizer of the street meeting was the Workers’ Party – with his own Minister of Justice present. So, after four years of being responsible for the judiciary, the Workers' Party was to ‘take the streets back’. But then it was a campaign. Nearly a year later, the then Minister of Justice was out there and told the police to give priority to financial crime and to deprioritising drug trafficking, begging, prostitution and nightlife violence, which was contrary to the Oslo Police Strategy. The former station manager at the Greenland Police Station called the red-green priorities for ‘jump and jump’ thinking. Every time the media wrote about a matter, it was the matter that was to be given priority. And we saw the results: Waves came and went and priorities as well. The police have had too many objectives and too few resources to meet all the objectives. I am very pleased that the Minister of Justice has been clear in his message – the police should be given confidence, responsibility and the ability to carry out their demanding tasks. If we are to face crime with a quick and clear response, we must provide enough resources throughout the criminal chain. That is why I very much welcome the fact that this government not only strengthens the police but also the prosecution, the courts and the criminal justice system. Violence in close relationships has been referred to by the opposition as an area in which they seized. They shall be commended for putting this important matter on the agenda, but that is not enough. The action plan of the previous government indicated more good intentions than effective implementation. Of the 45 measures presented during the election campaign, much was to be developed, updated, revised, developed, visible, assessed, strengthened and continued. Sometimes things were also to be carried out, such as: awarding a prize for good models of cooperation and coordination. And not least, a web portal on violence in close relationships was to be established, and an emergency call for victims of violence was to be considered – but only after the National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress had identified the need. And I thought the alarm phone was 112. Also, this is an area where I have faith in this government's focus on punishing the perpetrator. Prices for cooperation and coordination are of little help if the rapist is not penalised and is not given the opportunity to carry out his or her destructive actions. The Right Party and the Advance Party have often been called law-and-order parties, and in recent years we have seen the results when law and order are more hopeful and sprung than long-term strategies to secure the individual and thus society as a whole. It's not about money, it's about efficiency and results, and here I'm convinced that this government is going to deliver.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e1011	As we in the Center Party have a somewhat plentiful reputation in some environment when it comes to our relationship with predators, I'm going to be careful to compare other parties to just predators. Nevertheless, the temptation is too great to avoid using the cover ‘up like a lion and down like a skin trap’ when we listen to this debate. To go from being a party that went high on the path and criticised the red-green government for everything and nothing, the Progress Party is now keeping it comfortably low. In many cases, it sounds as if the Minister of Justice has inherited our arguments as to why the situation is what he is – and that, of course, seems to me to be both embarrassing and giving security. The councils still shoot at the previous government and make it like he's inherited a bankruptcy bank, and that's what I'm responding to. The representative, Hadia Tajik, expressed this well, because it is not all wrong in the last eight years – with the big additions, especially before the police, but also before the other etats, and with the results achieved. In particular, I want to highlight the focus that was seen on selected in close relationships – choice and abuse, but also killing. What I could imagine was that the Council of State and the members of the Judicial Committee from the Right and the Progress Party could express what was – in one way – the most evil of our policies, which they are now forced to throw at the boat and have to change completely. I'm happy for all the changes that happen if it leads to better results, so it's good to know what it's going to be. I hope we're all a few that the most important thing is what we're going to do in the future. And this shooting between us -- whether they call them predators or not -- one shouldn't necessarily do in all contexts. Even if I was tempted to use it instead – with up like a lion and down like a skin trap – it is in any case, as I see it, okay about the parties that have criticized the most strongly the grips that I think have been both good and necessary, now either on one side can continue with the change in rhetoric that has been, and moderates, or say much clearer what to do in the future that, in the event of a change, will produce much better results than the red-green government has.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e1020	I would like to say a little about the Data Storage Directive and the importance of implementing it with related legislative changes – not least to ensure that the police have tools to fight serious crime at a time when technological developments are fast. The government announced in the supplementary proposal to the State budget that they wish to postpone the implementation of the Directive by six months. The Government justifies its intention to propose a cost-sharing model between the eco-providers and the State of Stortinget in spring 2014. In addition, the government states that, among other things: will provide the opportunity to assess the Directive in the light of the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union, expected in February 2014. According to the Government, the proposal for a deferral of data storage rules means that the amendments implementing the Directive can enter into force on 1 July 2014 and that the aim is to ensure that the storage obligation applies from one year after the implementation of the amendment, i.e.: from 1 July 2015. The Working Party is committed to implementing the Data Storage Directive as quickly as possible. In this context, I refer to the agreement that was established between the Right and Workers' Party during the last period of implementation of the Directive. I do not want to have a completely new debate on the Data Storage Directive, but I would like to point out that we have a law that leads to a more effective fight against crime and that strengthens privacy, which in turn means that the police are given the necessary tools to investigate, clear and prosecute serious criminal offences, such as terrorist acts and organised crime. I would like to point out once again that there is traffic data that says something about who has communicated with who, where the communication has taken place and when and how it is to be stored. It is important to stress that the content of the communication should not be stored. The security, legal certainty and privacy of individuals are also ensured by the introduction of new and strict rules for the processing of traffic data. I hope that we will continue to be able to stay at a good level when we discuss what the Data Storage Directive is and is not. I am pleased that the setting confirms the reconciliation between the Right and the Working Party. At the same time, it is important that the implementation of the data storage rules is not delayed beyond what has been notified in the additional proposal. I am also very pleased that the Right Party and the Workers' Party agree on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e1043	The size has increased the appropriations for the Main Rescue Center by 9 million. Compared to the red-green budget proposals. We are moving in a completely different way today than before, and we also have expectations that society will set up with the necessary help and be a safety valve when needed. The Norwegian rescue service is a national service, based on the cooperative principle. This implies that public enterprises with relevant resources are obliged to participate in rescue operations. When we also know that the number of events involving the Main Rescue Center has more than doubled in the last ten years, and that the funds of the Main Rescue Centre have not been sufficient in the last few years for them to have done their job satisfactorily, we need to take this seriously. Now that the Stortinge increases the allocations to the Main Rescue Centre, it is based on confidence that the Main Rescue Centre will be able to perform its function as a coordinating and leading entity, on which the entire interoperable rescue service rests, and on the expectation that they will have the opportunity to participate in several activities and exercises, either under their own direction or as others take the initiative – just to do themselves better to do their job and the job we expect them to do. The Central Rescue Centre will also have the opportunity to strengthen its staff through this increased allocation. Therefore, this additional allocation is important for Storting, precisely in order to strengthen the operational capability of the Main Rescue Centre to manage and coordinate rescue operations, to increase the oversight of local rescue centres and to perform important interoperability tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e1058	Some positive things can be said about the inheritance after the red-green ones. But the situation in the higher prosecution authority is unfortunately difficult to say much positive about. The description that I am now going to give is unfortunately little uplifting and unfortunately completely real. For many years, prosecutors have not had enough resources to carry out their core tasks properly. The reasons for this are many. There has been a significant increase in the number of legal days. It has its background in the fact that the cases have become more complicated, there are several defendants per case and evidence is increasing in line with new research methods and new technology. At the same time, there has been a formidable intensification of the demands for legal precision from the European Court of Human Rights. In addition, they have difficulty recruiting the best heads. The higher prosecution authority shall pay the costs so far as they are concerned to the detriment of competent staff. The same thing happens because of high work pressure. When jobs are published, they very often have few applicants. In addition, the budgetary situation has been unpredictable for many years. In the last three years, the higher prosecution authority has not actually been able to count on money to operate for the whole year. In our case even some legal cases in the second half of the year had to be dealt with on the condition that the prosecution authority received extra money from the revised state budget. As far as I know, this has never happened before in recent Norwegian history. We need an prosecution authority that can recruit from the best lawyers and hold the best minds. To put it a little simple but very descriptive way: when society is to put heavily criminal people at risk, we can't risk to stand still without a top layer. I am therefore pleased that the appropriations for the higher prosecution authority are now being increased, and that all parties seem to agree that the situation has not been sustainable. I am also pleased that a majority in this Chamber have joined a note that underlines the importance of following closely the budgetary situation of the higher prosecution authority, with the aim of providing for long-term underfinancing in future budgets. There are hardly any other items on the justice budget where so little increases can mean so much.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e1077	I also wanted to comment on some of the debate. I think it has now been a good debate. I will again raise the theme if selected in close relationships. I'm going to talk a lot and often about this problem, as this is something both me and the Labour Party are very concerned about. In the Workers' Party's Group, we have a cross-fractional working group, if you can call it that, working specifically on this topic. These include: because we think it is unlikely important that we see it in the health of the problem. There are great expectations for the big messages and the action plan that apply to the coming years, and I would like the Minister of Justice – if he has time in his speech – to say a little about what he thinks about this area. Last year, the Ministry of Justice, which is elected in close relations, costs society. In a way, the great cost here is the pure human play, but when you get a number of it, it tends to get a different sound in politics. The mapping showed that selected in close relation costs between 4.5 billion. kr and 6 brd. kr per year. I'm afraid that might even be too low. This means that efforts in this field must be stepped up further. I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to commend the Ministry of Justice, which has recently provided a new guide to local action plans. I believe very strongly that, despite strengthening our work at national level, we are dependent on doing something locally. The red-green government is very strongly encouraged by local action plans. I hope the new government will follow up on this. I would like to pay tribute to the Christian People's Party and Kjell Ingolf Ropstad's contributions, which had a strong focus on this work. Just as I said in my first post: I hope that at least the Christian People's Party will be able to help prevent them from cutting me now looking at the scope and children's talks that, as I said, are on the family and cultural committee. Finally, I just want to get up a little bit about being nuanced. I must say that the post from the representative Langemyr was characterized by being something black-and-white. If we had had a totally misguided judicial policy in the last eight years, we would not have seen the results that many have had in the debate today. I would also like to pay tribute to the Minister of Justice, who, I believe, had a more nuanced approach to the situation in the justice sector, which he is now taking over. Finally, a short comment on Nordby Lunde's perception of an alarm phone for children and young people: it has been a very successful trial project, as we did permanently. I haven't heard any criticisms before, so it was new.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e1098	It is sad that the Right-Fremskrit party government lacks action when it comes to the realisation of one or two new prisons in the South. The comments from the Right and Advance Party in the setting we are dealing with here today are in this way sad reading for everyone who had hoped for rapid progress in the matter. Especially sad must it be for the representatives of the Right and the Advance Party from the South who have worked for a new prison, or new prisons, and who seem to have to lubricate themselves with considerable patience. In particular, this must be frustrating for the representative Åse Michaelsen of the Progress Party, who has been very clear on the need for a new prison in the South. I am pleased that the Christian People's Party is at the note of the Red-Green parties in the vote, where it is clear to go further with drafts to clarify whether one should have ‘one or two new prisons to replace and increase existing prison capacity’ in the South with a total capacity of 300 places. But this illustrates that the representative Robstad and the Christian People's Party have little influence over the new government – a government he has so fervently wanted for so long. Southern countries need one or more new prisons. I'm very pleased with the basis the previous government put in that way. We were well on our way to realize it. I also expect the new government to follow up a majority in the Justice Committee – and probably a majority here in the Chamber – who want a predictable and rapid implementation of new prisons, or two new prisons, in the South.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e1107	Finally, I would like to say that I think he has to reread the setting, because there is nothing there to cancel the construction of some prisons. Rather, it is the opposite; that we are concerned that we should have a rapid progress in creating long-term solutions for prisons. I want to correct an obvious error – there were several, but there is one I think I should correct. The representative Tajik said that I claimed that nothing has happened in the area of criminal law under the previous government. I guess what I said was that there's nothing clear that we're going to solve the challenges we're now facing, and as the previous government knew we were going to stand up to. It's considerably more precise. The representative Klingen said something about lions and traps etc. The problem is that the legacy of the red-greens is not just bad script, unfortunately, but incredibly many major problems. She encourages to make some of those problems visible. I've already faced the challenges of criminal justice, which are very big and difficult to solve. There has been no need to focus on the criminal justice chain. There have been too little appropriations for the police, the prosecution and the courts. Emergency preparedness has been too low, and youth places are not in place in the East. There are a number of things that are quite serious, and as the red-green government leaves behind. So I know, and I know that things take time, but the former government party that the representative of the Klinge had 417 weeks to solve these challenges. The sitting Right Party government has had seven weeks. Then again, I have to pay a little visit to Henriksen's representative. She says there's one solution, and there's another prison. Why didn't the Workers' Party do anything about it when they were in government? Why isn't something done to get that building started? Why has it come so far? And why do you expect all the problems to be solved in seven weeks when you couldn't solve them at 417? It'll be a bit of a strange debate. In addition, the representative Henriksen is wrong when she says that 70 new prisons should be created by duplication. There are 50 new prisons when doubled. There are 20 new places in Oslo that are not on the double, and there are 18 places because we use increased purchases of §12 places, as we call it, that are about drugs and psychiatry. That's 88, but with that distribution. It probably illustrates some of the difference between the Right Party Government and the previous government when she believes it is a bad deal to replace some open or electronic control points with 88 closed locations. There are closed spaces that are needed. There are closed spaces we need to make sure, for example. access to multiple custody sites. That is why we have also stopped the project that the red-green government would put in place, with electronic control for custodians, i.e. a sort of old-fashioned house arrest scheme for those who commit so serious crime that they have to be held in custody. Fortunately, there are new costs there too.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e1118	Now the president has heard worse language than "heaven", so we let it pass as part of the Norwegian vocabulary.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e1121	I almost think it's a little sweet in this debate on justice to hear representatives of the red-greens now think that the new government is actually implementing what you had to do yourself, but that you never got. It's a little sweet to hear that you're discouraged about that happening, but that's what's the point of a powerful government: you implement what you went to elections on, and after seven weeks you've shown a new direction and clear priorities. We've even done so many good priorities that the socialists had to raise a hundred million more overnight to match our budget, so obviously it's not that much of what we've presented today. I used my post to show what the status is in a number of areas, which the Minister of Justice did in an exemplary way now. When you try to talk about the situation in Agder in terms of prison capacity, I record that the representatives of the Workers' Party in both Agder counties want to say hello home and probably want a look-up in their fatherland friend. But the Progress Party is not just concerned with Agder. The right-hand party government is occupied by the prison capacity in Norway. The solution of the working party is clearly 300 more places in Agder, but it helps incredibly little when we have 1,400 people waiting in the queue. That is why the Right and Advance Party in the Committee have submitted a comment where we: ‘will highlight the importance of overall increases in prison capacity and in areas with major under-covering challenges, for example in the south and the districts.’ While the Socialists in the Workers' Party say hello to Agder, the Right-Fremskrit party government wants to say hello to Norway and that we intend to address the challenges with the prison capacity. The sociologists also show an incredible concern about the fact that some prisoners now have to share a room – divide a cell. There's an incredible concern: this is gonna be bad, you guys! Imagine if you had shown the same care to all the elderly nurses in this country who have had to share double rooms in nursing homes for decades because you have not been able to expand the care for the elderly. Now we're going to have 50 doubles – some prisoners have to split double rooms, and then you're incredibly caring and you think this is sad for the inmates. Well, the prisoners in Norwegian prisons are in prison because they have committed crime and violated Norway's laws, and therefore it is good that we now have a government that is capable of action and that shows that they actually believe that those who are going to zone are going to zone and that we are going to have room in prison. If it has to be done with double rooms, it has to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e1136	I must say that I think the representative Leirstein is pretty cute when he's standing on the pulpit, and that's a good post from his side, with a lot of humor. I also find it exciting that Leirstein has embraced the representative of the Christian People's Party as a socialist. These are new tones from the new government partners. But more seriously, there is a lot we agree on in this budget. The Council of State was in the middle of it, and we've been into it here in several articles: the main direction of justice policy is in fact retained. Where we separate layers, there is a lack of action. Where we separate layers, it helped us to actually act and start more implementation based on the signals from and the instruments of the previous government. They choose the new government to ignore. It's about duplication, it's about prison, it's about preparedness – to mention something. The previous government had plans and investigations in place that were almost so that the new government could go further with it, but they park it. And they haven't made one credible argument here in the hall because they're actually going to carry out what they're saying. The Council of State reassures us that they will, of course, build prisons. Yes, we fully agree on that, but what is the reality is that the Council of State is parking the investigation that is actually there, and stopping the further progress in this, in the same way that he, or the department, is doing in connection with the Emergency Response Centre. I'm not going to characterize Leirstein's mention of doubling cells. I just want to say that for the Workers' Party, it is important that the measures taken in the criminal sector actually have an effect – they should have an effect. If the Council of State can show that doubling cells anywhere in the world results in less crime, then of course one should listen to it, but I'm familiar with it, there are no reports that suggest that by doubling it becomes less crime, that there is less reoccurrence crime, or that young people get a restitution where they can spend all their time on rehabilitation. Then I would like to say that I was very pleased with the article for Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, which was very concerned with prevention. But I'm a little skeptical when he joins the dual scheme, because it's about rehabilitation on, not the first, but the second level. It's an important factor you don't have to ignore when you're going to make sure that we don't get criminals who learn to do new criminal acts after staying in a double cell.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e1149	To the latter speaker I just want to replicate that doubling is not a measure to reduce crime directly. It's an act we take to get more people into custody, to get those who have committed crime out of the street, and to deprive them of the opportunity to play evidence and commit new crimes – that's the reason. There are many good wordings in the vote. That's a lot of agreement. I want to bring up a few things that not so many people have been interested in, that is, what is going on. There is no other government in recent times, at least not as I know, which has received so much professional criticism for the job they did – or, I would say, did not do – in the police field, as the outgoing government: first at the July 22 Commission, then at the police analysis. This is now on the new government's table. We're going to do the job to strengthen the police, strengthen security. We're going to do that with great zeal, and the budget is the first step on that path. Today we have 27 police districts, and we have 354 posts. The outgoing government has handed over a police officer who says that under 4 pst. of the 354 posts have daily staff – under 4 p.m. More than half of the police professionals in the police districts and in these offices — less than half — work on the police’s core tasks, the police analysis tells us. It's a massive problem this government takes over after the resignation. It requires more implementation than what we've seen in the last eight years. The note on the number of prisons in the regions of the South and the Agder counties has been mentioned. I would like to remind those representatives who have been up and complained to the current government that if you read the previous year's legal settings, you will see that there is not a single place from the red-green government that you have to build two prisons. It's only in your last year that you promise – yes, then you might be able to build two prisons. Do you know how much it actually costs? The prison in Halden cost over a billion dollars. kr. Then, in a position from the Justice Committee, you'll hear from those parties that now we might be able to spend another 1 billion. kr in the field of justice – when we have so many unsolved problems we have to do anyway. It shows a sense of responsibility and implementation of this government that it was high time to get into the government offices.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e1160	I would like to remind Mr Henriksen that a prison may not be a little suitable as a district policy instrument. The representative Klinge asked what the new direction of the Right Party government will be, compared to the Stoltenberg government. That answer really gives the Stoltenberg government itself on page 32 of the proposition. There, the Stoltenberg government writes that the direction of justice policy in 2014 has been determined on the basis of the recommendations made by the Gjørv Commission, in particular in terms of security and preparedness. I don't want to use the word neglect sin, but if anyone had used it, I wouldn't argue strongly against it. The representative, Hadia Tajik, is very much in charge of the Emergency Response Centre. It is also the government, and there was also former Minister of Justice Faremo in the process. We are not going to ignore the fact that the State Council of Faremo was under considerable pressure in the matter, in order to show the power of action. There are certain aspects of the location of the emergency centre that need to be reconsidered: there are noise issues and there are significant land conflicts with other important public activities. Let us not put ourselves in such a position that the speed of loading is also in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e1169	I think the Right needs to attend a group meeting on prison in the South. I'm recording that representatives from the Right here have a considerable scepticism for that. There are completely different signals from what we have seen from the representatives of the district, but we may be wrong. Otherwise, I can reassure the Council of State that I can read. It's a little sad to sit and read directly from the setting, but it's really just to go into the setting and see that the government parties have a much more general note about prison in South Africa than the Red-Green and Christian People's Party has. I expect the Council of State to believe that the representative Ropstad can read, and the representative Ropstad has joined us in our remark, which is much more binding, and has a clearer progress on the construction of new prisons or new prisons in the South. Speaking of greeting home – the former opposition, which has now become a position, has been quite nice to greet home. I think it's actually our duty as district representatives to also care for our counties and our part of the country. I'm not ashamed to do that from this room, but of course it has to be balanced, and of course it has to take into account the total needs. But anyone who knows the situation in South Africa knows that there is obviously a great need, and that it also comes up in a national context. I also thought it was nice to hear the representative, Leirstein, use the metaphor about the socialists – the bad socialists – it was repeated up to several times. I am not so sure that the representative Ropstad thinks it is so nice to be joined with us in that characteristic – he is the one who has joined us in the comment on prison in South Africa. What we can say about prison in the South is that the current Right Party government does not show sufficient power of action in relation to the Red-Green and Christian People's Party. I encourage and challenge the Council of State to be clear – and I expect the Council of State to follow the majority of the population and the majority of the committees and to be far more forward-looking and offensive – in terms of progress, and not to hide behind the general comment of the Right and Advance Party of the Justice Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e1180	It is rare that I have been mentioned so much in the third person as now – from both the one side and the other. I need to speak on the comment on the new prison in Agder. I have to say that I am so sorry that, based on the debate, it becomes more district policy and health home than it actually is. That's why I want to de-dramatise the difference of note that lies in the committee setting. If one listens well to what is said, and looks at what is in the rest of the committee’s comment – where it is clearly pointed out that there is a lag in capacity, and that one wants this to be anchored in the Storting, as the red-green government, after repeated references and remarks from the opposition at that time, did not want – one also sees that there will be a treatment of this in the Storting in a short time. Both the opposition and the government parties stress in their comments that one wants to focus specifically on the Agder region. That being said, I would say that the Christian People's Party is on the note because this is taken from the proposition. There is a current document - if nothing has been changed in the plugin proposal. And finally, the Big thing is, so in the Christian People's Party, we are very sure that we can influence in some things. In any case, the Stortinget will ultimately decide in the case. Once I'm in the pulpit, I also want to comment on a couple of other things. I would like to comment on the debate between the Labour Party and the government parties, but now it is my privilege to be in constructive opposition, so I can be in the middle of it. To a few things that I think are important. I am pleased that the Committee points out that more work needs to be done on trafficking in human beings. Here the government has good wording in the government platform. This, I think, is a work that we in the Committee must take seriously, for this is the slavery of our time. What we say was abolished hundreds of years ago is real. There are more people than ever that are exploited as slaves in various forms. That's why I'm glad we're together to get to grips with that work. Nor can I avoid commenting on the issue of rescue helicopters. After hearing Mr. Asphjell's comments, I became somewhat uncertain. I share the impatience – The Storting made a decision a long time ago, which has gone like a foal. But I would like to stress that corruption must be taken seriously. We are responsible for the decisions which must finally be taken. That is why I am pleased that the Council of State also stresses that he takes this seriously and will follow it up. The essay in the Evening Post today, which shows that former top leaders in AgustaWestland are under administrative investigation — or charge, as some call it — is at least worrying me. Therefore, it is important to point out from the Christian People's Party that when the Storting is going to make the final decision, we must be able to trust that the government has done a good enough job with regard to the acquisition and signing of the contract.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e1195	I had the pleasure of sitting on the same committee as the representative de Ruiter in the period 2005-2009, so I am not in doubt about his ability to read. I guess that's not what I mentioned either. That's the ability to understand what you're reading, you might wonder on some occasions. In this respect, I think the dedramatisation of the representative of Ropstad was in place. A few more things. One relates to the representative Henriksen, who said something like – I have written it down – the red-green government gave up plans that were close enough for them to be implemented. I guess that illustrates the problem. The fact that something is similar so that it can be implemented means that it cannot be implemented. That's what we're struggling with – on the prison side, in terms of emergency services, and in a number of other areas. Here I think the representative Henriksen and I actually agree more than the representative Henriksen might have thought. So to the juvenile punishment, which over time has been a recurring theme. Here, the red-green parts, especially the Working Party, spend a lot of time saying that the allocation is cut by 2 million. kr, and that it will lead to some depriority of the juvenile sentence. I have said several times before from Stortinget's pulpit that the need was reduced by 2 million. kr. That's why we reduced it. In order for us to be able to confirm this once and for all: I have received a letter that I would like to quote from: ‘The budget requirement for the implementation of the Youth Penalty was reduced by SEK 2 million as a result of the fact that we do not have the employment of youth coordinators in place before 1 April 2014. This will not affect the implementation of the Youth Penalty introduced as planned on 1 July 2014. With regards, the Secretariat of the Councils of Conflict Per Andersen Director’» I hope that the workers' party representatives who do not accept my word are pleased that the Director of the Conflict Council shares such an opinion. I also think it is in place to boast of the commitment that the representative Awake! shows to the work against violence in close relations. This is a major and major problem. I think there is a cross-political consensus on the importance of continuing focus in this area. This government is concerned that there should be broad cooperation in the Grand Duchy on this matter. These are difficult things. It is a demanding and still very taboo issue, which we, as political leaders, must take seriously. It does this government, and I perceive it so that also the previous government did it and did a lot of good. I also remember Odd Einar Dørum, who was actually the first Minister of Justice to raise this taboo area on the political agenda. It's been an engagement that many governments have shared, and that this government still shares.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e1221	In this debate, the Progress Party has tried to give the impression that they are taking over a justice sector in crisis. Therefore, I would like to take the opportunity to perhaps highlight some of the points that I had in my main post. The red-green government has strengthened preparedness. The new government has come to the table as regards both emergency services, the development of emergency networks throughout the country and, in particular, strengthening the terrorist legislation. The new government has also inherited the bet of the times on the police. As I mentioned before, we've trained and hired record-breaking policemen. In October 2012, there were over 2,000 more annual police and prosecution work than when we took over in 2005. It says something about the legacy this government has received. In connection with the Ropstad case of rescue helicopters: I have asked the Minister of Justice a question about the matter in order to stress the seriousness, not because there are rumors of corruption, but because this company is accused of corruption, because in the near future there may be a judgment, and because it is important that Norway's reputation relating to the anti-corruption work – which the red-green government was concerned about – is taken seriously by the new government. The previous government, through a new dispute law, provided quicker, cheaper and simpler dispute settlements, and strengthened the Court. The Minister of Justice has inherited from the previous government a historic commitment to violence in close relations and violence against children. A nationwide device for those living in fear is in place. To this end, with prevention and the fact that the Oslo people have suffered under the red-green government because there is a lot of violence and threats: I have to say that prevention is both treated and adopted by the various local governments around the country. Trondheim municipality, such as have reduced the closing time for nightclubs, has resulted in less violence, less crime and a strengthened police force. It is about the fact that municipal governments with a red-green majority regard prevention as an important measure to reduce violence and crime. When Leirstein talks about single rooms, he speaks as if one was on the fast route and would choose between interior cabins and exterior cabins with sea views. When we talk about single rooms, single cells, in prison, it's about giving those who are going to pay their penalty, both security and security. However, it is not least about preventing young people, new ones – let’s say – from being affected by those who have been in prison several times. This is about prevention, about how we are going to deal with it. I would like to remind you that the red-green government created 750 new prisons. If the blue-blue government is going to continue this work during this period, it has to create 2 places per week.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e1242	The representative Jenny Klinge has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e1245	The representative, Leirstein, minimizes the unfortunate consequences of double cells in prison and clearly shows, in my opinion, that he does not know the situation within the walls. This is not just about the rights of the inserts, it's about the same amount of security – for both the inserts and the inserts. When two sit together on one cell, there is a greater risk that the one person will be recruited into a criminal environment where crime is more serious than the other. One shouldn't be joking that older people live in double rooms, and maybe some of us are going to do it. When I'm 90 years old, I don't know if the negative impact I can have on my neighbor – although I've never been so hard to make up for over time – is as bad as the criminal can have on the neighbor in prison. That's what I think is important. Leirstein and the Progress Party should take the security of prison and the goal of rehabilitation more seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e1252	The representative, Kari Henriksen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e1255	I just need to clarify. For those who didn't get it, we actually built a new prison in our period, and we got the restitution queues down. In fact, the great grip to bring down the reconciliation queue is a new prison. The new government has $4 billion. However, it is now uncertain whether or not they will build new prisons. It's not district policy, it's a tool to bring down the settlement queues. When it was said that it is ‘approached’ clearly, it means that it is served on a level – if the Council of State understands that phrase better – it is just starting with the plans that are already there. Governments choose to put them away and start over. That's what I meant by 'nearly'.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e1265	The representative Freddy de Ruiter has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e1268	I notice the rhetorical crumbling of the Council of State. In terms of understanding, as far as it is at the expense of the Council of State, but I record that Ropstad, the representative of the Christian People's Party, has understood that as we have understood it, and that our remark gives a much clearer and clearer progress and is more committed. That's what we're talking about. I'm really wondering what more councils need to know about the need. We know the need for new prisons in South Africa, and not least we need rapid, clear and clear progress to achieve this. How much extra time has the Council of State and the government planned to spend on this matter, which is over there? That's my challenge and my question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e1275	It was the representative of Asphjell who really made me take the floor, as well as that I have to say a little bit about cell division. It is true that we do not take over a justice sector in crisis – that would be a significant overstatement of characteristics. What I have tried to make visible is that there is a lot that could have been done and should have been done. Policy is about priority, and this government is giving very high priority to the justice and preparedness sector, which we are getting to know, among other things. in the additional proposition. I just want to help nuance the picture a little bit. We believe that one should have made much more clear, so that one could get further ahead of what we are now facing. So a little step into cell doubling. There's no wish situation. We would want us not to use cell doubling as a tool, but the alternative to using cell doubling is much worse. The alternative is that the housing queues go up and not down. The alternative is that we do not have access to custody sites. It's a huge challenge, both for the police's further investigation, people's legal opinion and the sense of justice, and the way we're going to maintain trust in the justice sector. I have read the statement and record the Committee's clear comment in this area; that it is for short judges, and that we should follow closely – that is what this government is going to do. The representative Henriksen says that the red-greens built down the cows. Yes, for some time they did, but then they built them jam again. The challenge now is that the housing queues have been growing dramatically in recent years, without any action being taken to correct it. It is a major challenge when we see that there is not just a lack of prison places – there is a shortage in the central eastern region, there is a shortage in the north, and there is a shortage in the western region. I think the representative's round here instead shows that the picture shows a little more nuanced than the representative de Ruiter chooses to interpret it as. He gets to use it in his rhetoric in Agder, and then we get others to think about the whole country, because it's therefore necessary to secure prison capacity elsewhere than in Agder.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e1286	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e1292	Then we are ready to vote on the issues on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e1300	The president pointed out that there was a rich position here, which had been distributed in the seats of the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e1493	In the course of the debate, one proposal has been put forward, proposal No. 1, from Michael Tetzschner on behalf of Right, Advance Party, Christian People's Party and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2014 is authorised under: Expenditure1H.M. King and H.M. Queen1Apanage10 453 00050 Royal Court164 157 0002H.K.H. The Crown Prince and H.K.H. The Crown Princess1Apanage8 700 00050H.K.H. The Crown Prince and H.K.H. The staff of the Crown Princess, etc.17 823 00041Size1Operating expenditure854 500 00045Larger equipment acquisition and maintenance may be transferred176 900 00070Subsidies to the groups164 000 00072Aid to the Library of the Norwegian Nobel Institute1 500 00073Contingents, international delegations11 400 00074Travel grants to schools2 500 00042Ombudsman’s Office for Defence1Operating expenditure6 800 00043Ombudsman of the Administration1Operating expenditure63 300 00044Senior control committee for the intelligence, surveillance and security service1Operating expenditure10 400 00051Riskaudition1Operating expenditure476 400 000Total expenditure1 968 833 000 Cape TownDestinationsCronersInvestments3041Garden1Sale incomes7 600 0003Rent incomes1 000 00040Sales of apartments105 000 0003051Richrevision inland1 800 0002Refusion abroad650 000Total income116 050 000» Alternatively, this proposal shall be replaced by the opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e2608	The President assumes that the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Green Party vote in favour of the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e2611	I voted wrong!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e2616	There are several people who have done, but you can still change because we haven't finished voting. Has the representative Treen changed?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e2621	I hope so!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e7154	The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they want to vote against the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-03.ana.ud588e7194	As you remember from the beginning of the meeting today, the record was voted on before case no. 1st@item: inlistbox Does anyone want a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
