ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e26	The representative of Mr Morten Ørsal Johansen will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e29	On behalf of the representatives of Gjermund Hagesetter, Åge Starheim and myself, I am delighted to present proposals on immigration policy guidelines and amendments to the law on the access of foreigners to the kingdom and their residence here.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e34	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e46	On Thursday 16 May, the Storting received a notice from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State, Mr Vegar Solhjell, Mr Sigbjørn Johnsen and Mr Borten Moe will meet for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e53	Growth and value creation are important to ensure the prosperity of our society – and in addition to the state’s income. One from the Progress Party has long pointed out that a good framework for Norwegian business and Norwegian industry is needed to create values in Norway — especially in competition with the rest of the world, where the level of taxation and wages is often slightly lower. It is then necessary to ensure that Norwegian industry is competitive. We were therefore very pleased when the government during another party's national meeting found it important to say that they would come up with a package to stimulate business to invest more, to do more research and to secure profits through lower taxation. Unfortunately, it turned out that this was not something that was going to be followed up in the revised budget, which the Storting is about to deal with. This will only be implemented under a new government for the 2014 budget. Then I get a little thought, because if one already sees that the situation in Norwegian business is unfair or unlucky because business loses competitiveness, I would think the sensible thing was to implement measures now when you have occasion, and not to push the solutions for half a year in time – as the government unfortunately does. It is often that when politicians are able to define a problem, the means of solving the problem come in a little too late. Here the Storting could actually make decisions that led to a solving the problems faster than the government puts up. Now we have revised the budget for consideration. Then we can change the framework conditions, we can make changes to the tax system, we can make changes to the research effort, and we can make changes that stimulate more investment – in line with what the government itself has claimed is needed in this country. Then my question is: would the Minister of Finance be satisfied, and would he encourage the majority of people to make changes already in the revised budget – in line with what he says the Norwegian economy needs?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e66	Ensuring good framework conditions for value creation and safe jobs is one of the most important tasks of this government. It is also the background to the growth package presented in the context of the revised budget. What is the point and point one — which is most important and which has been the most important thing all along — is to pursue a predictable and sensible economic policy at large. Adherence to the framework conditions that lie around the governance of the Norwegian economy is quite essential for us to be able to maintain well-being and jobs in Norway. Why did we notify this now? – This is the question raised by the representative of Solvik-Olsen. The reason is that at the hearing we have sent a proposal to tighten the interest rate deduction in groups. It gives us our best estimate of approx. Three billion. I'm sorry. This publishing house is now being consulted, and it can only be operational from 1 January 2014 – provided that the Stortinget joins the proposals we are promoting, later this year. The government thought it was important that we were clear on what we were going to use those revenues for. The government chose to say that we want to use the revenues to reduce the tax on companies and personal business by one percentage point, including from 1 January 2014. At the same time, we are proposing a certain adjustment to the oil tax, so this is part of a totality that both points forward and takes up the growing bi-dividualism of the Norwegian economy. Or to put it this way: there were measures at the right time, there were proper measures, and there was the right dosage.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e77	The last thing was just a tumultuous fog talk – when one knows that one defines a problem that must apply from now on, but the solution will not come until six months under a new government. Here is a description of how the government is to make changes to the internal tax or internal calculation of companies, and then obtains a freed money that can be used for tax relief. I thought it was the situation for Norwegian industry that was important, not that one should always balance the government's budgets, and that if one can then release any money, one can use them – and vice versa. The question remains: when one sees that there is an increasing division of the Norwegian economy, why will one not make changes already in the revised budget? Amendments to the R & D Regulations are foreseen to bring forward the SkattenFUNN. You can already make changes to the depreciation policy now. No investigation is required – to wait until next year. The government would be pleased if the Storting proposed good changes, for example: better depreciation rules, already in the revised budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e86	First of all, I would like to reserve myself against the concept of ‘mist talk’. It is a concept which at least the signed Council of State does not use. I try to be honest both in the intentions we have in the proposals we make and in what are our objectives and our purpose in the policy. - Let it go. The second is that one has to do both. When presenting proposals to point forward, as this does, it is important to make it clear at the same time how to cover those proposals – as opposed to, among other things. The Progress Party does: promise enormous tax relief without explaining how to cover it. We keep order in the Norwegian economy, we keep order both on the debit side and on the credit side, and that is important in politics.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e93	Four follow-up questions are raised – first Christian Tybring-Gjedde.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e96	In any case, the comments of the Council of State on the policy of the Party of Advancement were misguided by a mischievous prince. In October we asked the department if it was possible and sensible to change the depreciation rates. Then we got the following answer: ‘The Ministry is not aware of new empirical evidence which suggests that depreciation rates should be increased.’ Alternatively, the State budget says that this has been found by them for the last two to three months — that they should actually be increased because one has discovered that there is a two-way split in the Norwegian economy. Can the Council of State specifically point to what has happened in the last three months, so that we can understand where this empire comes from?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e110	Yes, it is true that the Progress Party made a proposal to increase the depreciation rates both in what we call balancing group d, which concerns machines, etc., and for ships. It was a very far-reaching measure with a proceeds effect above 2 billion. kr. We rejected that proposal. When we got new quarterly accounts figures, which we got in connection with the revised national budget, it turned out that investment in mainland Norway actually shows a negative trend. Therefore, it is important to indicate that we will use a measure that we also used in 2009 in the context of the financial crisis, namely to increase depreciation in the first year – so-called start-up write-offs – to ensure that a firm is clearly informed that there will be opportunities for companies to invest against a larger depreciation in the first year, i.e. a measure that we, among others, have. used in 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e117	Svein Fleet – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e120	When the Council of State presented revised national budgets, he spoke of ‘building scandals before the war comes’. That is what the government did when they presented a growth package for the two-track economy during the Røjre national meeting – on a white Sunday morning – which included not least appropriations for research. But in its revised budget, the Finance Minister cuts over 100 million. for research. This is quite striking when, a few days before, research investments have just been used as an emergency medical tool — to put it that way. Now, the Council of State of the Advance Party initially says that they have taken the right action in a timely manner. Is it to cut so much in the research appropriations correctly in time?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e128	The revised national budget is primarily a revision of the budget to check that things are going as planned and that there is consistency between what is actually needed and what is to be allocated. What happens, among other things, in research appropriations, there is a decrease in quotas for EU-funded research projects. That's the main reason for the numbers that the representative Fleet now mentions. At the same time – just to draw attention to it – the government has now announced that it will join Horizon 2020, a major research programme on the education side to be launched by the EU. This will mean that we will have to pay for an increase in the EU quota in some areas, but this is simply an estimate change in the sense that EU quotas are falling. If the opposite had happened, we would have had to grant more in the revised national budget to meet our obligations towards the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e133	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e136	Fog talk or fog prince – I really think it was quite informative what the Minister of Finance said. What he said was that you suddenly got 3 billion. kr more because you close some tax holes, and then you had to give tax letters to someone. It's very interesting that two parties in the government, who might be sitting in front of us here, haven't had much to say in this. It could be, for example, It has been decided in the Ministry of Finance that there will be 3 billion entering the hospital, research or drug users who need treatment. kr more in tax, and therefore tax relief must be given to others. This means that this government has an action rule for fiscal policy, and that is the level from 2004 – from the Bondevik government. My question is, is what is governing what priorities you are doing, also in the revision?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e143	This government gave a tax promise when it came to power in 2005, and that was to continue the level of taxation in 2004. That promise has been made by this government. When you close a tax hole, as we do through the proposal that is now being consulted, we get about. Three billion. kr more into tax revenue. It has to be applied to measures on the tax side – this is the tax liability. This is not something the Ministry of Finance has invented on its own, it is the government's decision, and the revised national budget is the government's document. This is the whole government behind it, and the tax promise is the whole government behind it. So it's that priorities on the expenditure side are part of the ordinary priority debate, both in government and in the Storting, but this is tax exchange. There are increased tax revenues that go against reduced tax revenue in other areas, and we have been clear about that in this package.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e150	Borghild Tenden – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e153	The left is also of the opinion that something needs to be done now, because we should take action right now. As we see it, policy and strategy should rely more on reducing public costs and on improving efficiency and innovation. The left considers that it is necessary to strengthen the mainland industry and business with tax incentives, targeting the public sector, increased capital input and a real commitment to research and education. I will repeat the main question: why does the government not see that these measures would work?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e160	What was presented to business in the context of the revised national budget is a powerful package. There we provide relief for business, including changes and improvements to the TaxFUNN scheme, start-up write-offs and a reduction in the corporate tax rate from 28 pst. until 27 pst. It is an important measure that has been very well received in business. And then we have to deal with other questions. We will continue to invest significantly in research and education, but there are things that we will come back to in the ordinary state budget that will be presented on 14 October this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e165	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e168	The Minister of Finance may stand still. There is an interesting debate on the two-wayness of the Norwegian economy, on how we can secure Norwegian jobs and strengthen competitiveness, which was promoted now in the previous round of questions. When the government presented its growth package, the Right reacted with – I kept saying – pedal flaps. We were pleased that the government recognised that tax relief is important for securing Norwegian jobs and strengthening the competitiveness of companies. But as this debate has gone on, I have become more and more in doubt about what the government really means, because now the Minister of Finance said that it was necessary to reduce the company rate for companies by 1 pst. because you got some extra tax revenue by closing a hole. It is a little similar to when the government has increased the trade union deduction, but sent the tax bill to the companies, has increased the agricultural deduction, but sent the tax bill to the households through increased VAT, and lowered the tax a little for some pensioners, but sent the tax bill to other pensioners. Last week, the Prime Minister also created full confusion as to what the government is thinking in the future. In 2005, we had a tax reform where there was the same rate of labour and capital. The Prime Minister has now announced that the tax reform may be a fall. Does this mean that the government will reintroduce the bureaucratic sharing model that was removed in 2005? That question hangs in the air. The Prime Minister also refused in the previous Question Time to answer who is going to pay more tax, when others are going to pay less tax. When Sigbjørn Johnsen was Minister of Finance in 1992, he was for tax relief as a very necessary instrument for implementing the tax reform. Why do we now suddenly feel that there is no need for tax relief when implementing such a comprehensive reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e179	Let me start with the beginning -- to say it that way. There is now a very strong debate on the international tax adaptation of multinational companies. Last night, there was a big look-up in the Financial Times about Apple. There are two things happening in the international context. One is focusing on what you call intra-corporate transfers – the possibility of moving tax bases from one country to another. More and more countries are now committed to protecting their tax base. That is why we sent this proposal to tighten the interest rate deduction at the hearing. The second thing that happens internationally is that several countries reduce their corporate tax rates. Two of our neighbouring countries have done so, both Sweden and Denmark. On that basis, we've put down the Scheel committee, which is going to look at this in a slightly larger context. When we sent the proposal for restrictions on the interest deduction to be consulted, I was very clear that the revenues we received as a result of that proposal would benefit Norwegian companies. That is the proposal we put forward and announced in the context of the revised national budget, that the proceeds from tax evasion, i.e. a tax exchange, should be used in Norwegian companies. We could theoretically have applied it to other reliefs for business, but we would suggest lowering the tax rate by one percentage point. Enough about the story. Then there's the bigger thing that's necessary to figure out. That is why the Scheel Committee has been set up, and they have been given a very clear mandate. They shall consider both the international development and the relationship between taxes on general income and taxes on companies. That sample will be submitted on 15 October next year. In its wake, there will be a broad political debate and, hopefully, also a broad majority in the UK that will support a new tax reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e188	It is good that the government has proposed to reduce the corporate tax by 1 pst. It partially compensates for the fact that the government has doubled the tax on working capital in the last eight years, which has affected Norwegian enterprises and Norwegian jobs. After tightening the tax, a certain tax relief is now proposed. That's good. You're going in the right direction now in the last round. But what the Prime Minister chose to do last week was tell something about the direction in which the reliefs were to go – before the Scheel Committee report comes. Then the question arises: if you are going to make tax changes that could amount to $10 billion in tax reductions, who is the government and the red-green parties going to send the tax bill to? In the case of the Workers' Party, there is a doubt on its tax promise that the tax level should be the same. So who's going to pay more? Are those the pensioners? Is that the homeowners? Is it the social security fee to be paid or is it the employer's fee to be paid?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e196	The point one is that well-being is to be paid. Therefore, we do not promise a lower tax level, but we say that we want to close tax gaps, expand the tax base and look at the possibility of using it to reduce tax rates, and in this context we have concentrated on corporate taxes. In other words, we do the same thing we did in 1992 – expand the tax base and reduce it by rates. We have also not announced any reliefs in the personal tax; these are the corporate taxes we have now concentrated on. Then we have set up the Scheel Committee – with a very broad and comprehensive mandate – to look at corporate taxes in both a Norwegian and an international context. I have been involved in this before – I was involved in the tax reform from 1992. Before we got there and made the good decisions in Stortinget, there was a comprehensive investigation: three investigations, reports and a good treatment in Stortinget. I'm adding up to a pretty similar treatment now, when we get the Scheel Committee report in a year and a half.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e203	There will be three follow-up questions – first Gunnar Gundersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e206	I almost have to say: Minister of Finance, this is not going to happen, because the Prime Minister has in principle concluded with regard to the Scheel Committee – two months after it was set up. He has said that the company tax was going down, and then he discovered that much of the tax system in Norway is based on the fact that it should be equal to taxation of capital and labour, and thus also the taxation of persons had to be reduced. It's signaled. It's signaled that this is the start of a larger conversion. We're talking about 15 billion. kr per percentage unit, where the tax rates decrease. When the tax level is going to be kept constant, we can't talk about what's going to happen. When the Minister of Finance is so ready to criticise others for not explaining the discovery, the government must also begin to explain who is going to pay more. Or is it the way Kristin Halvorsen describes in his book, that in 2009 people knew that the house tax would be lifted, but they didn't say anything because they knew it was unpopular?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e211	There's a tax proposal on the table. It is a tax proposal to reduce the rate of corporation tax, both for limited liability companies and for self-employed persons, by one percentage point – from 28 to 27 – plus the other measures. It'll cost about 3.5 billion. kr. It is covered in heads by an extension of the tax base. There have not been any notices of relief in the personal tax. On the other hand, we have put down a sample, such as: shall consider the relationship between the corporate tax rate and the general tax rate. Today, this is similar – it came about in the context of the 1992 tax reform – and what will happen in the future, the Scheel Committee must now have the opportunity to work on it. However, there is no indication of any relief in the personal tax, and therefore there is no need for detection in that area either. On the other hand, we have made the need for corporate taxation visible, and we are proud of that proposal, and that proposal lies there.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e218	Ketil Solvik-Olsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e221	First, a little adult education: the Progress Party balances its budget, and it finds the Minister of Finance in our alternative state budget. I think it's sad that you say you haven't seen this, when, after all, we've dealt with this in Stortinget, but it's got to be your problem. So to this tax case, the finance minister says he's reducing corporate tax because he's found a three-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion. kr which causes a tax In today's Business, the head of the Financial Committee, from the Workers' Party, admitted that this figure is most uncertain – it can swing up and it can swing down. Then my question is: now the government has announced tax reliefs of 3 billion. kr, which is covered by closing a 3 billion tax hole. kr. But if the tax haven turns out to be just 2 billion. kr, he will guarantee that the tax relief of 3 billion. kr is at work, or which of the tax reliefs that he has notified, will he begin to withdraw?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e230	Now I think the Solvik-Olsen representative meant three billion, and not ten?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e241	Yes, I said three – ‘Tri’. I'm rolling on the r. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e246	Just so we're clear, it's a The proposal that is now being consulted — and with the best estimate the Ministry of Finance can make, based on, inter alia, tax statistics – is 3 billion. kr, with the proposal now in place. So I can assure the representative of Solvik-Olsen that we will propose 1 pst. the reduction in corporate tax, and this will be fully financed by changes in this interest deduction plus what we have announced of base extensions in the property tax. So this proposal stands by law, and it comes under the 2014 state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e253	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e256	Then we have at least been told that there is a certain difference between the Hedeland dialect and the rogaland dialect! Now the Council of State says that there has never been any notification of any personal tax. But now the Prime Minister has been at a lunch seminar, even in the Workers' Party, and the record from there is as follows: ‘Minister of State Jens Stoltenberg opens up to follow up the next cut in the corporate tax with a corresponding cut in the passenger tax’. Then I just have to ask: is this taken completely out of the loose air, or does it have any substance in it?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e269	Now I want to say that both rogalands dialect and hedemark dialect are unusually nice dialects, but this was probably not the case itself. The main point is that we have not announced any reliefs in the personal tax. The prime minister pointed out that the sample now employed has been mandated to look at the relationship between general income tax and the corporate tax rate. I'm pretty sure the sample will do this in an excellent way, because there are two other important premises on the basis of this sample. The first is to ensure that the level of taxation is maintained overall — or ‘maintains the proceeds’, as it is called in the professional language — and the second is to provide for distribution purposes. This is also at the bottom of this sample. So that's where we stand, and I look forward to the discussion we're going to have about the Scheel Committee's report in the next big time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e276	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e279	My question goes to the Minister of Oil and Energy. Throughout the 2000s there has been work on a new power line between Ørskog and Sogndal. In this region, in central Norway, the capacity has been blasted, and in cold, dry periods the electricity price has galloped, and security of supply has been threatened. In 2011 the joy was great when the government finally decided to build the power line. In the press release of the oil and energy minister, he writes that it is «a great day for Sogn and Fjordane, Møre and Romsdal and the Trondelagsfylken». He also writes: ‘Now everything is at the ready for the power line to be completed by the end of 2015.’ But the Council of State misjudged itself a little, because he changed the path that the trade union, the NVE, had granted the concession, into a nature reserve. Now I am not going to speculate on the reasons why this was done, other than that I have registered a clear accusation in the media, but I have also not least registered that the Civil Ombudsman has been scratched in his criticism and said that there is no justification for the decision. But the consequences of moving the line were at least that the countyman has twice said no to the power line being allowed to go through the nature reserve. The Directorate for Nature Management has now said no to its review, and the matter goes to the Ministry of Environment. Last week, Statnett sent out a press release. They regret that the power line does not come in 2015, and write: ‘The fact that the project is not completed in the planned time due to circumstances we do not have is regrettable.’ Those are strong words. We thought the power situation had been resolved. We thought the power line would come in 2015. Now there's a lot of uncertainty, and my question is, how is it possible to get in this situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e302	Let me take that from the beginning. In December 2011, the Ministry of Oil and Energy granted a concession under the Energy Act for the construction of the line from Ørskog to Sogndal. It is not in central Norway, as the representative Ropstad suggested, so it is in a stretch between Sogn and Fjordane and Møre and Romsdal. However, it will be a very important step to ensure the supply of electricity to a region that has had too poor security of supply over time. The construction of the line is in full swing. Statnett announced last week that it had to be calculated a year’s delay. It is of course regrettable, but it is also possible to understand that it is a large and complicated project. It's almost 30 miles of 420 kV high-spent line. The fact that the ministry deviates from the recommendation from the underlying agencies, in this case NVE, as far as the final trasé selection is concerned, there is no drama in it. It is simply an ordinary political process. It is at this time that the government and the political level come into the process of dealing with where to lay the important and large lines. If you remember the criticism that my predecessor Terje Riis-Johansen got related to the line and line elections in Hardanger, we know that the Stortinget was very concerned that you put the line where the trades union recommended – that is, that you followed up the trades union without independent political judgment. Statnett already said in his application that if one chose this route through Bremen, one had to have a derogation under the Nature Diversity Act. Statnett has applied for that. This derogation is now pending in the Ministry of the Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e313	In any case, the consequence of the decision of the Council of State to change the route of the power line is that it will be a postponement and that the power situation will still be threatened. But one thing is that it is serious that it is a good alternative, and that you then choose to put the line through a nature reserve, but what I think is perhaps even more serious, also describes the Minister of Environmental Protection in a chronicle of the NRK Opinion yesterday entitled «Do we protect Norway in its entirety?». There he writes: ‘It has become a policy trend to be responsible for nature protection. But we do not protect ourselves in all things. We are not protected in Norway." Both the County and the Directorate for Nature Management are clear that the line should not go through the nature reserve, and the Directorate for Nature Management says that parts of the nature reserve, or perhaps all of it, must be averted if it is to go through. Now the matter is at the Minister for the Environment's table. I suppose he might not say so much about that matter, but I want to ask him in general: should there not be very serious reasons to avert a nature reserve?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e327	The President now assumes that it is the Minister for the Environment to answer this question, and will then give the floor to Mr Vegar Solhell. – For a moment, because the computer system did not realize that it had changed the State Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e330	If that's okay, I can start to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e335	Yes, then the Council of State may begin to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e338	The computer system will try to follow me as best it can. Yes, there must be compelling reasons for dispensation to build something in a nature reserve or other protected area. That's why it rarely happens. But it happens once in a while. For example, exemptions previously granted relate to power lines. When it comes to this specific matter, the Minister for Oil and Energy took care of the background for her. Statnett has now applied for a derogation. It has been dealt with in the underprivileged countries and has been dealt with in my department quite recently. I put forward a quick procedure and came back with the evaluation of that application.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e347	Follow-up questions are raised – first by the representative Øyvind Håbreek, who might be so kind to say which of the councils he wants to ask follow-up questions to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e350	I'll do that. The follow-up question goes to the Minister of Oil and Energy. That's how the power line we're talking about here has been seen as the solution to the challenge itself with the strained power situation that we've had in Middle Norway, and that this year, with a little too little rainfall, we'll notice the consequences of – although perhaps not today is the day you notice it the most. But then, when we got into this situation described by the representative Ropstad, many of us think back on the day when the oil and energy minister established this concession and produced it as if the situation had now been resolved, now it was just building and finishing. So the question to the Minister of Oil and Energy, which I think many in the region in question are now asking, is there more equal in the cargo, or can we now expect that the line is actually being built and finished?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e358	Let me start by saying that I think we should all respect that this is – point 1 – a big project, but it is also a project that affects many people. It's close to where many people live. It represents a great natural intervention. And of course, in a democratic country there are plenty of opportunities to protest about it. We have to take that into account and expect people to make use of, and do, to defend what is their own interests. There is nothing new, and I think you also have to see that will happen in the future, and I believe that the decision taken by the Ministry of Oil and Energy under the Energy Act was well justified. Nor are there any conflict-free alternatives to pulling lines through the Myklebust Valley. And of course, a lot of this line is going to be done in 2015. It will contribute significantly to ensuring the supply situation in Central Norway. Together with significant expansion of new renewable energy, energy savings and more capacity to exchange to Sweden, it looks much better in Central Norway now than just a few years ago. [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e365	Anyway, speaking time is over. Then are the next follow-up questions from Siri A. Meling – who will also underline which state council she wants to ask the question to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e368	My follow-up question goes to the Minister for the Environment. State councillor Ola Borten Moe said in the questionnaire today that there was no drama in that change in trasé elections that made the line now to be laid through a nature reserve. As the Minister for the Environment certainly knows, nature reserves are the most stringent form of protection we have. If we are to protect, it is important to ensure legitimacy, not least among the local population, landowners, etc., and many are asking enough questions by simply changing the trajectory choices right into a nature reserve. This testifies in many ways to what we will call internal chaos in the government, which causes us to get these delays because chaos causes little implementation in the government. My question to the Council of State is: is the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Oil and Energy speaking together?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e377	All the time – and our departments are working together on a lot of things because environmental protection and energy are very close together. I believe that the representative Meling basically knows that there is a close dialogue on many of those issues. It's true, as I said before, that there are strict conditions to obtain a derogation for example. construction of a power line and other things through a nature reserve. It shall and should be, because it is a strict form of protection and a good way to protect pristine nature. But in some cases, and in this case that was the case, there are different concerns to be met, and different options that also follow nature in a slightly lucky way. In this case, an assessment was made, and the government proposed to build it through the Sørdalen area. Then one had to have a democratic process afterwards, with an application for a waiver. It is now being treated by me, and I will go into the matter carefully and evaluate it in a thorough and rapid manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e386	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e389	My question goes to Minister for the Environment, Board Vegar Solhjell. We have a constant debate, which is going back and forth in the media, which is about whether there is a basis for any debate on the issue of man-made climate change. That's why I wanted to focus the Council of State on a very interesting report that came from SINTEF just a few weeks back. It is a report produced on request from the Norwegian authorities. Let me draw attention to a small part of the summary of the report. Sintef writes, in my translation, the following: The report concludes positively that an alleged almost unanimous scientific consensus on anthropogenic global warming, that ‘science is determined’, is exaggerated. The report finds a robust, critical, scientific discourse in climate-related research and underlines that a ‘consensus-oriented’ approach to science can represent a political and unscientific belief in science – a belief that conflicts with the ideal of ‘normal science’. This report calls for a continuing problematic, critical and unorthodox public debate on man-made global warming, and for a clearer distinction between science and politics. Does the Council believe that the research institution SINTEF has been purchased and paid by the oil industry, or does it share the SINTEF conclusion, which clearly states that there is still a need for a debate on this issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e404	First of all, I have to say that I think maybe it's the first time that I can remember that the word'science' has been spoken in quotes from the Great Britain's pulpit – or perhaps in a serious debate at all. Science doesn't seem to be in quotes. Science is the basis for policy in almost all areas of society, not least in the climate field. I am a strong supporter of debate in the scientific environment and in the research environment on climate. That's for several reasons: first, because there's a lot of things we don't know well enough yet, second, because there's a development that makes you need to figure out why it happens. An example of this is the new reports that have been published, which have gained some attention, about climate sensitivity and how high or low it is – very important knowledge. And also because it is important in itself that there is a debate about scientific method and scientific results. But it's a big leap from there to doubt the scientific conclusions that have an extremely heavy and wide range of professional support. It's not our job as politicians to conclude science, but to use it and act on it. There I mean that while I'm basing on the most comprehensive scientific work in the world in this area, and perhaps in the whole, simply the United Nations Climate Panel, as a basis for action, the representative Amundsen spends a lot of his time doubting it. So I would say that it would be useful now in this round about the representative Amundsen would clarify about – yes, he is in favour of debate, but if he will now also clarify that – anthropogenic climate change exists, and establish the IPCC, the international climate panel, as our leading authoritative source of action and policy action.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e413	Let me first underline that the quotation mark refers to ‘science is decided’. That's exactly what SV – Solhell, the party leader and others from SV – has gone out in the media and said. They will almost put the whole debate to death and say that there is no basis for an ongoing debate on so-called man-made climate change. The party of progress has been clear and clear about people influencing the climate, but the question is, how much does it amount to in relation to the natural variations that happen around us anyway? That is where the debate lies. It's SV that acts unscientific, when you sort of try to stop the debate, when you say that all the debate around this is unscientific. No, that's exactly what I've been illustrating right now. Sintef says clearly that there is room for debate; there is room for continuing to challenge the natural politically adopted truths. And I'm still challenging the Council of State to answer that question. Does he agree with Sintef's assessment or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e420	Kaoset seems to me to be complete in the Progress Party now, because in the same sentence, the representative first says Amundsen ‘man-made climate change’ before he says that they never doubted that they were man-made. Now, the Progress Party needs to find out whether they are basing their primary international scientific work on which all other countries in the world are mainly based. It is something like 192 countries that are members of the United Nations Convention on Climate Change, and therefore it is based on it. All other countries in the Western world base what the Progress Party has a seminar with itself on whether to base their policies, or not – and which maybe Siv Jensen will clarify during the national meeting if they are based. SINTEF is a serious and good research foundation. I don't know that report - he's probably an interesting contribution. I hope there is a lot of debate between researchers about science on how to understand climate change, but that anthropogenic climate change contributes to a temperature rise and is the main cause of the temperature rise we have experienced, and that the most important scientific basis is found in the United Nations Climate Panel, which I believe is the basis for policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e427	Ketil Solvik-Olsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e430	I think this was very clarifying, because here the Minister for the Environment also admits that there is an element of both parts, both natural changes and man-made changes. This is in line with what the Progress Party wrote in a document we promoted in the 2007 Stortinget, Document No. 8:97, where we say it's a relationship. The Progress Party takes seriously the warnings from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. That is why we are promoting measures to cut CO2 emissions, but at the same time we reserve the right to stimulate debate. The reason why we do this is that at the 2007 SV national meeting, former party leader Kristin Halvorsen chattered in his national meeting that there were people who questioned the Intergovernmental Panel's forecasts. They had to be bought and paid by the oil industry, was Kristin Halvorsen's statement. That is why it is a point for us to show that this debate is going on, not because one should not do anything at all, but to stimulate scientific debate and not stigmatise those who ask questions. When Cicero publishes a press release on a day of Pentecost that there are changes to the forecasts, the Minister for the Environment should also be pleased that this debate is being stimulated. Do the Councils agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e439	Firstly, it's hard because discussing with the Progress Party about the questions here is like discussing with a seminar. There are completely different opinions and completely different ways of saying things. Then you must go to the source: the application for the Progress Party. Programmes, including the proposals that I took the trouble to read through to the national meeting now, are not clear about a recognising man-made climate change, and the climate panel as the most important scientific source of action. As long as I've been in politics, I've been a strong fan of scientific debate and criticism. It's part of the foundation of science, and for one to move on. One example of this is the reports on climate sensitivity, which are not about questioning whether anthropogenic climate change leads to temperature rises, but on the extent to which concentrations lead to certain levels of temperature rises — those that are climate sensitive. It's incredibly important to debate – we certainly don't have the final answer. But it is not that the Progress Party has seen question mark. They have seen question marks on the very basis of the whole policy... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e446	Nikolai Astrup – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e449	The scientific debate is important, including in the climate area, and it must continue – there is much we do not know. But as important as the debate on science is the debate on what we are actually doing about action. The Progress Party demonstrated during the negotiations on the climate agreement in Stortinget that they were willing to participate in far more ambitious measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in Norway than the government itself had presented. Is it a bit embarrassing for SV and the government that the Progress Party was willing to go beyond what the government itself was willing to do to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in Norway? And: Was it for this reason that the government chose to exclude the Progress Party from climate comparisons?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e454	The government presented an ambitious climate announcement just over a year ago, which, in my view, got a lot of praise. It contained many new tough measures. Even if we now see a decrease in CO2 emissions in Norway, we need an even stronger decline in the years that are coming. So we went to the opposition section, as we did the previous time, to become a few about a broad settlement. The main reason is that the value of long-term and broad support for climate change policies is very high. The situation was that we first tried to be some with four games in Stortinget. We weren't. Then we were able to become some with the three opposition parties Left, Christian People's Party and Right. The result speaks for itself. We were able to get along with the three games. The representative Astrup is bored for tactical reasons that he didn't get the Advance Party. Well, I think the brutal truth is that a party that doesn't believe in the problem didn't create a good basis for being some, but we were some... [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e464	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e467	I'm really very tired of discussing whether it's man-made climate change. I have no doubt that it is. That is why, as the representative of Astrup says, we need to discuss measures and move on. The Swedish Minister for the Environment has now spent eight years. At least I'm not satisfied with what's happened in Norway in the last few years. When we compare ourselves with Denmark and Sweden, in those countries it has been 16 and 21 pst respectively. cut in greenhouse gas emissions since 1990. In Norway, this has increased by almost 6 pst. since 1990. We're far from the way we should be. The commitment of the Minister for the Environment – what he says – is so right. He's eager to cut greenhouse gas emissions. What I think is the main problem in Norway is that it is politicians, like Solhjell, who are so clear, but who do so little. My question is: what will the Minister for the Environment do in the next few years, which he has not been able to do in eight years? How much time does he need to do something?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e472	Let's go through the picture briefly. The situation is that Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions have fallen in recent years. Emissions from the last year for which we have figures, which is 2012, are, with the exception of the financial crisis year, the lowest since 1995. Both the overall greenhouse gas emissions and CO2 emissions have fallen in recent years – in our period. If that trend continues, emissions will go downwards towards 2020. But if we're going to achieve our 2020 targets, they're going to have to go down a little bit more in the year to do it. Therefore, it was important to provide a climate communication and become a few about a climate settlement. Message contains several actions. Some of them are starting this year, others in the next few years, such as phase-out of oil fires, technology funds, transport-side measures, etc. Many of them will have a significant effect. That's why it's actually realistic to achieve those climate targets. I also want to challenge the Christian People's Party: they are some of us in that policy – we have made a compromise in the Stortingen on an ambitious policy. There may be a need for more in the years to come. [[President clubs]] In that case, we must be willing to look at it...
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e480	The President will stress that speaking time actually applies to state councils. The next and last main questions are asked by the representative Nikolai Astrup.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e485	Things often take too long. It also applies in the Ministry of the Environment. Unfortunately, there are many examples. Take, for example: Lier kommune: For several years you have been working on developing a fjord village called Lierstranda. The plan is clear, and a city with 20,000 inhabitants in the central eastern region can be realised – it is housing we need. The area will have direct access to road and rail. However, the railway works have raised objections, and the case has been on the Council of State's table for more than two years without clarification. The case in Lier Municipality is not unique. IKEA on Danebu, between Larvik and Sandefjord, is another example. The clarification from the ministry took two years. Another example is the E6 at Åkersvika, where the Ministry of Environment has spent four years evaluating different options for vitracees in a wet land area. As the Workers' Party Knut Storberget said, it has taken too long. It's easy to join it. In Bergen, Blomsterdalen was environmental housing, the construction of several hundred passive houses, for treatment for one year. Disagreements between State authorities required a total of three years of treatment before the final approval of the project. The point here is not to go into the individual matters, which certainly have demanding aspects. The point is the disproportionate length of the procedure. The question to the Council of State is whether the Council of State can defend that it takes so long for the Ministry to take decisions on these matters, and whether it is possible to see how unfortunate this is, both for the municipalities and private actors, who have to wait year after year for a clarification in important and large projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e494	As I have said before here from this talking room about Åkervika-saka, I think that four years is unacceptable for a long time to deal with a matter. It should and should not happen. There are also examples of other issues that are going on for too long. I would like to add that three of the four issues that were mentioned here are those that I decided in my time in the Ministry of the Environment, and that are being implemented in different places in Norway. The discussion of how to deal with insider dealing – as a copy mentioned – is an important discussion, because we need the depository institution. However, we do not at least need urgent and prudent procedures for municipalities and others to build up. That is why I am now working on reviewing this and making improvements. The most important thing we have to do is be done locally and regionally. That's because 99 pst. by matters of regulation and planning to be decided locally. Only about 1 pst. will be sent to the Ministry of the Environment. However, the one percent is important and must be treated well and efficiently. That is why we are now considering setting time limits for proceedings at different levels, so that one can get more rapid and prudent proceedings on insider dealing. Most people can accept that a case is complex, and even that it can take some time, but that it is far-sighted, is important for those who want to build it. Then I have to add that the average duration of the proceedings in the Ministry of the Environment is considerably shorter than all the cases mentioned here. Many things will be able to be treated quite quickly. But one will also be able to find examples of things that are big and complex, where there are processes. The discussion about Lierstranda is an example of this. We're there depending on the rules of the state of affairs. Nevertheless, it is a clear objective to bring down the length of the procedure, and we therefore consider deadlines.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e503	Today, 22 state bodies have the right to object. Objections are raised to 50 pst. of the area part of the municipal plans. If you include statements of objections, which have gradually become an established practice to avoid objection, but which leads to the same thing, namely building stop, we're up to nearly 100 pst. This was between 2007 and 2010. We know that the number of objections increased by 33 pst. from 2005 to 2009. In Hordaland, there were 44 p.m., and that was before the present state joined, so then we can imagine that something might have become more after that time. The question is what the Council of State does to coordinate and streamline the objections that exist between state agencies, also in concrete terms, in order to reduce the duration of proceedings in the Ministry of the Environment for the matters that end there.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e511	Just to clear up a little bit of the facts: if you look at the area part of the municipal plan and at the regulatory plans – and the regulatory plans are by far the most – then some-and-30 pst. of which met with countersigns. But it has been a slight increase over a few years. It is also used as an argument for an early reporting on or notifying of national interests. I would like to say that there are at least many examples of how it seems to be so clear that the state at an early stage reports that there may be a contradiction here if you do not make small adjustments, do something. On the contrary, many municipalities say that it is better to be informed early than just to be met with a counterclaim later. However, the most important thing is that we work on this, going through practice when it concerns the counterinstitution. The aim is to speed up treatment, to ensure that government interests come in earlier, and to coordinate, with a view to making an effort in some countries now. We also consider temptations.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e520	Follow-up questions will be raised – first Siri A. Meling.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e523	If there's something this government has done, it's getting a huge increase in the number of bureaucrats. It concerns both the Ministry of the Environment and underlying agencies. As far as time use is concerned, this cannot be a matter of lack of procedural capacity. The question is whether this use of time is due to the fact that there is a great deal of internal disagreement in the government – as we also see in other areas, is there a lack of implementation – or does the Council believe that time use is proportional to the quality of the decisions that are finally taken?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e530	Most of the decisions of the government and the Ministry of Environment are implemented in a much shorter time than the single examples referred to here. As I mentioned, in the one case, it's been used too long. The reason why we're now going into this is because the counterinstitution and how we practice it is important to ensure good progress in planning and development across Norway. 99 pst. of the matters in question, settled locally. I think we can easily be sure that the most important thing we have to look at then is the regional and local level and how we can quickly and smoothly make processes work there. I instead list a number of measures we are now considering looking at to get it done. In addition, it is important that the matters that end up on the government’s table be decided quickly. It is done in many cases, but there are examples of the opposite. That is why we consider setting deadlines to ensure a careful and good procedure that is fast in those cases as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e539	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e542	That objection is not necessarily a sign that things don't work. This is how it should be – if state guidelines are broken, objections should be raised. For me and for the Christian People's Party, there are different considerations that weigh each other up. On the one hand, one has wanted it to be determined locally, and on the other hand, the responsibility of the administrator, that one has certain interests to care for, whether in the case of nature reserves – which we were in place for – or soil protection. This is balanced against each other. In as many cases as possible, we hope that it can be decided locally. That is why I very much agree with the Minister for the Environment that the Opposition Institute is important. However, the main challenge, as we see it, is that in order to ensure legitimacy – as the representative of Astrup also pointed out – the procedure has to go down. It must be done as quickly as possible and it must be as easy as possible to handle for the builders. I have heard the Minister for the Environment repeatedly say that now is the time for the proceedings to go down. What's actually going to be done concretely? I do not feel that we get an answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e551	The procedure must be as expeditious as possible, but as thorough as necessary — it is also necessary to carry out thorough and good practice. Let me go through the four tracks we're working on in the review of the counterinstitution that will be presented by the government. The first is that we're going to cut the time, make the processing faster out there 99 pst. of the cases decided. The second is that we should make it clear that government agencies that have countersigns have to enter the process early – most people can accept counter-statements if they get it early. The third is coordination, that the various state agencies are being coordinated into one counterinstitution, with which we are now going to conduct trials. The last is that we also consider deadlines for the proceedings, including those in the Ministry of Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e558	The oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e570	There will be a few changes in the set question list. In this context, the President refers to the list distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative Tom Staahle to the Minister of Defence, has been transferred to the Minister of Labour, who is directly responsible. Question 3, from the representative Bjørn Lødemel to the Minister of Knowledge, is postponed to the next Question Time, as the Council of State is absent due to participation in the funeral.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e585	Time usage was a theme in the previous round of questions – it will probably be now. I would like to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade: ‘The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade is the owner of Folldal Gruver, which has contaminated Folla River for years. Cleaning has been repeatedly exposed despite the gravity of the situation that fish do not live in the river. Last year, the Environment Minister promised that pilot plants would come in 2013 and final clean-up would be in place from 2014. Now everything is exposed, and the municipality threatens to take action and send the bill to the mine owner. How does the Council of State view the challenge, and what will it do to prevent the municipality from taking action?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e594	I thank you for the question and will first stress that a number of measures have already been implemented in Folldal. Measures for the collection of clean water were implemented in 2005 before draining to the contaminated masses so that less water flows through the contaminated masses. Corresponding measures for the collection of drainage water within the mine area have also been implemented in 2006 and 2007. A project called ‘Pilot Project — Wet Land’, based on a previous cleaning measure at Røros, has been further implemented. The pilot project started in the autumn of 2006 and ended in the autumn of 2009. The conclusion was that the system was suitable for small quantities of water and for even water flow. In periods of high flow, further cleaning measures are necessary and therefore this project was not continued. Thus, despite these measures implemented, it has not yet been possible to reach the level imposed by Clif. I can assure you that we are still working too hard to find good, future solutions for the pollution situation in Folldal. It is not true what some have claimed recently, that ‘everything has now been put at risk’. I am committed to finding the most appropriate solution for pollution control measures in Folldal, in accordance with the requirements of the Climate and Pollution Directorate, as soon as possible. In the investigation of action options for pollution control measures on the Onion, the Directorate for Mineral Management has received new information on clean-up technological solutions that may also be relevant for the assessment of the situation in Folldal. I would like to stress that there has not been, or is being, any decision on how we proceed to implement pollution control measures in Folldal, before we have conducted sufficient discussions with the Municipality of Folldal. In other words, we will neither postpone the tendering process for the pilot plant nor decide on other matters until we have discussed this with the municipality. I am aware that the Directorate of Mineral Management has agreed to a meeting with the Municipality of Folldal on the matter on 30 May 2013. I understand – and share – the impatience in the matter. It is important to put these measures in place as soon as possible. At the same time, it is unfortunate that by ignoring new, relevant knowledge, we are at risk of getting a worse total solution for Folldal. Therefore, we need to take this further into account in the evaluation of the process and find the solutions most appropriate for the pollution situation in Folldal. I am committed to rapid progress in the matter, so that we can implement the measures as soon as possible. I am also concerned about having a good dialogue with the municipality about the further process and the forward-looking solutions for Folldal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e618	I thank you for the answer and I know a certain humility at the Council of State. I think that's good, because it's a complicated situation. However, the concept of ‘as soon as possible’ is on the move to lose all content in the community. It's serious. When local authorities also write to a leader about frightening paralysis, this should be taken seriously. It is now ten years since Clif brought orders to the Ministry of Industry and Trade as the mine owner to clean up. I cannot interpret the situation other than that everything is exposed, because in January there was an e-mail to Folldal Municipality where Dirmin, the Directorate for Mineral Management, clearly says that it is only days to do before the tender documents for a pilot plant are ready, and that they cannot attend a meeting because they have to complete the tender documents. Now nothing happens, so I'm asking the Council of State to go back and look at it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e625	I believe it is a false description of reality to say that nothing is happening, but I think we just have to realize that neither the questioner nor the Council of State are experts on cleaning solutions or pollution control measures. At least I'm not – I'm not going to talk to the representative. It is best for professionals to make these assessments. It is clear that when the directorate contacts us and says that knowledge from the loop may be relevant here too, it is a responsible procedure to take it seriously, but it is to be done quickly, and it is to be done in consultation with the municipality. It says neither on will nor on money when it comes to implementing these measures, it's just to find the best and right solution for Folldal. There I think it's a broad consensus, and as I said, it's not like nothing's happened in ten years. Some measures have been taken, and now we're going to put the rest into place.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e630	It is not difficult to agree with the Council of States – I am no expert on this either. I understand that it is a very complicated run-off situation, and therefore it is also strange that the bureaucrats now use it with knowledge from the loop as a foundation, for it has been said in the past that each mine is so complicated in itself that you cannot transfer knowledge from one mine to another. Here you can use the reasoning a little bit. I also think the Council of State, which governs business for the day, should take very seriously that the Vice-President of Folldal, who is SV-representative, has been out saying that if it had been a private owner, it would not have allowed the time spent with the State as its owner. These are pretty serious accusations, and it makes sense by the very trust in our management society, so I ask the Council of State to at least use a lot of resources to follow up the situation and get speed on this right here.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e637	To the last one, I can assure you that we will. We're going to follow up the case, we're going to keep it up, and we're going to find a good solution for Folldal. I do not experience any kind of training from the directorate, I experience the same willingness to get solutions in place, but that there are some technical assessments to be made, and that will be done in cooperation with the Municipality of Folldal. I would also like to add that there will always be new technologies, new solutions, new knowledge, but it must not prevent us from implementing the measures we believe are best at the moment. We have to cut through and get a solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e648	This question, from the representative Tom Staahle to the Minister of Defence, has been transferred to the Minister of Labour who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e651	‘In Eastern Europe on 16 May we can read about an Afghanistan veteran’s struggle for compensation after being life-threateningly injured in service for Norway in Afghanistan. This fight has now been for almost 6 years. Is this something the Council of State believes that public Norway may be familiar with, and when will the soldier receive the compensation he is entitled to?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e658	We've just marked veteran's day on May 8th. The government has established the veto date for honoring all veterans and veteran families from World War II until today's international operations. After World War II, over 100,000 Norwegians have served in various international operations. Most have come home strengthened, but some have unfortunately been injured. These must be met with respect and properly and properly treated in the auxiliary equipment. I understand that some people who are injured in international operations may experience that it takes some time to deal with their cases. The representative’s question concerns professional damages. It is the State pension fund that deals with these matters for defence personnel. I cannot go into this matter specifically, but I can say a little about how these matters are dealt with. It is mainly the economic loss that is to be replaced. Final settlement shall be made when the probable permanent incapacity and the amount of annual expenditure can be determined. The compensation is settled in the form of a one-off payment for future loss of income and future expenditure. For young people it may take time from the damage to final settlement. This is because it is necessary to see how the damage stabilizes and how any training takes place before it is possible to clarify future working capacity. A future level of expenditure shall also be established based on the need for practical means. This depends on the rehabilitation and adaptation of the victim to a new life. During the course of the proceedings, a close dialogue has been established with the injured party and payments are made in the course of the procedure to cover current loss of income and expenditure incurred. I believe that the government has put in place good arrangements and measures that mainly meet the needs of the veterans after the end of their service in international operations. There is good cooperation between the various public authorities. Unfortunately, there are matters that take some time. This applies, inter alia, to: in cases involving young people in education.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e667	My speed in this room is quite short, but during the weeks I have been in and served as a representative, I have heard representatives of the government speak warmly about the efforts they make for our veterans. But when I register this matter in the Eastland, I have to say that there are a terrible number of words of honor and little action. The Minister of Defence said earlier that: «Veteran care shall not at least mean that those who have problems afterwards receive proper assistance at the right time.» It stands in stark contrast to what this soldier has experienced, which has now fought for six years. Does the Council of State consider Norway to be familiar with the use of honorary words and not provide the right action to ensure that these veterans are actually properly cared for?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e677	As mentioned earlier, I cannot go into this particular matter, but it will often be that matters that take a long time are matters where there is disagreement. In addition, there is often a long time to deal with cases where the degree of disability and residual working capacity is to be clarified. It is linked to the fact that it will always take some time before the body is healed and stabilised, and consequently the future health situation may be uncertain. The average processing time for major damage is about five years, precisely because of the circumstances I have previously explained.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e682	The subject of complaints dealing with the compensation scheme for injured soldiers has a significantly different understanding of how the regulation should be applied in relation to the State pension fund. What does the council responsible for this do to clean up, so that this soldier and other injured soldiers can get compensation at an earlier time and not have to wait six years?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e687	What we have done is to develop an action plan called ‘Serviced for Norway’. We have developed it in close cooperation with the organisations that represent people who have been involved in different operations. It consists of 126 actions and is interdisciplinary cooperation between the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Justice and Defence, the Ministry of Health and Welfare, the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Children, Equality and Inclusion. What is the starting point for some of these issues is that there are issues of residual working capacity. It will often take a long time to figure it out, because it is not necessarily clear when you have been injured how much residual ability you have. Some of the cases where there are major injuries take a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e705	This question is postponed to the next Question Time, as the Council of State is absent due to participation in the funeral.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e712	‘People living in Sweden who lose their jobs in Norway have financial problems as the waiting time for daily allowances is once again unacceptable. The problem has lasted for several years, despite the fact that the government is aware of the situation. I refer to written question No. 351 and Question Time Questionnaire answered on 23 March 2011. [[2012-2013]] Will the Council of State now increase capacity and, in cooperation with the Swedish authorities, ensure that the unemployed who are waiting are quickly paid their daily allowances?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e719	I believe that the issue concerns the issue of SED U1 – a certificate in the old regulation – to the transfer of day-to-day allowances for residents in Sweden. The certificate is a basis for the Swedish authorities to assess whether there is a right to the payment of daily allowances under Swedish legislation. The expected duration of proceedings is eight weeks per end of April, irrespective of country. In the last six months, the length of proceedings has varied from six to eight weeks. About 50 pst. of the applications received concerning this matter are missing the necessary documentation. It is difficult to complete these applications before the necessary documentation has been obtained, and there is an important reason why the time will not be shorter. The State of Labour and Welfare cooperates with the corresponding authorities in Sweden. Cooperation has a particular focus on improving the flow of information between countries, so that applications for daily allowances can be paid more quickly. The situation is that the Swedish authorities have direct contact with some of the users applying for the issue of SED U1. I hope that this contact can help increase the proportion of complete applications. Several complete applications will then reduce the duration of the procedure. The number of case handlers working on their issue has increased in recent years, and the length of proceedings has actually been substantially reduced from the 19 weeks to which Mr Giltun referred in written question No. 351 for 2010–2011. However, today’s eight-week trial period is still too long. In addition to working to increase the proportion of complete cases, the Directorate of Labour and Welfare has briefed me that they will assess, both in the organisation and staffing of this area, whether capacity is good enough. It is a challenge that the number of issues addressed by the Labour and Welfare Department in this area has increased significantly in recent years. The Directorate of Labour and Welfare has assured me that they are monitoring the development of the number of cases and see whether it requires strengthening the capacity of proceedings.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e730	I have to say that I am very satisfied with the answer, and it seems that the Council of State has followed up this matter. According to what I hear, it's eight weeks' waiting time. That is not in line with the enquiries I am receiving. I have been contacted by people who have waited 16 to 18 weeks after submitting complete application documents. The last time they contacted me, before I sent this question-time question, they learned that their case was no. Twenty-five in line. On the next enquiry, it had moved down to No. 121. The explanation was that when the matter was not dealt with within the deadline, they had placed it at the bottom of the pile. I don't understand why it's supposed to be so complicated for people who lose their jobs, to apply for a daily allowance. They are through a paper mill with applications and waiting times both at Nav Utland and Swedish «a-kassan» afterwards. Can't better cooperation help these unemployed to get these daily allowances faster?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e735	It is certainly not that if a case has not been dealt with within the deadline, it should be placed at the bottom of the pile. It is then that the matter that has been waiting a long time should be dealt with first. It is quite obvious, as the representative points out, that better cooperation with the Swedish authorities is the most important thing we can do in the process of bringing down the processing time on these matters. What is the situation is that we get a lot of Swedish workers to Norway. They do a very important job in the Norwegian labour market, but when the number of applicants has increased so much, there have been problems with Nav’s capacity. However, I am pleased that the procedure has fallen considerably. If this applies to all matters, it is not possible for me to comment now. Of course, I do not have the opportunity to comment on a single matter here from the Parliamentary Chair.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e742	The reason why I have not addressed this individual matter before is that you should not deal with individual matters here. But when this case pulled out like that in time, and I saw how these people were throwing balls in the system, I thought it was time to raise the matter again and get a little focus on it. Because this is not a problem that disappears. As the Council of State says, in Norway we have very many workers from Sweden — and also from other countries — and we must have capacity to adapt to the needs that will arise, even when these people lose their jobs. They have acquired rights – a guarantee of income via a daily allowance. It should come into force quite quickly after they lose their jobs. What happens is that Nav and, in the worst case, the social offices also get extra work, a lot of extra bureaucracy and a lot of extra requests, and the people get into an economic situation that can have consequences for them in the future. So I hope the Council of State will follow up this case and contact those who have to do with it, so that they get faster treatment – that there are no such things happening.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e747	I thank you for the question, because it is an important matter the representative focuses on. I can also assure the representative that the directorate is following this situation very closely to see if there is a need to strengthen the number of case handlers in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e756	The question to the Minister for Agriculture and Food is as follows: ‘According to a AgriAnalyse research report, both milk production and sheep farming result in significant losses with current agricultural performance and existing investment grant limits if they expand their activity with initial investment. With the report as a starting point, will the Council of State take the initiative to see whether there are production restrictions or agricultural subsidy schemes that also help to ensure that investment in increased capacity does not increase profitability?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e765	AgriAnalyse – formerly the Agriculture Investigation Office – aims to be a professional premiscuous provider and a competent investigative environment on agricultural and agricultural policy issues. There are many interesting and useful investigations from them to address agricultural policy issues and to debate. Research reports will be significantly influenced by a number of choices and assumptions included in the calculations. If other assumptions were chosen in the report, such as the representative Fleet denominator, e.g. that initial investment reduces labour consumption, the results would be different. The size covered in 2012 Communication No 9 on agricultural and food policy. The Communication sets out a number of policy objectives. Central here is, among other things, facilitating agriculture throughout the country with a view to food production, value creation, housing, employment and the preservation of the cultural landscape. In order to achieve good objectives, it is important and necessary and assess the whole of both objectives and instruments. It is therefore necessary, inter alia, to have a milk quota system that ensures that milk production is maintained in all counties and that subsidy schemes, which stimulate a varied use structure, are adapted to the geographical framework conditions that vary significantly in the country. I want to inform you that there are only a few farms that currently actually produce up to the milk quota ceiling. This means that most producers can increase their production in the current legislation through the purchase of allowances. For other bovine and ovine animals, there are no such production-regulating restrictions today. A majority of the Business Committee is committed to asking the government to facilitate good income development for active farmers — both large and small in scope. The main prerequisite for stimulating profitable investments is that output yields. I believe it is good evidence that the red-green government has followed up in a different way than the government before us. We have just carried out an agricultural settlement that increases the incomes of the agricultural industry by approx. NOK 31000 per year, which is more than for other groups. In the same agricultural situation, we have also made changes to investment instruments to stimulate initial investment. I would also like to remind you that the red-green government has increased the depreciation rate for livestock buildings from 4 to 6 pst. and amended the legislation to make the B grants depreciable in the district policy area. The agricultural budget item predicts an increase of 3.6 pst. in investments, excluding capital appreciation in 2013. This includes growth in building investment and almost unchanged investment in machinery and equipment. This is before this year's agricultural settlement, which I both hope and believe will contribute to increased optimism and even greater confidence in the future and investment in agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e776	I thank you for the answer, which is interesting enough. I believe that the Council of State does not place so much emphasis on research reports coming from AgriAnalyse because they do not take into account the whole of the government's agricultural report. But the essential thing here is, as the Council of State points out, that production must yield returns – not only must it yield returns, it must give the most return possible, so that it gives profitability to new investments and to increase just the income that is still under discussion and that we have just had a round in the context of the agricultural notification. I have to repeat my question: does the Council of State not see that there are at all production restrictions, distortions in subsidies, which make profitability worse?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e783	One of the most important things about the profitability of investment is that it is profitable to produce products. What we did now in connection with the agricultural settlement was a follow-up to the customs procedure we did last autumn that gave increased opportunities for price development, among other things. on milk, where we increased the target prices by 23 ears. The most correct way, I think, to contribute to industry's profitability is that people can afford to pay off the investment by making money on the products they produce. The change in customs was important to me and the government, because one could then have a price and an instrument in the future – that those who are capable and good producers are paid to be so, and that thus they also get the will and ability to make new investments.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e788	It's not the first time I've dealt with these things. As always, state councils are fleeing into a customs debate, but that's not what this is about. My question is whether the Council of State is willing to see whether there are any restrictions on production ceilings, regulation, in the arrangement of budget support that prevent it from exploiting capacity and getting full profitability. Because that's not what the Council of State says, that there's only price and subsidies that provide profitability. Of course, it contributes to profitability, but if there are restrictions that prevent the use of capacity in order to increase the return and profitability of single use, I cannot understand that it may be a problem for the Council of State to take an initiative to go in and at least look at it. He doesn't have to promise me any of the world's things other than that he thinks it's a good starting point.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e793	There is no doubt that for a milk producer who produces – let me say – 300,000 litres, it is for her or him a great advantage that you can get better money for your product. It gives better profitability. It's impossible to disagree with. It has contributed to the customs handling that Svein Flätten opposed, that we can now manage to get done. Then that's the other means we have of agricultural policy. I have a very practical relationship with it and make changes when it makes sense, like I do. did on the concession law for chicken earlier this winter, where I saw that there was a capacity, and there was the opportunity for the market to do so. But those who think that you can only change the concession laws blindly, are very wrong, because you see now, for example. in the pig industry, where we have overproduction, that the biggest challenge in this year’s settlement is the situation in pigs because they are unable to collect the target price, they get a higher turnover tax and lose a lot of money on it. Changes to the legislation on food production must be made very carefully so that it cannot contribute to overproduction problems, because overproduction is very expensive for the farmers who have invested in Norwegian agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e800	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-22.ana.ud309e813	There is no record. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
