ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e26	The representative of Laila Davøy will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e29	I am delighted to promote a proposal for a representative on behalf of the representatives of Øyvind Håbreek, Hans Olav Syversen and myself on the action plan for better parental cooperation after a break in life.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e34	So the representative, Dagrun Eriksen, wants to put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e37	It is an honour to make a proposal on behalf of the depositors Hans Olav Syversen, Line Henriette Hämdal, Geir Jørgen Bekkewold and myself to introduce a binding shareholder vote on directors' salaries in limited liability companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e42	The representative, Robert Eriksson, wants to put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e45	I am delighted, on behalf of the representatives of Gjermund Hagesetter, Per Sandberg, Jan Arild Ellingsen and myself, to put forward a proposal for the creation of a new war pension scheme for veterans who have participated in international operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e50	So the representative Gjermund Hagesetter wants to put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e53	On behalf of Per Sandberg, Åge Starheim, Morten Ørsal Johansen and myself, I am delighted to make proposals for representatives on measures to improve the infrastructure before drinking water supply and sewerage.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e59	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e71	On Monday the Stortinge received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State will meet Anniken Huitfeldt, Rigmor Aasrud and Marit Arnstad for oral Question Time. The state councils advertised are present, and we're ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative, Bård Hoksrsud.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e78	I guess it's not very hard to see who I'm going to ask questions about – it's for Minister of Transport Marit Arnstad. The Government presented its proposal for a national transport plan on Friday. All the government's startled ran around the cities and the towns and built and bragged homelessly about how well this was going to be. But many are going to be disappointed in the coming years, especially all those who run around the 44,000 kilometers of county roads we have every day. Much of the road network is about to rot. The asphalt is crumbling. It's a lot of holes. Bridges and tunnels must be repaired and upgraded. The maturity has now reached a staggering figure – a place between 45 billion. kr and 75 brd. kr. It's also almost 4,700 km of county road that lacks solid cover or asphalt. It corresponds to the route Kristiansand-Churches return. This should have been done a long, long time ago, and it shows an enormous need. On Friday, the Council of State said that the government's appropriations for the county councils of the new national transport plan will ensure that they stop the decline in the first few years. Then you're going to start resuming the maturity. It's going to be exciting to hear how and when the Council of State is going to take back the huge decay, when we know that only in the headquarters party leader Navarsette's home country, Sogn and Fjordane, it's 4 billion. kr. In the Nordic region, it's $7.8 billion due. kr. Only these two states alone have more in decline than all that the fallen government is going to grant money to and take back the next ten years. Then there are still 17 counties that haven't got one penny to reclaim their maturity. You don't have to be a mathematical genius to realize that it's going to take decades before you get rusted up the county road network to an acceptable standard. Governments should be disappointed to present a proposal for a national transport plan containing so little money in the coming years that the result will be poor county roads in the next few years. It is perhaps time for the Council of State to tell how long she thinks it is responsible to allow drivers, cyclists and pedestrians to wait before getting a good highway network to run on.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e91	It is true that the government presented the national transport plan on Friday. I understand that the representative of Hoksrud is not sinfully impressed. It's up to the opposition to criticize the government, so that's enough. I get to deal with things like, among other things, The NHO and the LO have said, and they are very pleased. They talk about this as a historically strong rise in traffic, which makes it possible to achieve faster the realisation of important road and rail investments, and to keep the level of operational and maintenance very high. In the proposal submitted by the government, it is clear that we address investments in the national road network, which is what NTP is all about. Then we address operations and maintenance. In the case of operations and maintenance, it is at a level approximately the level requested by the establishment. This means that in the case of the expiration of the highways, it is going to be very long over the next decade. Then the representative Hoksrud is concerned with the county roads. They are strictly not part of the national transport plan, because the county is currently the owner of the county roads. They do that in a good way. They've done that in a good way since they took over the county roads in 2010. They have chosen to invest more in the roads, and they have turned out to be a good owner, who is very concerned about that theme. It is true that earlier this winter there was a report on the maintenance on the county roads, which showed that it was a great aftermath. That report has contributed to the provision of funds from the country through the national transport plan in order to contribute to exceptional maintenance. This means that the states are going to be able to get help from the state to reduce the maturity, as well as the job they themselves are going to have to do in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e102	I note that the Council of State would not answer the question of when the drivers can actually expect to get a county road network that has an acceptable standard. How many years have the Council of State and this government been going to spend on this? Now I hope they don't have that many months left in the government offices, and that we can get a government that will make sure that the drivers get a good and real road network to drive on much faster than the government adds. I posted on Facebook that it should be Question Time today. There were several enquiries, both on my Facebook page and via SMS. People said, "Can't you tell them to look to get that asphalt out?" It says something about what people think about what's happening in this country, and how bad it is, both on the county road network and on large sections of the national road network. When is the Council of State going to make sure to take this maturity back? With 10 bn. It will take decades for the county road network to be restored. And then it's worked out a new maturity. 10 B.C.E. kr is nothing to shout for. There will be at least decades of bad road networks and challenges for the drivers.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e109	The representative Hoksrud knows that it's not just a 10 billion contribution. DKK, but a contribution of 17 billion. kr. This is because the government makes both a contribution that goes directly to the maintenance bit of the county roads and a contribution that goes to racial protection on county roads. This will lead to the improvement of a number of roads that need both maintenance and modernisation. So 17 billion. kr is what the State has set aside. It's going to be a significant contribution. But it is clear that the state is not going to assume the responsibilities of the states for roads owned by the states, but we are going to be able to make a contribution along with the efforts that the states had to make. Otherwise, Hoksrud is concerned that it will be better if the Progress Party comes to the government offices. I have to say that with excitement I am looking forward to what an overall opposition is going to offer of alternatives in transport policy, all the time Hoksrud and Right are diametrically disagreeing on some of the most fundamental issues in Norwegian road policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e116	Four follow-up questions are raised – first Arne Sortevik.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e119	For maintenance seats on highways, of 45 billion kr, sets the government of 10 billion. kr in the new NTP. It'll take almost 50 years at the government's pace to get away from it. The maintenance run on the county roads, which consists, to a substantial extent, of former state highways — up to two years ago — is 75 billion. kr. At the government's ten-billion-dollar pace. So in NTP it'll take almost 75 years to get rid of it. This last one is funds that are not even earmarked; it is included in the framework grant to county municipalities. In the case of this last grant to the county road network, it is allocated at least in the first part of the four-year period, where it is most urgent. Why does the government feel that it is no more urgent to provide consumers with well maintained roads? I remember that the last comment from Vegvesenet in the last fatal accident on the E16 was that there was a lack of money to secure the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e128	With the appropriations now granted for the operation, maintenance and renewal of the national road network, the State Road Service has estimated that it can be stopped during the first years of the period and it will be possible to reduce the downturn gradually during the period. It has never been possible to do so in the past in relation to any national transport plan. This is the first national transport plan where you can say professionally that you will be able to reduce the decay of the national road network. It's important, and that's good. It is also important that it was at the bottom of all the floors to bet on the operation and maintenance first – in all the options they proposed in their professional recordings. We have followed up on that council from the courts. The operating and maintenance side is approximately at the level proposed by the seaports and considered that they needed to reduce the maturity. In the case of the county roads, it is correct that it was included in the framework grant. The centre party and the government are not particularly pleased that this should be earmarked, it should be included in the framework grant. [[President clubs]] The counties will take priority, and the counties have given priority to the county roads in a good way. [[The President Clubs Again]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e137	Trond Helleland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e140	State councils should be allowed to continue their reasoning – then she can talk further afterwards. That's set by 10 billion. kr to the county roads. It is stated in the press release from Arnstad State Council: ‘We cannot assume that the county councils are able to re-engage in the maintenance of the county roads without an exceptional state funding.’ Therefore, the government proposes that 10 billion be spent in 2014-2023. Extra kroner. At the same time — a little further down the message — it says that the interest-rate compensation scheme will be removed. For Buskerud's sake, that means they're going to get 50 million. SEK and tape 92 million. kr. If you have 50 million. kr and a delay of 3,3 billion. in a state such as Buskerud, the county road network there will be repaired – if no further maturity occurs – in 2074. Is the state council satisfied with the violent effort it is put up to in the national transport plan to sort out the county roads – which the state left to the states in a terrible state?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e155	I record that the opposition is asking questions about what is not primarily a theme of the national transport plan, it may be because the national transport plan has been received quite well. Then you choose to ask questions about something else instead, namely the county roads – that's fine. It is quite right, as the press release states, that the state makes a contribution to maintenance for the first time. That's because for the first time you've mapped the decay of the county roads. Then we make an extraordinary contribution that I think will be important. It's right that it's made up of 10 billion. kr in a pot, it's 7 billion. kr for racial protection on the county roads, which will repair a number of county roads, consisting of 2 to 3 billion. kr in continued interest compensation to meet the obligations in the plan so far. But the state doesn't take over the county roads again. The size has decided that the counties shall be owners of the county road network. They are in a good way, and they invest large resources in this, also in maintenance.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e162	Ingunn E. Ulfsten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e165	I agree with the Council when she says that the states are doing this in the best way they can. In terms of the county roads, we now see that the government gives with one hand and takes with the other. Prior to the Central Party's national meeting, the government said it would grant 10 billion. kr, that several people have been in here today, plus 7 billion. kr as mentioned by the Council of State, distributed over 10 years. What the government did not say was that the state should withdraw significant amounts by removing the interest compensation scheme for transport measures in the counties. Does the council understand that many feel tricked by the red-green government when you just tell half the truth?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e174	No, it's hard to understand. The interest-rate compensation scheme – what remained on it between 2014 and 2019 – is 6 billion. kr. Three billion. Of these, SEK is still in the plan, and SEK 3 billion. kr has been transferred to maintenance. That means you have a total pot for maintenance of 10 billion. kr, which is a bag post, you have 7 billion. And then you have three billion dollars. kr remaining in the interest-rate compensation scheme. So you're going to have 20 billion. kr which the State makes in a contribution to the county councils to help with the county roads, of which the county councils are otherwise an excellent owner, where I fully agree with the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e179	Borghild Tenden – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e182	The left believes that the counties, as they are organized today, are not in a position to take the follow-up – as this round has shown – on our country roads. The left considers that we need to start looking at the county with a critical look, and we believe that we need to merge into larger regions, so that we can see the road network in a wider context and according to its priority. Does the Minister for Transport of the Central Party agree that the state structure, and to the extent that the municipal structure, are not appropriate to meet today's and tomorrow's challenges in transport as well as in other areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e191	I have to say that when I look at the experience from 2010 until today regarding the county's ability to take care of the county roads, they show that the counties are well able to do so with the structure you have today – both in counties and in municipalities. They have significantly increased the level of appropriations related to investments and maintenance on county roads. I mean, it's from 10 billion. NOK, when they took over, to SEK 14 billion. kr today. It's a considerable increase, and it's done with today's structure. It is difficult to see that one should somehow get several kilometers of repaired road by bringing together counties or municipalities. Having said that, I am not in principle opposed to merging municipalities, but I believe that this should happen on a voluntary basis. I believe that it should come as an initiative from the municipalities of the sea, and it should be done in such a way that they see themselves served by a merger, as one might say. have done in my county, where Mosvik and Indrey seas chose to join together. The central party, on the other hand, is strongly opposed by the state forcing municipalities and counties to join forces.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e198	Then we go to the next main question, from the representative Øyvind Halleraker – much indicates that the Council of State will keep its position in the hall, at least through another main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e201	Yes, the Council of State can stand still. A little comment on the debate that just happened: it was just to be lacking that the county councils were not given money now, after they had transferred so many bad roads to the county municipalities. I really have a question about something else in the NTP, which is going on project funding, that's something that has had a very unblemished destiny under this government. Once again, we're presented for some kind of quasi-design that's not the answer to the challenges. I have to admit that to the Right there was a question of whether the government made some new arrangements that could really give us solutions that are modern, in order to solve the big and important tasks we are facing, especially after the National Labour Party meeting in 2011, where they said they wanted to use project finance and their own project companies. So over the period we have received two-three projects with their own budget lines in the budget. These have now been proposed to be discontinued – it has obviously not worked. At the NTP press conference, we received a clear response: a prime minister from the Workers' Party talks this all the way down with faltering remarks that we are already financing projects, we are now running project funding. I guess the cat came out of the bag. The scheme we have received this year, a new scheme for specific priority projects, is also not this time project financing as we know it internationally. It is almost identical to the system we have today for toll projects, which this government is using very much. Then the question is – when Stolenberg says that we are already doing this today, and a Minister of Transport is making this quite new: what is the answer?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e218	First of all, let me say that the Prime Minister is quite right that this government has financed and granted so much more to transport than before that we have the opportunity to have rational progress on the projects and to make a coherent expansion in a completely different way than any government before we have had the opportunity. The Prime Minister is absolutely right about that. Then I think the government is now proposing a sensible arrangement. We propose a scheme in which a separate project organisation is created for individual projects, where the projects receive a separate allocation, where a separate decision is made in the Stortinget with a date of completion and an annual amount used for the various projects, and where one is also authorised to enter into binding contracts with the contractors. Then I think it should be well-placed to get even more coherent and good implementation of projects. I may have suspected the representative to believe that as long as one is not willing to agree to proposals made by the Right on OPS, one is also not involved in project organisation and financing. It's not like that. Part of the benefits actually available at OPS in the case of organisation is possible to be taken out in public. There is just some of the government's plans, both up along Mjösa, where we now have joint projects, and probably on Helgeland in the future, where one could look at the possibility of the same builder being responsible for development and for later operations and maintenance. There are many opportunities to organise things well and efficiently, and I also believe that the government is making sensible proposals in the NTP that was presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e227	I understand very well Arnstad's defense and enthusiasm for this. We've seen that throughout the period. The central party has opposed the Workers' Party, and we remember very well the Melting Party Kleppa versus Johnsen in these debates. It is said that it is a new order. If you read what is written in a small font, there are many ‘if’, ‘can’ and ‘possible’. And then we have the Labour Party resistance that wakes up in the background. This does not promise well, and all the organisations and trade unions that are calling for this will probably be disappointed this time as well. I want to go back to what is the difference between a toll-funded solution – where you set up your own project organisation, you have transparent funding, you have your own decision in Stortinget – and other solutions. We see that in the long list of projects in NTP – over 700 million. kr – only two projects do not have the toll financing element in themselves. That is, we actually have that arrangement today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e237	I'm actually not very concerned with comparing different arrangements with each other. I am concerned that one should have a rational progress on that one based on road here in the country. I am concerned that one should have the most continuous development possible. Basically, we know that the most important thing to get it in place is a good resource framework and sufficient resources. This government has contributed to this over the last few years, and we will contribute to this in the national transport plan in the future. Then we add up to a sensible system that might be wise to use in some projects. It can be done, among other things: to enable contractors to enter into binding contracts, to set an end date for the extension, and also to fix the annual amounts by means of a decision making decision. There is a reasonable framework around what is required for rational progress and continuous expansion, and that is the whole main point.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e242	Four follow-up questions are raised – first Ingerd Schou.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e245	When the transport committee met the colleagues in Sweden, we were met with laughter as we explained how we had a clumsy development of the road network in Norway. The Swedes said that it was no wonder that we did not get it, as we had planned both planning and development. My question to the Council of State is: Will the government leave more of the details of the trade union in terms of planning and construction, so that we get this complete, continuous development of the road network in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e250	I believe that in Norwegian transport policy you can never deprive Stortinget of the opportunity to discuss and make decisions on important transport projects. This policy area is strongly anchored in Stortinget, and I notice, not least when I meet in question hours and debates, that there are very many in the Stortinget who are concerned about it. I expect them to be in the future, too. There is one important proposal in the transport plan that will lead to some smaller projects no longer coming to political attention: it concerns the threshold for projects mentioned in the budgets, which we raise from 50 million. kr today to 500 mill. kr on the railway, and up to 500 mill. kr also by road. This means that there will be more of the major projects discussed politically. But I think we have to recognise that in Norway the debate on transport policy is a very important political debate. The different parties on the Storting will want to give their way into that debate, and I think it is also right and important that they should do so. That's why I don't think a person can leave this to colleges alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e257	Ketil Solvik-Olsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e260	Either one talks about public toll projects or private OPS financing, both are the two ways of building roads in a way to circumvent the rule of action. A borrower borrows money, primarily in the rest of the world, at an interest rate higher than that which the oil fund receives when it saves abroad, in order to build that path. It seems that the Progress Party is a poor solution. The focus of the national transport plan was precisely this with project funding. There the Minister of Transport says that the progress of the projects determines the appropriations, not the other way around, and that is very uplifting. This means that if a road company manages to build the road twice as quickly as one thought, the appropriations will also have to be twice as high each year. When you have a finance minister and a prime minister who says you should have an exact figure on annual government budget appropriations, and suddenly you should be able to double the appropriations for a road project, maybe from 2 to 4 billion. kr, will break the decision taken by the Storting because one does not receive an exact sum. We in the Progress Party are comfortable with that, if you get better funding going, but then the question is: Is the Minister of Finance doing that?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e265	It does not help to ask the Minister for Transport what the Minister for Finance is satisfied with, and perhaps the Minister for Finance should have been here. But first let's think about this with OPS projects and toll projects, because I don't entirely share the view of Solvik-Olsen that it comes about in one place. The bonds to OPS projects on future government budgets last more than 30 years and reduce the freedom of action of future governments in a way that I believe is very unfortunate and devastating. In addition, the interest rates on the OPS projects we have so far carried out are twice as high as the average interest rate on toll projects in 2011, for which I think we have also previously provided information to Solvik-Olsen. With regard to the foreseeable funding proposed in the NTP, we are advised to provide the Stortinget with quality assured figures in such a way that a cost framework is carefully reviewed before it is submitted. We imagine that one then determines a commitment that one must stay within the entire period.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e274	Dagrun Eriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e277	There is no doubt that road projects do not have the very best reputation in our country. I think it's a pleasure to hear the Council of State here talk about the need for rational progress and predictable funding, and that it's just about fulfilling the transport plan, that's all. When we look at the current transport plan, we see that two-thirds of all new road projects are delayed after four years, and three-quarters of new rail projects are delayed. This shows that it might not be the best way to finance, what the government has put its trust in. Now a concession is made in respect of the very largest projects, but with many ‘if’ and ‘may’ projects, as the representative Halleraker underlined. But the great concern of the Christian People's Party is: how can we manage to do it on every project – so that the money we actually grant us will make us go more – when the Council of State and the Government are so sceptical about getting a different form of funding on the small road projects?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e282	Firstly, I think that we have proposed a sensible scheme for some projects in the category of priority projects. Then I am, and have always been, concerned about the question of getting the most back for the money. It is not just about more predictable funding, it is also about a number of other things, and we are also talking about it quite broadly in the NTP. These include: that one is able to improve efficiency through the coordination of development. The state road authority will provide some coordination sections, as we call it, where one has a joint call for tenders and project development management. It can be used for both larger and smaller distances. I think it is very important that we set efficiency requirements for the agencies in the future, so that they make the job as effective as possible and get the most for the money that has been given. So I also think – which we are concerned about in the NTP – that one of the steps we need to take is to reduce planning time. Not least, it is important for smaller projects that planning time is not so extensive.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e289	Borghild Tenden – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e293	I have to admit that I have still not fully understood how the arrangement of the government will lead to reduced costs, more predictability and faster progress. Governments mentioned priority projects. In the NTP, the government states that Oslo-Follo and the remaining intercity sections are to be considered as so-called priority sections, but that priority sections must be a limited part of the overall railway budget. My question is: why does the government not already clarify that intercity expansion is a priority project? And can we end up with the government dividing up the different sections of the different projects according to different priorities?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e302	Intercity deployment is, to the most extent, a priority project. In this national transport plan, the government has set out a progress plan for the different parts of intercity development, where we also state quite clearly when we think about the different parts of this plan completed. Intercity development is already in full swing. Further appropriations for rapid implementation and rapid development of what is going on are also very important. The fact that intercity expansion should not be a priority, I believe is an incorrect claim. It is right that, in terms of the foreseeable funding, Oslo-Ski, that is, Folloban, is one of the candidates for such a scheme. And then we're going to evaluate in the future whether other parts of the intercity sections can be candidates for this. What has been important for the government is that in each part of the country you look at one project that is important for the country, starting from it. That means there could be sections on E39, it could be Follobanen, and there could be measures in Trøndelag and in North Norway that from the start are part of the scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e311	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e314	I have a question for the minister of the church. The church meeting has just been held, and its theme has been ‘People’s Church – Church People’. In connection with the previous topic we talked about, transport and road projects, not having such a good reputation, we now see that the Church's reputation has been greatly strengthened. It is now more than half of the Norwegian people who respond to an investigation that they think the Church's reputation is good. That's why there was enough expectation in the Church Meeting to be recognized for the people they actually are. After seeing state councils on election tours around the country – with leaks, with promises, with money in the bag – I think there was an expectant crowd in the Church meeting. But they were probably relatively disappointed, because the councillor came, she spoke, and she went. Finally, it is said that it was due to poor communication solutions — but it belongs to another government council — in the case of South Africa. But it was enough in the Church Meeting a great disappointment that there were no promises in the bag about that in order to maintain a close relationship between people and church, the Norwegian Church needs an improved economy. Then is my simple question to the Council of State, which is now going to have a new chance to calm the Norwegian Church and the Church people: with the red-green in position even after the elections, what expectations can the Norwegian Church have in the economic field?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e325	It was an interesting church meeting to be allowed to attend. Fortunately, the Church meeting has also introduced new forms of communication. It was possible to follow the Church meeting, even if one did not sit in Kristiansand and followed the debate directly from there. I agree that it is great that the Norwegian Church has a good reputation among the population. I think we all saw that after the tragic situation on July 22, 2011, many people searched for the church and used the church rooms as good places to be in a demanding situation. It is such that every year the government presents its budget in October. In addition, we will review the budget in May, if there are things that have arisen that make it necessary. Then we have some other venues to present our long-term plans. The national transport plan is such a case, which we have now submitted, and which – as many have already mentioned here – has been well received. What an economic framework The Norwegian Church will have in the state budget for 2014 and in the future, we will present it at that time. But I can promise the representative Dagrun Eriksen that we are still going to bet on the Norwegian Church – make sure that we get the religious training out to all parts of Norway. Then we also have to look at how the Norwegian Church is organized. We have to look at whether the proste reform has worked as intended, and we have to look at some other arrangements. This is obviously work that we are going to complete in the years ahead we are going to sit in the government offices.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e336	It could be an interesting campaign if all the election vows from the red-green end and everyone just comes to say that they can't say anything – they're waiting for the budget in October. It's a big challenge. The Council of State noted that due to other methods of communication, the debate at the Church meeting could fortunately be followed. That is perhaps one of the major challenges facing the Norwegian Church. They can get to the streaming of the Church meeting, but there are major challenges in ICT and the way to communicate with the rest of the country. The Council of State referred to faith training. There is no doubt that there is great frustration in the Norwegian Church, both because the government took a break in the budget for 2012, and that there are still many congregations that have not been allocated any of the funds that they were promised ten and eleven years ago. When does this come from the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e345	It is correct that the Stortinget decided that we should have a stepping-up plan related to the training reform. We're not done with that yet. When we present the future budgets, we will deal with how we will complete the financing of the faith training reform. I have challenged the Church meeting – with which the representative Dagrun Eriksen is known – that I am also concerned that we need to look at the content of the religious education reform. When we have a reform of faith training, it is to replace the teaching of Christianity in school. It is then important that the content of the reform of religion also reflects that responsibility. I think it is important that we ensure that we have a reform of faith training that meets the objectives set by the Stortinget for its allocation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e352	Three follow-up questions are raised – first Geir Jørgen Bekkevold.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e355	I live in Skien. For many years I worked as a priest at the Gjerpen Church, an ancient medieval church from 1153. During the 850th anniversary, we experienced the tragic fact that the church was burning. Just a few years ago, they experienced the same thing in the neighbouring municipality of Porsgrön: the Eastern Porsgrön church burned down to the ground. I mention this because the government in the 2013 budget chose to remove the interest compensation scheme, which would stimulate municipalities to have greater pressure on securing and maintaining church buildings. Only in the case of fire and safety, 1 billion is needed. kr. The maintenance run is also included. My question is, why does this government focus so little on preserving the important signal buildings and cultural wearers that the churches represent?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e364	I do not agree that there has been little focus on this. Through a strengthened municipal economy, we have contributed to a significant increase in the maintenance of churches. The municipal sector is responsible for the operation of the local church and for the maintenance and construction of churches. Since we joined the government, the appropriations for church purposes have been more than doubled in the municipal sector. It shows that the government has provided more money for the maintenance of the churches both by providing municipalities with a good economy and through the priorities of the elected authorities. We were in the situation before Christmas last year that we had funds left for the post we had for the interest compensation scheme. It didn't seem like it was interested in the system, and then it's quite natural that you think it's a superfluous system. Then we are in a situation now that, after the scheme was terminated, new applications have been made, and then, of course, we will look forward to the budgets we are going to present in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e371	Bente Thorsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e375	The party of progress has taken the Church's economic situation seriously to preserve the Church. We have proposed to strengthen the Church's economy for religious education, ICT, the services of the past, maintenance and fire protection of church buildings. Some of the most important and beautiful buildings we have in this country are actually the churches. They have great value and importance both in religious practice and as an important part of our culture. Too many people also have great significance for the content and availability of the Church. With this government we experience that many of our old, beautiful churches are about to rot. Church members experience reduced access to both the church room and to priests. It is clear that the Church and the Council of State have a very different view of the Church's economic situation. The question is, what does it take for the Council of State to meet any of the Church's needs?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e380	I believe the government has met many of the Church's needs, and I do not recognize myself in the description by the representative Thorsen here. I meet many church organs every week, I meet great activity and people with optimism, and I don't share the black paint representative Thorsen here. We have increased the appropriations for the Norwegian Church considerably. We have also increased the appropriations for the maintenance of church buildings – as I said – by providing municipalities with a strengthened economy, and this has resulted in many church buildings being rehabilitated. New church buildings are being built and churches are being rehabilitated in large monasteries. Only lately have we opened an amazing cathedral in Alta. I was in Bodø on Sunday, there was the dedication of a new organ. There is a lot going on in Norway on the church front because municipalities have been given more money, and through it the joint councils have also been given more opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e387	Svein Harberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e390	I have to go back to where Dagrun Eriksen was in his question to the Council of State. The council said that in some areas there are long-term plans and that's not the way it is here. Well, belief training was such a long-term plan, it's just that that plan has been drawn out in time, and it's stopped. There, the Council of State has something concrete and long-term she could relate to. After attending the Church Meeting a couple of days, I can underline the despair, which is combined with a great commitment and willingness at the Church Meeting. It was nice to see that the Church has taken seriously its new situation, is committed to democracy and has the will to do something – and then the frustration of the lack of resources. As far as ICT is concerned, the Church is required to do a job. They have prepared it, obtained a tender, and then the money did not come. The last time limit for making use of the tenders they already have has been revised. I think I'll give the council a new opportunity for a slight leak.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e399	I guess no one has ordered the Norwegian Church to make the concrete solutions they have made, but we have contributed money to a preliminary project. It is important that a complex organisation such as the Norwegian Church, where it is both local level and central level in a rather demanding form of organisation, create schemes that have sustainability over time. If an ICT solution for the Norwegian Church is to be sustainable, we need to ensure that the local councils also connect to the solution. I believe that there is still a need to go a few rounds before we are absolutely sure of that. It is also the case that every organisation has the opportunity to redeploy funds within its own budgets, and we have had a dialogue with the Norwegian Church on other funding methods. Much of the ICT effort is now being deployed will be financed by loans, and there are also opportunities to do so in relation to the parts of the ICT initiative for which government funding is sought. There are no leaks from the audited from my side today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e404	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e407	My question also goes to the minister of the church. Many people want and need the pastor to be available in his most vulnerable and important situations in life. The pastor also has many important tasks, such as providing mental care, going on sick and home visits, being a resource for volunteers in the congregation and otherwise engaged in public service activities. I record that there are now some places where a relatively new queue has been created, and that is actually within tombs. In an increasing number of cases, people have to wait several days beyond the scheduled time before being buried, despite the recent decision by the Stortinge that the deadline for funerals has been extended from seven working days to no later than 10 working days after death. The majority also considered that the extension of the deadline should give greater opportunity to meet the wishes of the relatives and take human considerations both in the case of early burial, and in the case of those who need a little longer time. Today's situation with waiting and cooling is not at the request of relatives, but simply because of lack of performance. When you have such choking, it goes beyond the other important tasks of the clergy toward the congregation and the members of the church. One of the reasons for this is not least that Norwegian priests have more than 1 000 members per pension than their colleagues in Sweden and Finland. The Progress Party wants to help church members get a level of service with just Sweden and Finland. Does the Council of the Churches share the concern of the Party of Advancement for the link we are now receiving feedback on? What will the Council of State do to get away from the tomb and avoid this becoming a permanent practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e414	It surprises me that the representative Thorsen says that there has been a queue for burial. I have had meetings with both the Church Council and the Presbytery for the past week, and there are no issues that have been reported to me in the meetings we have had, so a comprehensive problem I don't think it can be. But it can be arduous to adapt to the wishes of both the relatives and the services available. We did a great reorganization of the services in the Norwegian Church a few years ago by giving the priests a greater responsibility for the services in their prostis, where the priests also have to be used in a way that allows them to reach out on the church acts to be carried out. There has been no increase in the number of church members in recent years, so there is no new situation related to the fact that more people need church acts. Rather against it, there are some church acts in which there has been a decline – especially marriages. There is nothing in the current situation that would indicate that we get something more than previously. We are not sure how the proste reform of 1997 has worked, so my department will now take the initiative to evaluate it to see if the scheme has worked properly, and even if it is able to use the available capacity in the best possible way. What's been good lately is that we actually have priests who fill the posts. For many years, getting priests into the districts was a challenge. Now we have ordained priests in almost all positions, and it shows that there has been both the ability and the will of the councils to be able to employ in the positions that are vacant, and also that there has been an economy for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e423	I thank you for your answer. I would like to refer you to a review in Tidens Körp on 12 April, which will well illustrate how the relatives experience that the performance service is not comprehensive. The municipality of Kristiansund has not been able to keep the tomb law for the last time. The family reacts that it takes more than two weeks before the funeral takes place. The Church Army says that they have tried to buy services, get others to dig, but it should also be a pastor and an organist for each ceremony. I'm recording that the Church Army says she thinks the problem is just for a short time, she doesn't say she knows. Whether this situation is short or long-term, it is not sustainable. We have also received the same feedback from several relatives elsewhere in the country because of the lack of a priest to perform at the funeral. This just isn't good enough. It is clear that the clergy have too many members to care for. What will the Council of State do to try to avoid this for the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e432	As I said, I'm not familiar with the concerns that Thorsen's representative brings up here. I'm going to check to see if there's a lot of traffic jams around the country. As I said, I'm not familiar with that. We have to get knowledge of it and see if there are actions that can be implemented if there is something related to particular geographical areas. There may have been sick leave or other things that have made you in such a situation. I am not familiar with this, and then I must be allowed to investigate the situation in more detail.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e437	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first Per Sandberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e441	First, I would like to say that it is very constructive that the Council of State is following up on the concerns that arise. There are probably different situations around the country. And what we all agree on is that a good and stable pastoral service is a prerequisite for the Church to remain a people's church. Now, as the Council of State also says, we're going to get an evaluation of the proste reform, and that's good. If it is now that the Council of State discovers that there are different economic conditions and different access to priests around the country, there are some minor changes and measures that can be taken quickly. Then my question is whether the Council of State is interested in being able to look at, for example. greater use of seniors in the Church. There are many pastors who have stopped but want to continue their work. There are many pastors who are now retired, who are retiring and performing part-time victories, but who are then coordinated in terms of pay and pensions. Are the Councils interested in looking at this coordination?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e448	Now we're going into a pay settlement, and it's the employee organisations and employers that are negotiating these issues. I and the government have said that if the employee organisations want to discuss new pension-related schemes, we are ready to do so. I have not registered that any of the employee organisations have promised this into the year's settlement, which is also an interim settlement. Then I agree with Per Sandberg's representative that it's important that we use the seniors. And if that's what we've actually done in the state sector, it's taking care of our seniors. Also priests make a great effort. They're willing to work and contribute in a lot of ways. You can make good use of that workforce, and there are many dioceses, who have an active senior policy, so that more people are working according to their usual retirement age. I very much welcome the fact that seniors, including pastors, stand in the position longer.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e455	Svein Harberg – to the next follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e458	State councils are familiar with both employers and employees in the Church that there is a high pressure on the clergy and that in many places they are reported to need more. Today, the number of members per clergy is the parameter. So in many places in the country, this varies for different reasons, for example. large places of study, where there is a greater number of young people who can have the potential for activities and follow-up. We have just completed a Easter. Then it is that in many places the usual activity is maintained in the churches. In addition, there must be many activities in the mountains. I myself live in a district in the South, where the population triples in the summer. This is not taken into account. Will the Council of State look at new ways of calculating the performance density, so that the clergy can get a good working life and we can ensure the recruitment of the profession?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e467	During this period, we have carried out the great church settlement. Now the church's own democratic bodies are to be given greater authority to both distribute the economy, distribute the resources and think more in the long term. In this state budget, we add the economy to the councils of bishops, but I'm not a stranger to the fact that in the future we will have the Church Meeting and the Church's central bodies dispose of the funds in a way that makes them also responsible for the distribution of the individual dioceses. This will also allow such questions to be addressed in the assessments on how they allocate resources. But it's clear that it's demanding when we have population decline in large parts of District Norway, where there are fewer parishioners per clergy, to be able to move those resources into those areas where we have a lot of growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e472	Dagrun Eriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e475	Let me first say to the Council of State's answer to me in a previous questioning round, where she now wants to focus on the content of the training of faith. I think maybe those who are in line to get into the reform of the Faith Training must first get in before you start thinking about content. So to this question of priests. I've heard the Council of State say on several occasions a little bit of the same thing as she says today, that there's been more money allocated to performances, and that the church acts go down. So she leaves the impression that everything is really on a good level in the Norwegian Church. But it's more complicated than that. In addition, it has now been ensured that the clergy have five-day weeks in the same way as other workers. This has contributed to the fact that we need even more jobs than the annual government budgets have been able to cover. Does the Council of State see that this is still a major defect in the Norwegian Church, or does she think everything is in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e484	When the proste reform was carried out and the changes in working time were made for the priests, it was compensated for by its own appropriations. I don't think we have any challenges in the performance of the Norwegian Church, because we have very big demographic changes that make big pressure on the big cities. That's something we have to look at. But then I also think it is important that we stick to the fact that the proste reform is important in order to use priests in the most appropriate way possible, get good tournaments where you work in certain ways. There I still think there's something to pick up. Therefore, we need to evaluate the proste reform and see if there are other ways we can organise the service, but I also see that there is a need for increased efforts to maintain a church in all parts of the country. It's demanding the changes we're facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e489	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e492	I have a question to the State Council Anniken Huitfeldt. I see that the «Type of» Council of State is not present, and that is good, because then we dare in the opposition to lash out a little! Voice recognition is a program that calculates a cost of 13 million. kr can give very many people a new chance in working life. In April 2012, Nav completed a review of the case. Then nothing happened in the department. So the right of my committee colleague, Sylvi Graham, raised the matter in January of this year. Then nothing happened to the matter. Then something happened, which I have noticed often causes the Council of State to respond, namely that the press intervened in the matter. Then suddenly there was action in the department – or action and action Mrs. Blom! I quote from a post that Secretary of State Cecilie Bjellland had in Today's Business a few weeks ago, where she writes that the department "has noticed the positive involvement of the study has triggered". Then things get fast. Then, almost a year and a half later, the Ministry shall take «an initiative to look at the possibility of cross-ministerial cooperation». – In other words, a year and a half after getting an investigation from Nav, where there is a tool that’s worth 13 million. kr could help a very large number of people in, so the Ministry will take ‘an initiative to look at the possibility of working together across the department’. That's a little bit of an initiative! I mean it literally – it is so small that it can hardly be called an initiative. That's how you'd think it wasn't election year.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e507	In the case of facilities for disabled persons, whether hearing aids or wheelchairs, Nav never goes in and supports single actors developing a project. In that case, it would be contrary to the law on public acquisitions. What is possible, on the other hand, and one way we can help this project is to be a potential buyer, because this is an important product. It can help people who have difficulty using their arms or who have severe problems with reading and writing can get their speech converted into writing. Therefore, this product is a proper and important instrument. The real question is, how can we get this going? And then Nav can't say that as a commercial actor you can get money directly to develop this tool. But there are some other ways to do it. One is something that has increasingly been used in the health sector, namely an innovation scheme in Norway dealing with public research and development contracts. In this way, a commercial operator working on developing an instrument can be funded. If we're going to support an actor working on the development of a voice recognition device, we have to put this on the market. Nav can't say you're going to get $13 million. kr to develop this for them. Then there's another problem. It is linked to the language bank, to which they will have access. We need to look at the legal basis – whether it is possible to develop it for commercial purposes. So yes, this is a very good product. But no, Nav can't go directly in and give money to a commercial actor. That's why we have to find other ways to do this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e515	I fully understand that, but that is not what the opposition has asked for either. What the opposition has asked for is to do something, and the government and the ministry have done nothing for a year. It's not the first time the Council of State comes to Stortinget to explain everything you can't do. It's happened before, for example. in the debate on interpretative services, where the government decided to reverse a code that allowed users who were deaf-blind to follow out on skirmishes or to operate chess games. Nothing happened when the opposition took it up. It was only when the press knocked on the door that the council decided to respond – then also late. As stated in the Fädrelandsvennen today: «Consider confirms the ministry». We had examples where many Nav users had been given – let's call it – wheelchairs, with a small electric motor. The road authority then suddenly said that this was a small moped. Then the council also came and told them that this was extremely difficult to do with. The opposition took it up, nothing happened. Only when the press knocked on the door did the council do something about it. This is not like a powerful state council with executive power, but a media minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e520	It is obvious that the Right does not have any suggestions on how to help develop this tool through the law we have today, but that this is just a way to launch a political discussion. What was very important in the matter that was about him who couldn't get the bike was that the Minister of Transport settled down. Nav knew about it, we worked on the matter, and we got a pass. So I think it's important that we also follow up on things that individuals take the initiative to do. The representative will notice that I am getting a number of enquiries from individuals that we never have a word about in the press, in which we sort things out. It is not always that the legislation is practised in a way that we are satisfied with, and then we, as politicians, intervene in these matters. When it comes to the case of the deaf blind, I can answer it if I get more additional questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e527	Three follow-up questions are raised – first by the representative Jan Tore Sanner.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e530	Now three concrete examples were presented. I could add a fourth, which is about the phasing out of tax deductions for large disease costs. This also creates problems for many people with disabilities who are at work. The problem with the government's inaction and lack of implementation in this field is that it has consequences for people. If we look at the proportion of people with disabilities who are at work, it has never been lower than it is now. The number has fallen below the red-green government. If we look at young retards, the number goes up, and it goes up more than it's done in a long time. There was a bureaucrat in the Ministry of Culture who wrote in an article that the problem is that you get more involved in the process than in the result. Is that what we see when the government lacks implementing power to obtain facilities that can help disabled people to get into work?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e539	In the case of people with disabilities at work, the right statistics use a little special. The truth is that the proportion of those who themselves report to the SSB that they are disabled has fallen from 17 pst. to 15 pst. by the population. So right calls that there are now fewer and fewer people with disabilities in work. It's a way to use the statistics that's not very credible. Ten years ago, young felons were 1,2 pst. - The same as it is today. We have a lot of implementing power to get more people into the world of work. We have Europe's lowest youth unemployment rate. That is why 25 labour ministers from all over Europe came to Norway for, among other things. to learn how to conduct labour market policy in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e546	That's not what this question is about.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e551	We have a good social policy, and we have a good implementation force in incorporating more people into work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e556	When I hear the Council of State's response, it's clear that the Council of State acts more like a case manager in the administration than a politician who is interested in solving everyday problems for a group of people who have major challenges and major problems. It is right that the representative of the Red Isaacs repeated from this pulpit: we see a systematic down-priority of the weakest in the welfare policy of the current government. In the case of deaf-blind people, young people with disabilities who do not receive assistance at the age of 26 in order to get into activity and leisure, and we now see this especially in the case of highly disabled children and young people for voice recognition. A unanimous magnification has said that we're going to get this in place. Kristin Halvorsen, a member of the Government's government, has said that this should be done. We're talking about $13 million. SEK – 13 million. SEK for employment and social purposes of a total budget of 360 billion. kr. When can we expect the government to comply, follow up and put in place the voice recording system?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e563	I have explained this quite thoroughly – how we can follow the law on public acquisitions and at the same time contribute to the development of this project. But it is not that I can take money that is set aside for retirement, or that is regulated for sick pay, and say that this should automatically go to voice recognition. We have now introduced several measures to get disabled people into the labour market. These include: on Group 2 car, which has been a matter for many in this room, which can help more people to get into work. It is about work and education trips for the disabled, which can help more people get into work. There has never been such an offensive policy to get more disabled people into work as what we have now arranged for.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e570	Let me give you a fifth example of punctuality. This applies to user-controlled personal assistant who should have arrived as early as 2005. The government has now sold it out as if it were coming. But what has really just come is a hearing with a very long consultation period, until 1 August. This case will not be resolved during this downtime period. Back to the speech recognition program, so it can enable thousands of people with different challenges to operate computers, which is a prerequisite for participation in the world of work. There's a lot of examples of that. The potential for saved social security costs is enormous. Nav has requested the program a long time. What I feel the Council of State is doing is problematizing. It is the same for both wholesale and disabled representatives whether Innovation Norway or others facilitates, and how to do so. But when will it come? Has the department started? When do you start the process? When's it coming?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e577	If it is that the Christian People's Party has very good suggestions on how we can contribute to the development of such a programme, which is within the scope of the law on public procurement, I am grateful to receive the concrete proposals. But what matters to us is that we relate to this law. There are many types of tools and many kinds of tools that Nav is the buyer of, but it has never been such that Nav has given money to actors who have developed these tools. We'll try to follow the law and contribute to the development of this tool, and Nav will also be the buyer of such a tool, but we have to do this legally when we're going to acquire the tools. It's a very important tool that I think many people will be able to benefit from.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e583	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e599	‘In February 2013, the Ministry of the Environment is a member of the National Parks Board of Skarvan and the National Park of Roltdalen. On the board of directors are the spokesmen of the four municipalities, two representatives of the county council and three representatives of the council. There are no representatives of the landowners or users in this area. This testifies to a lack of respect for private property rights. Why are not the landowners and those with rights of use in the National Parks Board, and what will the Council of State do to correct this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e611	I'm very pleased with the commitment attached to the new scheme of local management of our protected areas. The Protected Area Government has the power to manage national and international values on behalf of all of us. It is important that the administration of national parks and the other major protected areas have legitimacy in local communities. I believe that the model of local administration for which the Stortinget was involved through the management of the Ministry of the Environment's budget proposal in 2009 is well maintained. The model opens for local adjustment of the composition of the control if specific circumstances exist. When I enumerate control, I consider in each individual condition how the board should be put together. We have been careful to give fundamental owners or other user interests the same image as elected representatives of the administrative board. The reason for this is that, if landowners are given such a picture, there may be questions of viability. The Administrative Board is dependent on having confidence in all interest groups. It's only on the board of the Breheimen and Reinheimen National Parks that there are non-political members. In Breheimen, Skåk Almenning is represented because their ownership is over 50 pst. by the National Park. In Reinheimen, the Ottadalen villreinutval is represented because of its particularly important role in this national park. I have made a thorough and concrete assessment of the composition of the board for Skarvan-Roltdalen. I have found that there are no specific reasons why the basic owners should be represented on that board. In the case of Sami representation in areas of Sami interest, I would like to point out that Norway has approved ILO Convention No. 169. Norway is committed to ensuring Sami participation in the use, management and conservation of natural resources in the Sami region. Skarvan-Roltdalen is such an area. In consultation with the Sametinget, we have agreed that the Sametinget should point out three representatives on the board of Skarvan-Roltdalen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e626	I thank you for your answer. I saw in the Nation on April 12 that the Council of State would look at the landowners' representation in this area one more time. I see that as a positive opening to look at it, and I also expect the Council of State to follow up the promises contained in the lookup in the nation. I also record that he says that the arguments about including the landowners are good. We know that one sixth of mainland Norway is protected, and the landowners are not represented in these protection regimes. Right means that the landowners and people with rights of use are in a special position to be represented on the National Park Board. Respect for property law also creates respect for protection. The landowners and those who have rights of use have managed these areas in such a way that the big community sees the value of it, and the big community wants to protect it. It happens with the background that the basic owners manage their property in a good way. Does the Council not see that the landowner is in a special position in order to be part of the National Park Board?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e637	The issue of ownership representation is important and is assessed on a case-by-case basis. I intend to follow up on what I said about it at the U.S. Annual Meeting, which is mentioned in the Nations, to look closer to those questions. But what's my point is that there's a very big difference between the different areas of protection. When it concerns the area of protection that was more specifically identified when I was at the USS national meeting, which is mentioned in the case of the nations and concerns the Trollheim shelters, there is – if I am not mistaken – so that there is a private landowner who owns all the land, at least much of the land, there. If so, for example. looking at Skarvan–Roltdalen, as the representative asks, it is that the state base is around 70 pst. It's a very different situation. It's the state that's the most sovereign landowner. That's why I think in that case we've taken the right decision about the board.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e644	I thank you for your answer. Then we have actually received two answers. The one thing is that one should look at the representation, and the other is that one thinks that one has set up that board in the right way. It is not in accordance with the expectation that one should look at this again. Right means that landowners, respect for private property rights, require the landowner to enter a national park board. We see that the representatives from the Sameting are reindeer owners and reindeers from the reindeer industries. It is positive, but it creates an imbalance when the basic owners and those with rights of use are not represented at the same time. This could be a pitfall for conflict, instead of being a grobot to create a good climate for cooperation. In concrete terms, this is the case in Skarvan-Roltdalen National Park. Here there is an imbalance with regard to landowner interests, and the Council of State has really created a expectation that the Council of State will take a concrete look at the landowner’s representation when it comes to Skarvan–Roltdalen National Park. Will the Council of State look at it, and when, if so?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e655	I have not made any expectations about Skarvan-Roltdalen, but it is now clear that I think we have done the right thing when it applies to that national park. So there's a reason why that's right there. On the other hand, I'm going to do what I've told you to do, and I'm going to take a closer look at the issue of landowner representation. I have given an example of a national park where I can clearly see that there are arguments, and that is a basis for why it might be relevant to look closer. But it's already today so that we open each other up separately. Because our protective areas are very different, our governance looks quite different. That's why there's a government like today, where there's a basic ownership representation – and I want to look at that question again – but one will also find government where it's not natural, and this is an example of it, in my view. When it comes to representation from the Sameting, it's allowed in the ILO Convention, which I'm busy with that there's a lot of agreement about in the Storing, also from the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e668	‘In Gardermoen, one of Norway’s largest industrial parks is currently located. Thousands of new jobs are expected to come here. So far, there has been no lack of objections or obstacles from public authorities, such as the State Road Service. This has made it difficult to facilitate new start-ups. What does the Council of State think in principle about the obstacles that public authorities are putting in the way of business development, new jobs and development in a region where local authorities say yes?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e675	The starting point for the Planning and Building Act is that municipalities are in charge of spatial planning. Organisation for economic development is part of this planning. In accordance with the new Law on Planning and Building, more emphasis shall be placed on the plan so that any objections can be settled early. It shall facilitate the handling of construction matters in municipalities, and it shall increase the predictability of those with an interest in the area of real estate and the environment. As Minister of Industry, I am committed to facilitating and contributing to the creation of value added and sustainable growth. At the same time, I am aware that the processes of the Planning and Building Act should protect important social interests and safeguard the interests of all those affected by the development. It is important that processes are well balanced, both in order to promote the interests of stakeholders and in order to safeguard other interests. I am aware that the business community will have efficient and as low a cost-intensive process as possible in matters relating to the Planning and Building Act. The need for better and less costly management processes is the background to government's work on simplification. On the government side, we have set an ambitious target of reducing business administrative costs by 10 billion. kr. We have created a separate project in the Ministry of Industry and Trade to follow up and strengthen the work on simplification. The project is dedicated to the achievement of the government's simplification objectives and to coordinating cooperation between departments. Among the project's tasks is to review all relevant business simplification measures. This also applies to the Law on Planning and Building. As regards the issue of objections, the theme is among others: referred to by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs of Meld. St. 28 for 2011–2012 Good construction for a better society. The government has started work in response to the challenges mentioned. The Ministry of the Environment is now preparing a pilot project in which the State is responsible for coordinating state objections to municipal land plans. A letter has been sent to the statesmen asking to join the trial project. The project will start when it is clear which states will participate. Furthermore, the Ministry of the Environment has started a project work to review objection practices and planning processes in the Planning and Building Act. The aim of the project is to improve the practice of using objections and to increase the level of coordination of objections from State actors. All the departments concerned participate in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e690	I thank the Council of State for the answer. What quickly arises as a situation is that the municipality becomes a kind of hostage in a planning process. The signals seen by local authorities in this area are that the business community sees it as a paradox that areas have been allocated for nutritional purposes, while overall government bodies are more experienced as counterparts than co-players. When projects arrive, there are signals to which it is particularly important to listen, especially for this area where 30 000 to 50 000 jobs are to be established from a 50-year perspective. It is such that when the County, Vegvesenet or Department has such a planned development, it is difficult for business to implement measures in practice. Does the Council of State see this as a hindrance to value creation?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e699	I believe that good and efficient planning processes can at least facilitate business development, and it is the responsibility of the municipality to make these spatial plans in such a way that it facilitates the development of business in its own municipality. Then there are many possibilities for objecting and influencing these spatial plans. All these processes have a good purpose: to take care of different societal interests, such as: the possibility of good infrastructure also from a 50-year perspective. It is very sad if short-term plans destroy the possibility of good communication arrangements in the future. We have to take these relationships into the plans in a good way. What we can certainly get better at is that the state agencies are effective and concrete in their input, and not least that the state also coordinates its objections in a better way. That is precisely what this test project is all about, that the statesmen who are interested in it can try out a project where the state is more co-ordinated and thus contribute to more efficient processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e708	Then my natural follow-up question becomes: What concrete action will the Council of State take to ensure that government agencies become more constructive and more coordinated in their approach?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e713	Firstly, this is now in different departments. Both the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Transport and others are involved in this and are responsible for the effectiveness of the processes in which they and the underlying agencies participate. The project that I mention is a project where the County can take all the state objections and coordinate them in a good way. Sometimes we see that different government agencies have different input into land use plans and other things, and it becomes extra complicated to be a municipality when even the state agencies are not coordinated. It is understandable in itself, because they take different social interests into account, but when the different bodies of the state are opposed, it may be a good idea that the state is coordinating and not that the municipality should take that job. That's what this experiment is about trying out.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e724	‘I refer to question 8 in the ordinary Question Time on 23 January 2013. There are several examples of different treatment options when disabled people with the same background and the same need for skills enhancement seek the same type of training in order to improve their opportunities in the labour market. The individual Nav office or case handler can sovereignly reject the application for a course without the applicant being able to complain. Will the Council of State ensure more predictable and equivalent treatment and ensure that all applicants for employment measures are entitled to appeal, not only those who are granted their application?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e731	The allocation of labour-oriented measures takes place on the basis of an individual assessment based on the needs and performance assessment of what is most appropriate for individual entry into work. That's what's the basis. Both the person’s wishes, resources, and the needs of the labour market will be included in the assessment made. Comparing labour-oriented assistance offered to different people at different times in different parts of the country can therefore provide a rather misleading starting point. The State of Employment and Welfare allocates labour-oriented measures within the framework of the regulations on labour-oriented measures, government budget appropriations and the annual letters of assignment to the State of Labour and Welfare. There is no legal requirement for action, and the number of available measures may be temporarily lower than demand. The Employment and Welfare Act cannot therefore offer measures to all those who wish to do so, but must give priority to the use of measures as appropriate for individual entry into work. This results in individual assessments and overall assessments of the measures as such. When the Labour Market Act was adopted, exceptions were made to the Administrative Act. This meant that persons who need or want the same type of service, in this case a labour market measure, as asked by the representative, are not covered by the concept of party to the administrative law. A practical consequence of this is that they do not have the right to complain about the lack of an offer of measures or refusal of action. I refer to the detailed explanation of this in the proposition presented in 2004. The background to this derogation is inter alia: the number of action sites is limited and results from the financial framework for the allocation of actions. There are also restrictions on which measures are available at a given time. A right of appeal could thus appear to be quite illusory. The rights of individuals, including the right to appeal, have therefore been exercised in other ways. Persons who do not receive action are not completely excluded from handling their case with the Employment and Welfare Act. Users may complain about work performance assessment, and they may complain about the service provided by the Employment and Welfare Act. I see no reason to change this law.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e746	That was a disappointing answer. It is rather despairing for those who are applying for a measure. In the case I referred to in the previous question, there was a strong visual impairment, almost blind, who applied for courses that could confirm competence and provide additional competence for the use of Mac. A buddy had got the same thing when it came to Windows. It seems completely pointless when one is given an approved course, and not the other, nor is it given the opportunity to try their case by complaining. When they do not have the right to complain, they do not have the right to be assisted by the Civil Ombudsman. As the Council of State said earlier today, we are receiving enquiries from many dubious Nav users. It is strange that it has to be a big media matter before the council intervenes and see if anything should be done about the matter. When an application for a course is rejected, there should be a reason why it is rejected. If it says in the explanatory statement that unfortunately you can't give a course because there's no economy, that you don't have money left in the Nav office, that's a reason, and then we politicians have to see if it's allowed too little money. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e757	The President reminds us that the clock is going a little wrong, so time is up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e760	As I remember, the representative has asked questions about this person in an earlier oral Question Time. I cannot go in and deal with this individual's case. Nor can I know what is at the root of what is the Labour and Welfare Act's conclusion in this case. I notice that the representative has a different view and will apply the right of appeal here. But as I stressed, labour market measures are not a rights-driven scheme. Complaints can be made about disability benefits and other types of social security benefits, but not about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e767	I think it is wrong not to have a right to complain. The least you should be entitled to is at least a reasoned refusal. If the justification is poor economics, it should be stated – of course it cannot be complained about – but if the reason is that the health status is not that one should have a course or that one does not have a job opportunity, it should be possible for an applicant to have a view on it from other than the individual person in Nav who has dealt with the matter. When you do not have a right to complain, and you do not have a reasoned refusal to proceed with it, it is up to each case handler at Nav to decide the fate of a person. People who turn to Nav think they'll get help. A severely disabled person who is 40 years old and has been unemployed, who has not been in work, but who wants to return to work, gets a refusal without the possibility to complain. Doesn't the Council of State think this may seem very unfortunate?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e772	In these cases, there is not one individual treating one applicant; there are often several people who have made assessments, both work performance assessments and other assessments. If he/she is dissatisfied with the service, he/she may make a complaint if you feel that you are ill-treated. But I believe that the introduction of a right of complaint for these schemes will lead to disproportionate resources to deal with these complaints. We also know that in the case of labour market measures, there are some people who want action, and there are often more who want it than those who can get it. In that case, I do not think it appropriate to introduce a complaint procedure. I think that will lead to more bureaucracy and less of what was the intention of the Nav reform, namely personal follow-up of the individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e781	‘Under the responsibility of the Ministry of Transport there are two independent supervision bodies: the Railway Authority and the Air Safety Authority, and one branch-controlled supervision, the Road Safety Authority. Supervision carries out an important task in order to ensure the safe transport of persons and goods. It is important that supervision has resources to carry out its tasks properly; that they focus on current issues in their areas; that dialogue with the responsible department is good; that reports are followed up; and that the Stortinget is informed. Is the Council of State satisfied with the state of the day?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e788	The Ministry of Transport has overall responsibility for the four supervisory bodies. It is the Air Safety Authority, the State Railway Authority, the Road Safety Authority and the Post and Telecommunications Authority. The representative of Sortevik's question is based on what I understand, on the three former ones. The Air Safety Authority and the State Railway Authority are the ordinary administrative body under the Ministry of Transport, while the Road Safety Authority is under the direction of the Road Director, but with a clear organisational and management distinction between the State Road Administration and the State Road Administration. In common with the three transport regulatory authorities, the activity is subject to guidelines set out in the legislation in the various fields. The State budget provides a framework for activities in each year. The budget proposal also provides a more detailed description of issues related to supervisory work. The purpose paragraph of the Etatsinstruction for each supervision shows that supervision must be an active driver of safe and efficient aviation, on behalf and rail, in line with overall objectives of the transport policy. The Ministry of Transport's letter of allocation, based on the annual budget decision of the Storting, sets out the requirements for supervision. Supervision reports to the Ministry of Transport quarterly or quarterly based on the guidance signals given in the letters of allocation. In addition, annual reports are produced by the supervisory authorities, which is an important instrument for the ministry of administration. Reporting is followed up through ministerial and supervisory meetings. In addition to this formalised governance, the Ministry will follow up inspections on specific issues where necessary. In my opinion, the Air Safety Authority, the State Railway Authority and the Road Safety Authority are organised in an appropriate manner and have sufficient resources to carry out the tasks assigned to them. Any need for changes in the budget, organisation and staffing, if proposed, will normally be submitted to the Storting through the budgetary process.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e799	I have two follow-up questions – one about the Air Safety Authority and one about the Road Safety Authority. First, the Air Safety Authority: I understood it so that two years ago, the Air Safety Authority received notices relating to the employment of employees in Ryanair. The Ministry’s letter of assignment to the Air Safety Authority for 2013 states: ‘The air traffic controller shall continue the overall oversight of HMS for flying personnel and maintain good cooperation with the Labour Inspectorate.’;» The follow-up question is: is this also true of foreign carriers landing in Norway and of non-resident carriers based in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e811	It is true that it is primarily through the letter of award that clear signals are given from the ministry to the supervision regarding the emphasis on important issues. This year's letter of assignment emphasises the focus on health, environment and safety, HMS, very clearly. Air traffic controllers have notified that they will soon have oversight of the base held by Ryanair on Rygge. They have also had approx. eight to ten supervision of another company based in Norway. It is initially the home base that determines whether or not you have the right and the power to supervise the company. There is then only the possibility of overseeing the physical and psychosocial working environment, not related to job demands, employment conditions, pay conditions or anything else.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e816	- But there's a responsibility for supervision. This is the follow-up to the State’s own supervision, the Road Safety Authority, which is to oversee that the owner of the national roads, which is, of course, the State Road Service, has – and uses – an adequate and effective management system that ensures legal requirements for road safety. I again refer to the two points on the European roads in Hordaland, E39 Ådland Bru and E16 Sundve between Voss and Vinje, where there are too many serious accidents at the same point. Will the Council of State take the initiative to open up two oversight cases at these two points of accident on these two European roads? And will the Council of State ensure that the basis of roadside supervision is extended, so that the oversight of specific points of accident on the main road network is also included in the tasks of roadside supervision?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e825	As far as road safety is concerned, they are required, according to the general documents, to supervise safety management in the implementation of projects and the safety management of existing national roads. They shall also supervise internal emergency systems. When and where the Road Safety Authority carries out supervision, a task is the Road Safety Authority’s decision. It is not the case that the Ministry of Transport, which owns it, determines where the Road Safety Authority is to supervise. This applies also to all supervision: where they choose to carry out the exact supervision, they are determined on their own. Over the last year, roadside surveillance has carried out 15 inspections, and I expect them to have the same level of oversight in the coming years too, without saying exactly which projects they are going to carry out supervision, for, as I said, it will be up to supervision.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e836	‘According to the Rome Journal of 10 April 2013, Akershus has a dramatic increase in the scope of child protection cases. In 2012 Ullensaker and Eidsvoll municipalities have breached deadlines in 60,5 and 76.2 pst respectively. of the investigation cases. In 2010–2013, the size of the population has increased the allocation of municipal child protection. The NRK reports that municipalities have received funding for far fewer jobs than they have applied for, and needs are increasing. Akershus has applied for 56.2 jobs, while funds for 21.9 jobs have been allocated. How will the Council of State meet this growth?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e843	Let me first say that I share with the representative Ulfsten's concern about the situation in many municipalities. Reports from municipalities show that there are still large differences between municipalities, among others. in the case of a breach of time limits. In Akershus, there are individual municipalities with a high proportion of deadlines for investigations. It's good that this gets attention. I am aware that the County of Oslo and Akershus follow the municipalities very closely to improve the situation, and that is in line with government policy. Major intermunicipal variations are one of the reasons why the government has increased the number of child protection posts over the last four years through government appropriations. The government's child-restraint promise started in 2010 with a specific increase in the free income of municipalities, justified by the needs of child-restraint. Then, in 2011, 2012 and 2013, there have been earmarked funds for new positions in municipalities. In total, this has enabled municipal child protection to recruit 850 new professionals. The initiative provides a boost for the entire protection of children, with a particular focus on strengthening child protection services in the most vulnerable municipalities, providing better skills and strengthening supervision. Reports from municipal child protection in 2011 and 2012 show, for the first time in a long time, a positive trend in the reduction of the proportion of offences committed on a national basis. In 2012, the rate of break in time was 15 pst. This is a decrease of 2.5 percentage points from 2010, but there is still a serious situation. This is equally full evidence that the child protection promise has helped reverse a negative trend. The government continues to invest in municipal child protection in 2013. This year's bet gives 270 new jobs. Systematic development of competences is also an important tool for improving the provision of child protection services. In 2013, child protection services will be able to apply for funding for empowerment measures based on local needs. The county will also organise trade conferences with a view to enhancing the competence of child-restraint workers in national priority areas. Current themes include the handling of messages and surveys, how to deal with violence and sexual abuse against children and how to ensure the participation of children. It is natural for municipalities to apply for municipal child protection posts when the government earmarks funds for this. However, the overall designation does not reflect the government’s assessment of the actual need. Municipalities are obliged to assess this and to contribute to the sea through the prudent disposal of their free revenues. Let me just stress that the organisation and funding of local child protection is the responsibility of municipalities. Earmarking is something special that comes at the top. It helps to make a need that has made child protection services local and local authorities more aware of the needs of their child protection. It's incredibly good, and it's time. But it's not that when we designate positions, we assume financial responsibility for the municipalities. When the municipalities make a need visible locally, I expect local politicians to fill the gap with posts and provide the child protection services they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e858	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I share the view that responsibility is also with the local politicians. I am also pleased that there has been an increased focus on child protection in recent years, and that concrete measures and resources have been followed up. We have noted with interest the propositions that have been made, and the suggestions in the message section. But when I read this, I'm still left with the thought: Is this too little too late? Will it solve the major challenges we face in many municipalities in growing areas like Akershus? It remains to be seen. So back to what the Council of State said about competence. There is a tendency to point to a lack of competence and poor management as the main challenges of child protection. The council said a little about working more systematically with it. My further question is two-fold: is it not a simplification to pass the blame on to the individual child protection office and individual employees? Can the Council of State be a little more specific in relation to the concrete challenges of the competence and management of child protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e867	I have a feeling that this is meant to be played out by a specific rapporteur from the Progress Party in Ullensaker, namely Harald Espelund. This is especially so since this municipality has applied for more jobs than it actually has, and then the rapporteur comes later and says that they do not really need this, because there are really bad child-restraint workers who are the problem, not the number of child-restraint workers – which I think is a poor discharge from a rapporteur. I expect better, and that's what I'm going to say more about. That being said, it is absolutely right that we have competence challenges in child protection, but it is related to both the size of professional environments you have and the ability to keep good people. The size of job breaks, e.g. the offer is also a municipal responsibility. It also has an equality side. But it's also about management, etc. We address it in full terms in the proposition to which the representative refers, among other things. the establishment of master-level training for child protection managers.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e874	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is right that I aim for the wording that applied to the municipality of Ullensaker. As mentioned in my main question, the magazine of Rome has revealed several challenges in child protection. They had, among other things, a notice concerning the municipality of Skedsmo on 10 April. The children's protection in Skedsmo municipality strove last year and had over 70 cases pending. Fortunately, it's fixed up now, and that's good. But the studies from child protection itself show that 60 pst. the reports of concern in the municipality are about violence or suspicion of violence against children. That number surprised them, and it shows me that it's a frightening development. What does the Council of State think about the increasing number of child protection cases being related to violence? Is child protection protected to deal with such matters?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e883	It's a very important question that's being asked here. I think this has to do with our society becoming much more aware of violence that affects children. Later today I will open the exhibition "If clothes could tell", which has been here in Stortinget, and which we are now going to show the departments, where the main message is that we don't see it until we believe it. We have to do what the State Attorney said on the Day Revy yesterday, namely be able to imagine that the worst can happen to children. It's a development we're in, by removing taboos and starting addressing issues that have belonged to the private homes, that have not been treated with the seriousness, the searchlight and the attention that the problem deserves. When we start to get this into the light, kids start telling, professionals start seeing, and we start getting better skills and collaboration across. I'm interpreting it as a sign that we're on the right track, and I think we're going to see a development where more and more children's sails are going to say from even when we get better at talking to children.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e894	‘In a written question to the Council of State dated 14 September 2012, the Christian People’s Party called for a smooth approach to the requirement of free movement and exercise on grazing in Section 10 of the Code on the keeping of bovine animals. This requirement turns out to be difficult to meet, inter alia. for some farmers with robotics. A survey in the United Nations on 26 March this year tells us that the Food Authority is to ‘clean up’ in the uncertainties of the rules for the keeping of farmed animals. Can the Council of State confirm that a review of Section 10 of the Code on the keeping of bovine animals is part of this work?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e901	The requirement for free movement and exercise of grazing for all bovine animals — including those engaged in loose movement — was included in the 2004 regulation. For detached animals, a transitional period was granted until 1 January 2013. Anyone who has built a plumber after 2004 has been aware that this requirement would be met. It should have been well known. If the grazing requirement cannot be met, the requirement for the use of an appropriate air condition shall be opened. The regulation also provides for derogations in exceptional cases. However, there has been some confusion about the practical design of the air conditioner. Furthermore, there has been uncertainty about the possibility of possibly obtaining a derogation from the exercise requirement where the air condition cannot be used. I have therefore postponed the application of the exercise provision for cattle in bulk operation for one year. The notified review of the Regulation by the Food Safety Authority has as its primary objective the establishment of a more appropriate regulatory structure and the harmonisation of similar provisions for different animal species. This includes, inter alia: clarify unclear wording and propose the deletion/modification of any new requirement where it is deemed necessary. In the work on cleaning up the legislation, the Food Authority has asked for and received input from the industries concerned. Some of the recordings that have been made also include the exercise requirement. In this context, it is mainly concerned with documentation requirements, a better description of when the airspace is considered adequate, and design requirements. Not all recordings have been evaluated by the Food Safety Authority yet. The Ministry is in dialogue with the Food Authority on the appropriate ratification of the regulation on free movement and exercise. The recordings of the Food Safety Authority in its review of all the regulations can be useful in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e914	I thank you for the answer, which shows a practical and pragmatic approach to the problem. For a good many dairy farmers who have invested heavily in new operating buildings and robotics in recent years, the debt pressure is so high that they balance on a knife rod in terms of operating margins. Some of these farms have been approved for new buildings which are not close to sufficient grazing area. This in practice makes it impossible for them to meet the requirement of Section 10 of the Code on the keeping of bovine animals, as the cattle milk on the robot 24 hours a day. It is simply impossible to combine the requirement of exercise on pasture with practical solutions for milking. Section 10 of the Regulation provides that the requirement of exercise and free movement can be met by the establishment of an airfield in relation to the operational building. Modern cold spring is a loose spring which largely allows free air flow by allowing large wall slits to be opened and closed as necessary. Is the Council of State agreeing that such cold poultry can be said to be a shelter with roof over, and that cattle in such poultry thus get almost as good animal welfare as in an air condition without a roof in a rainy coastal climate?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e921	In the time I have been Minister of Agriculture, I have chosen to travel very much around and meet many farmers. I've been in 16 counties and I've been in fudge almost in all the counties. One of the issues that has emerged is precisely the problem that the representative Reiten is now addressing in relation to the exercise requirement. That's why I also postponed it last fall, because we got that kind of recording. Now we review the legislation and see what adaptations are to be made, so that there is the best possible regulatory framework when animal welfare is the aim.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e926	I thank you again for the answer. I mentioned in my first question that many farmers who have invested in new milking robot farm buildings do not have sufficient pasture area near the farm building to meet the requirement of the exercise requirement on grazing. I have also spoken to several of them, and they express their fear of building airfields with systems for fertilising walls with new and modern cold springs, with good airing, good space and loose operation. Such a burden would impose a large additional cost on them, which in turn would render the indebtedness unmanageable. The alternative is to terminate operations rather than risk bankruptcy. What is the Council of State's response to this group of farmers, who have dared to invest in agriculture at a time when more and more farmers are giving up and shutting down farming?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e931	The most important answer I have given to those who have invested, and to many of those who have invested heavily, is the general change we made in customs protection. Especially for those who drive big, the customs change we made last autumn means a lot, because it's the volume percentage that makes a earn the most on it. As regards the exercise requirement, it is important to remember that this was decided in 2004, when the Christian People's Party was put in power. It is easy to put forward a regulation in 2004 to be implemented in 2013, as the next state council will be responsible. I really almost want to do the same now, adopt something to be done in 2025, for example. But the point is that we have to take this seriously, and I do that after the meetings we've had. That's why I also stopped it, or put it at risk, to go through it and see what practical adjustments are made, so that we get a good and easy regulation to deal with who puts animal welfare in focus. For animal welfare is one of the highest quality features of Norwegian agriculture, and we have to make sure that we are always in front of that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e942	I have the following questions for the Minister of Culture: ‘The Ministry of Culture has, in its regulation dated 27 December 2012, given Film & Kino responsibility for the financing of cinematographic works outside Oslo. As the only cinematographer in Norway, Cinemateket in Oslo receives state full funding from the Ministry through the State budget. Film & Kino has now decided to cut support for the other cinematic characters from 2014. What is the reason for this distinction between Cinematography in Oslo and the others, and what will the Council of State now do to secure the economy of the other cinematographic institutions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e951	Thank you for the question. First, the representative asks about the distinction between Cinematette in Oslo and the other cinematographers, and so I'll do it first. Cinematography in Oslo is part of the Norwegian Film Institute and is therefore financed from its operating budget. This is how it has been since 1994. Cinemateka in the rest of the country was granted State aid from 2004 through NFI. In 2009, funding was transferred to Film & Kino. It is known that the tax revenues of Norwegian cinema and film funds have fallen considerably over the last few years and that the decline may continue. The reduction in revenue, as the representative may be aware, is mainly due to the decrease in the turnover of DVD and the replacement of electronic commerce. It has consequences for the economy of Film & Kino. The NFI manages a national responsibility for knowledge of film heritage and history, which means that the Cinemate in Oslo, which is part of the Norwegian Film Institute, has tasks in addition to those of the other cinematographers. In order to be entirely concrete: as a result of their responsibilities as a national cinematographer, they have active cooperation and an advisory function in relation to regional cinematographers. It's the NFI that has the authority to certify cinematic in Norway. Internationally, the NFI represents Norwegian cinematic industry through membership of FIAF, a world-wide interest organisation for cinematic and film archives. NFI is also a member of ACE, the European Organization for Cinematic Studies. This means that they are in contact with international companies about film copies taken from abroad and that they offer parts of serials to other cinematics. That means that the Cinematographer in Oslo has a bigger administrative task than any of the other cinematographers have, and they also have it on behalf of the other cinematographers in the country. As Cinemateket leader Svein Inge Säther in Trondheim himself stated in the film magazine Montages on December 5, 2012, Norsk Filminstitutt ‘an important driver of the Norwegian cinematic characters, even if they no longer manage funds other than for the Oslo cinematic’. And of course, the Cinematography in Oslo does some of the same things that the other cinematographers do. The Ministry of Culture takes seriously the economic situation of Film & Cinema. We are now looking at alternatives when it comes to financing Norwegian cinema and film funds. Of the measures we are looking at, whether the fees can be set up differently, or whether the tasks of Film & Cinema today should be funded in another way. It is also assessed whether funds can be used for a limited period of time or whether tasks can be moved back to the State budget, such as the Kortfilmfestival in Grimstad in 2013. The economic situation of cinematographers outside Oslo will be included in this assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e969	I think I'm going to go in the opposite order of what the state council did, and start with the last thing, what can now be done for the other cinematic characters. It certainly burns a blue light, it's called, for the operation of several of these. There have probably also been cinematographic impairments in Norway – I have heard that Lillehammer, among others. has been mentioned recently. This is obviously a pretty acute problem. The poor economy as a result of lower tax revenues due to a decrease in the sales of DVD also has consequences for the film festivals, which are halved. Then it might seem a little puzzle to say that you can add funds for a limited period of time. There is clearly a need for a system change here, and I see that the director of Film & Kino also says that the state must now take its responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e976	The state takes its responsibility with joy. I outlined three possible solutions to the difficult situation that Film & Kino and those who get their funds from Film & Kino are now in. The three possible solutions are for the first time to change the charging model — it will affect revenue. I would like to stress that it has proved to be a challenging task, but we are going into it with life and pleasure, and would like to find a charging model that asks for longer periods of time. The second possible option is to add more funds for a limited period of time to remedy the situation now that it has been more precarious than the original. The third thing you can do is change the tasks that Film & Cinema has today, and transfer something of the responsibility, for example. back to the state budget, as one has done with the Kortfilmfestival in Grimstad at an earlier time. I do not now decide what solution – one or more – we fall down on, but I look seriously at the situation and I would like to find a solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e987	This is probably the last option I perceive that the industry feels is the only realistic and sustainable, as the director of Film & Kino has also pointed out. Then I want to go back to this which is on the obvious discrimination that is, no matter what history may have to say about it, between Oslo and Cinemateket in Oslo and the film offer in Oslo through Cinemateket and the other cities. So the Cinemate in Oslo doesn't have to worry about the situation that's affected on this issue because they already have their full funding. I understand that the Cinemate in Oslo can offer school students in Oslo school shows without the municipality of Oslo having to pay for it, while in other cities you have to pay because the economy is considerably tighter. Is it true that the Minister of Culture sees this status of national cinematic as having a special position in relation to the audience and the offer they make to the audience?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e996	I think that the role that Cinemathete in Oslo has as part of the Norwegian Film Institute, for which I also did the right thing in the first answer, means that they have a different administrative burden than that of the other cinemateka, because they have an important driving function and a role that also matters to the other cinemateka, in which I feel that the others among the different cinemateka are some of them, and which they also express that Cinemathete in Oslo has a role. I note that the representative Warloe emphasizes that there may have been historical reasons for this, but I think the historical reasons are secondary. It must be the reality that is decisive, and the reality is that the Cinemate in Oslo has a different administrative task. But when that's said, I'm busy with the situation of the other cinematographers. As I said, I take their situation seriously, and we look more closely at how we can remedy the situation that Film & Cinema is in today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e1003	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-17.ana.ud827e1016	There is no record available. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
