ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-10.ana.ud2318e36	From the representative Trine Skei Grande, an application for welfare leave is made from 14 January to 18 January. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative of the goods, Ola Elvestuen, is proposed to meet from 15 January to 17 January. – It is also considered to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-10.ana.ud2318e60	The issue we are dealing with today is of a very special nature. As far as I am concerned, this is the largest and most comprehensive study carried out by the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs in its present form. All departments have been involved in the study and have undergone major changes in grant management in several departments. The case was also examined. I would first like to remind you of the beginning of the matter. It was the Dagbladet that referred to after each two concrete allocations from the Ministry of Children, Equality and Inclusion, where it was claimed that the allocations were not treated in line with the applicable legislation. The Committee started its feasibility studies on 31 January 2012 and opened its control case on 28 February. In the course of the Committee's proceedings, several examples of allocations were presented as irregular. The Committee therefore extended the matter from dealing only with the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and the Ministry of Inclusion to cover the general government of the departments. The matter was opened and adopted by a unanimous committee. For the sake of order, I would also like to touch on two special aspects before moving on. One relationship is that one specific case complex was lifted out of this grant case and opened up as a case of its own. This concerns the case that is publicly known as the Støre-Tschudi case. It has been dealt with earlier by Stortingen, and I will not touch it further in this post. The second relationship is that the Council of State, which was responsible at the time of the opening in the Ministry of Children, Equality and Inclusion, was suspended as a result of findings in the BLD during the review requested by the Committee. The fact that the former Council of State Lyssbakken took such a clear responsibility for the deficiencies that were discovered means that neither in the suspension nor in the debate today there is a need to reinforce or underline these critical circumstances. On my own account, I will also express respect for the correct course of action of the former Council of State Lighthouse in the situation that has arisen. It is well in line with our parliamentary tradition that government councils that run departments that make mistakes of this kind choose to take responsibility themselves by going off. The review initiated by the Committee was extensive. The case concerns grants other than applications for social security, grants to municipalities and health businesses. For 2011, it included a grant of approximately 85 billion. kr. The regulatory framework underpinning the review is the allocation rules adopted by the Stortinget and the economic legislation adopted by the Government. The Committee notes in its Opinion that, through the Control and Constitutional Committee, the Storting may also use legislation adopted by the Government as a basis for its control. In addition, the study has focused on stability. Stability is the very legitimacy of public exercise of power, and it shall be an assurance that decisions are taken on a different basis than facts and policies. The main foundation of democracy is confidence and security that decisions do not take into account friendship, knowledge, money, private interests or other externalities. The Committee has used some space in its configuration to mention the relationship around stability, because it is important to have this as a focus area in the management. However, after these thorough investigations were carried out, the main impression is that the legislation has been largely complied with. At the same time, it is important to stress that almost all departments recognise that they have had individual cases or a practice that could have been better. The Committee therefore welcomes the fact that the majority of grants managed by the Ministries are managed in accordance with the applicable rules and conditions. At the same time, there has been a necessary pre-requisite that several departments have changed their practices. The Committee also stresses in its recommendation that the regulatory practice be in line with the intention and that the general rule for granting grants is that the grant schemes, or the possibilities for applying for grants, should be published. The exceptions to the general rule shall be assessed on a case-by-case basis. In the setting, we go through all the departments separately. I would stay here for a very long time if I were to do the same thing, so I would focus on some examples. First, I would like to link some comments to the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion, which was the starting point of the matter. There has been a breach of the legislation and a practice considered to be in the grey zone of the legislation. That, of course, is critical. At the same time, the new government council, Inga Marte Thorkildsen, has carried out a major effort to change the grant practice, both through internal reviews and changes and by seeking the help of the Directorate of Financial Management. In the hearing, the Committee received an insight into these changes, and if they are implemented after the intention and fully implemented, the BLD may go from being a sort of worst in the area of grants to having the best system for granting grants in the future, and that is good. In the Ministry of Health and Welfare only a random check was carried out following the letter of the Committee. In its statement, the Committee stresses that it called for a full review of the grant schemes. I have a general expectation that departments entrusted with the task of the Control and Constitutional Committee will actually do what the Committee asks for, or justify why they do not. None of the parts were made by the Minister of Health Anne-Grete Stroem-Erichsen at the time. The basis for overall trust in central government is often the absence of poor examples. Media widely mentioned that then State Secretary Kari Henriksen brought the news that her department had allocated funds to her former employer, the Barns Best Network, after an application she had allegedly written herself when she worked for the network. In addition, in a short time, the amount of aid had increased from 1 million. NOK to SEK 5.5 million. kr. The Committee considers that it is important to be aware of the role of managing a political responsibility in a department. At the same time, the Ministry explained that Henriksen did not participate in the decision-making process itself. However, the Committee considers that such conditions may create external uncertainties. For the Department of Justice and Defence there was a need for some improvements, and in addition the Committee was made aware of a specific case in which one of the department's leaders had bought advertising space over several years without any real need for the ads. They were more marked as grants than actual marketing, in the opinion of the Council of State. The Committee agrees. The Committee also considers that it is incomprehensible that such practices may be carried out over time without being discovered by the Ministry’s own control procedures. There were tips from a private individual that led to that case being revealed. The Committee agrees with the Council of State that this requires a thorough review of the Ministry's practice. In the course of the case, there were also several other examples of what was characterised as unorthodox proceedings. In the Ministry of Knowledge, the then state council of Tora Aasland, according to the media, had corresponded with a social welfare beneficiary, the Women's University, by private mail. It was claimed that there were also close links privately between the Council of State and the proposer. The Committee has found it appropriate to stress that correspondence in grant cases for which it is constitutionally responsible must be done as a Council of State, not as a private individual. In this case, the knowledge minister Kristin Halvorsen also believed that there was only one current social welfare beneficiary for these funds. The Committee considers that in such cases it is necessary to mention the beneficiary in the budget proposal. The Committee also considers that there is no room for a grant scheme which appears in the budget to be applicable to several beneficiaries, if the ministry considers in advance that it is actually only one possible beneficiary. The Committee explicitly asked the Ministries, in its communication, for a review of the grant schemes administered by each department. All the departments have done a thorough and good job with this, with the exception of two. One is the Ministry of Health and Welfare, which I mentioned earlier. Only a random check was carried out there. The second department is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The current Minister for Foreign Affairs and the then Minister for Development failed to review the grant schemes, nor was random checks carried out. The Committee finds it unsatisfactory, and critical, that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Development failed to carry out such control despite the clear appointment of the Committee. In a few departments, it is presented as a problem that there may be difficulties in distinguishing between grants and purchases of services in some areas. However, the Committee takes the opposite view and it is difficult to see that it represents a real challenge to distinguish between grants and purchases of services. The Committee considers that this uncertainty is addressed. The limit of viability has been one of the important issues in the matter. That decisions taken are made by Habile people, is fundamental in a state of law and in a democracy, which I have previously had in mind. I'm not going to go any closer to that relationship now, but I'm going to show that what I said as the case-rapporteur during Stortinget's treatment of the so-called Støre-Tschudi case, these general considerations of instability, are also valid in this case. This issue has been comprehensive and important to help improve the management of grants in most departments. As a result of the case, we have a better grant management today and for the future than we had when the case started. The case has shown some individual cases that are critical, but essentially the grant management has been within the regulatory framework. The case has also created some discussion about the consequences a control case should or should have. It appears that some commentators expect any government case as soon as a control case is opened. It must be due to a misunderstanding of the role of the Control and Constitutional Committee. This case is a very good example of control helping to solve concrete management challenges and ensuring a better future management of Community funds. As a result of the case, a government council went off. However, the list of where parliamentary control has the best effect must be based on the Committee's assessment at all times, not whether the matter is suitable for the formation of a State Council. Then the control function would really be neglected. This is one of the nine audit cases opened by the Committee on its own initiative since the 2009 elections. Maybe there should have been more. In this demanding case, the Committee has convened itself in a unanimous vote. It helps to give legitimacy to the control function – without me saying that settings without such a collection contribute to the opposite. I would like to thank the Committee for good cooperation along the way in the process to find the solutions we have found jointly. So we've got ourselves together in a position that makes it unusual to ask the Riksaudition to follow up the grant management in its future audits, especially to see if the changes we're suggesting are actually being implemented. The National Audit Office’s annual audit for 2011 shows that the actions of the departments which received comments on grant management in 2010 have not been foreseen. It underlines the importance of the proposal that Stortinget will adopt today, and I am sure that the Riksrevision will follow it up in a thorough manner. Even if we can't formally instruct the Riksrevision to do that, we have good reason to believe that the Riksrevision will do this in a good way. Finally, I would like to mention that during the examination of the case we have received a notification against the former State Council Lighthouse from a private individual for a breach of the Liability Act and a transmission from Økokrim for a similar notification submitted to them. A report has also been received from a private individual addressed to Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg, Minister of Foreign Affairs Jonas Gahr Støre, Minister of Knowledge Kristin Halvorsen, former Minister of Research and Higher Education Tora Aasland and State Councillor Bård Vegar Solhjell, as a former Minister of Knowledge. I do not go into those notifications in any detail in addition to saying that the Committee has dealt with them in the usual way in this matter. The Committee has made use of its powers to resolve cases in which notifications are concerned, obviously cannot lead to liability. It is clear from the second sentence of the third paragraph of Section 15 of the Rules of Procedure. For my part, I would like to add that when assessing what obviously cannot lead to liability, one will have to look at past practices in this area – and the last national court case was conducted in 1926. Irrespective of this matter, there may be a need for a more general review of what the conditions for meeting the requirements of the Rules of Procedure in this area should be for the future, but it is in the case of an initiative that should come from the presidency. With these brief, introductory remarks, I put the unanimous vote ahead of debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-10.ana.ud2318e123	Let me start by giving commendation to the case rapporteur, both from me and certainly from the rest of the committee, for a very tidy way of being the case rapporteur on this matter, and for contributing to our unanimous position. This case, as everyone knows, originally originated in the press review by the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality, which allocated funds to the so-called Jente defence without prior publication. Money had gone to organisations closely related to the Party of Governments. There's not necessarily anything wrong with it, but it turned out to be more than the Socialist Youth Defence Course. The problem was a lack of publicity and inexcusable proceedings. Audun Lightground chose to leave as a government council. The councils had been involved, among others. when allocating funds to the reform organisation. Let me also, as the rapporteur-in-Office, stress that there is respect for what the Council of State then did. The new government councils in the ministry have announced both temporary and long-term measures for cleaning. This is necessary to restore confidence in BLD allocations. There is respect for the rapid reaction of the state councillor Thorkildsen and the systematic review she makes, and she also deserves praise for it. In the course of the process, several cases were raised in various media with allegations of irregular defaults in grant management in several departments, as the rapporteur also said. The Committee chose to extend the control case to the grant management of all departments. The Committee has examined cases from the departments covering a total of about a quarter of the total. 85 B.C.E. kr. Interestingly, a unanimous committee actually concludes that there are few violations of the grant rules. Then, of course, it can be said that the review has also led to even better grant management, but no culture has been discovered. The main impression is that the legislation is largely complied with. Some people might be better off publishing the grants they have, i.e. be on the safe side with regard to the exemption provisions available for publication and have discretion. The conclusion is, in my opinion, that we have a competent administration, a government that is prepared to comply with both the laws and regulations of the Stortinge and the Financial Management Regulations. In addition, several ministries stress that they will consider on an ongoing basis possibilities for further improvements in the management of the grant schemes. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has a very large grant portfolio. Here is everything from humanitarian aid to peace organisations and the promotion of Norwegian culture abroad. The Ministry has therefore set up a separate grant management unit. There, 2000 new agreements were concluded only in 2012. However, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs did not carry out any sampling of the allocation in 2011. That is why the Committee calls on the National Audit Office to follow closely the allocations made by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It concerns responsibilities both for the Minister for Foreign Affairs and for the Minister for Development. Then I find reason to suggest that the political leadership of each department also operates politics. A government is very rarely politically neutral. Norway is not under administration, and we don't have a business ministry. We have a government based on a majority in the Grand Duchy, a majority of voters have voted in favour of the Grand elections. It's part of our democracy. Grant allocation is also a means of policy-making. I'll think that, for example. A government council from the Christian People's Party would like to believe that it is important to support a Christian organisation or church organizations – otherwise it is not the only party that believes it. When the PNND, the International Parliamentary Organisation for the Non-Proliferation and Disarmament of Nuclear Weapons, or – for that matter – the Norwegian No to Atomic Weapons, receives financial support from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it is not primarily because they send good applications. They will, of course, do that too, but they will receive grants because they are working for a political purpose that the government and a total increase actively support – the budget line for peace organisations has actually been established in the context of a budgetary position in Stortinget. When the Ministry of Defence gives grants to the People and Defence, it may be because political Norway believes that public information about the Defence is important. It is a political assessment – and must necessarily be a political assessment. Subsidies are therefore key tools to achieve policy objectives, to mark within the legislative, regulatory and decision making frameworks that exist. I said that the studies in the departments have shown that the financial regulations are largely followed. I would also like to show that the Council of State, Sigbjørn Johnsen, said in the hearing: «We have a robust and good regulation today, but any legislation can be both updated and improved.» He went on to say: ‘There is also the background to the mandate we have now given to the DFOE through the 2012 letter of allocation, where they are now going to go through it.’ I am aware that DFØ, i.e. the Directorate of Economic Management, is now monitoring and analysing the state's situation of competence in this area. The aim of the analysis is to identify the need for skills enhancement and to provide the basis for prioritisation between different competences actions. Let me add that the government's financial regulations were originally set at kgl. Resolution of 26 January 1996 and revised 12 December 2003. At the same time, the Ministry of Finance laid down provisions on financial management in the State. The aim of the rules is, of course, to ensure an effective and appropriate design and follow-up of grants. So our conclusion on the review is that not only is the legislation robust, but it is also the administration. General government in Norway is likely to work better than general government in most other places. It's perhaps a dry claim -- I'll say it anyway. There is a lot of good work done. A lot of good service production is being carried out. We have loyal and competent officials and officials in departments and directorates. It is in any case the main picture when we focus on the public sector and on the grant management. This does not mean that the award criteria should not be clear. It also does not mean that there is no need to clarify the boundary between acquisitions and grants, see. the case from the Ministry of Justice that the rapporteur mentioned, which is a very bad case – and a very special case, we get hope. At least that's what our investigation has shown. The public sector needs to be constantly improved and developed. Internal control needs to be tightened up. However, let us not forget that the administration adopts decisions taken by an overall increase or by a majority of the Stortinget – political decisions on policy objectives. Juvenile defence, for example, is an excellent policy measure that deserves support, of course within the regulatory framework. Humanitarian aid is also important. However, the Administrative Act and the Liability Act are narrower than some seem to believe. Entrepreneured people often act in more organisations and are also active in political parties, which are the very basis of our democracy. This shall not preclude the granting of grants to non-governmental organisations. But let me underline what the rapporteur said: it is important that you are role-conscious, and that you can sometimes have more hats – that you are aware of it. In the end, let me just show you that we have asked the National Audit Board to follow up on the grant management.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-10.ana.ud2318e176	Let me first give you a more general consideration. Many have claimed, not least in the press, that Stortingen’s control work has had some sort of cleansing or has become more active under the current government. It might be an impression that's created, but the statistics show something completely different. The Monitoring and Constitutional Committee raised on its own initiative during the 2001–2005 programming period as in the period 2009–2013, i.e. the period we are now in. There was some increase in the mid-period, 2005–09, but not significant. So let me turn it over a little bit and say that I think it's rather the attention on the issues that have increased, and perhaps the press has also discovered that control work is an important part of the parliamentary practice we have in Norway. That's good – whether you're in position or you're in opposition. I myself have had the pleasure of being called to the hearings and to be a participant in hearings – sitting on the other side of the table – during different periods. The system for hearings is such that I would say that no one can complain that you cannot answer for it. More than in other contexts, such as: in legal processes, it is possible to respond well — literally. The Council of State will always have the last word in a hearing if you talk about the hearing itself. The setting will have the last word in many ways, that's the process we're now in. So to this specific matter. I shall not be long, just refer to the statements made by the President-in-Office, which were factual and comprehensive for my position on this matter. I will not go into the same details, but again raise the question: was it necessary in this specific case for the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee to extend the perspective to all departments? Paradoxically, it was the resignation of the Council of State Lightbaking that made it necessary to do so, as he in perhaps an unthinkable line or two claimed that this could be the case in many, many departments – I have done something wrong, but I am not alone at all. It's a natural human reaction, which in a council of states' mouth is perceived to be more serious than that. We've done the review. It was necessary, not least because a lot of money is managed through grants of this kind. 85 B.C.E. kr is mentioned here. It is large and small – there are very different types of grants. There is a lot of money in the departments for which the Stortinget during the budgetary procedure has not set out in detail its use, but for which the Council of State has the opportunity to use – I would say, as the previous speaker – for policy. It is absolutely legitimate to conduct policies with money. That's why we choose governments, and that's why they have changing political colors. What is necessary to underline is that the allocation must be in line with the rules which the government itself has laid down for itself. The Financial Regulation was established by a former Government and revised during the 2001-2005 programming period. So it has been used – and determined – under changing governments. So there should be no political disagreement that the regulation – as the government has set for itself – is correct and that it should be practised. The monitoring work of the Storting Committee has been necessary to ensure that this is followed. Mostly, we have the impression that it's being followed. But let me put it this way: I also think that a control work in Stortinget has some sort of suspensive effect, in the sense that the attention to the economic regulation and attention to the issues of stability has been aroused in many departments after what was called - in the press, at least - the Lyssbakken case. In a way, when something went wrong, at least a lot of departments got their eyes up to go on their own and figure out if you did it the right way or one. It's my impression that there's been a good process, especially in BLD. In connection with calling the new government council Thorkildsen to the hearing, I have to say that I would like to give her praise – which has also been mentioned in the previous speeches – for a real job in the department to clean up their own rules and practices when it comes to appropriations, allocations and sustainability issues. The practice in the ministry reported in the hearing seemed reassuring — for me, at least — to me. It deserves praise from the Thorkildsen State Council — and praise is to be given when necessary. A lot of things have happened before, but I will not spend a long time on that. I just want to stress that you get the impression that the government has given you increasing attention. Some professionals have even noted that government councils may be reluctant to check their stability. It's a criticism I think you need to calm down. It's better to be a little too careful than not to investigate. It's shown a lot of other things, too. It is better to be on the safe side – not to hide from decisions, but to be sure that decisions are taken by people who have a sufficient distance from the case and to the persons concerned. Therefore, increased attention to viability is not an expression of pyrexia or a form of persecution of individuals, as some have also suggested, but it is a very important part of the work to ensure that Norwegian administration — at least at state level, over which we have control — has the necessary confidence and that it is completely free of any tendency to corruption. We're not just going to be better than other countries in this area, we're going to be the best, because under changing governments, Norway has the ambition to have an administration free of any evidence of corruption. We're not completely at the top of the world's transparency international review or assessment of corruption, but we're up high, and we're going to get even better. I think that will be a goal for any government. Finally, as the previous speaker pointed out, is the Financial Regulation and the Financial Regulation laid down by the Storting an obstacle to policy? Is it pirk that puts a damper on policymaking? My answer to those questions is no, it's not at all, but it has to be done in the right way. It may sometimes delay an initiative by a month or two to proceed correctly, but it is definitely necessary. This does not prevent policy allocations from taking place, but the conditions must be transparent and the allocation must also be open. Transparency is a key to good Norwegian administration in this area as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-10.ana.ud2318e202	As others have also mentioned, I would like to commend the good work done by the rapporteur in this matter – a work that led to a unanimous vote. When we know the background, the intensity and the debate about it, I would say that the work of both the opposition and the government parties in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs is such that the focus is on what is central, namely ensuring good governance. There are two parties here that I would say have acted in such a way that we have come to where we are today. As everyone is aware, the start of the case was a grant to the Maritime Defence Course for girls under the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion. The allocation of money was unregulated. There were two letters from the Committee which led to the opening of proceedings on 28 February 2012. The letter from the State Councils of the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion on 5 March was followed by a press conference from the Council of State Lysbakken, where he resigned, with a clear justification, namely the Ministry’s handling of the grant case. The ministry had for a long time had had an immeasurable practice. So the Council of State took its constitutional responsibility and resigned. If we look back and try to get into the situation and the circumstances that were, there is no doubt that there was a very difficult decision for the Council of State, and I would say from my point of view that it was a very adult decision of the Council of State. There were many who then considered it so that the Council of State Lightbakken would get a wound of such size that it would later be difficult for him to exercise a political function in a credible way. I think I could say today that it has seemed the opposite. As an Icelandic poet has said, you got a welding mark, but where the welding mark is, the goods are stronger than before. What happened then was that the case was expanded to include grant management in all departments, and there were many who were uncertain about what would happen then. It was clear that it was to be a thorough and comprehensive investigation, and – as the rapporteur said – it was a significant correspondence. This led to a consciousness and a review that provided important information and that provided changes to grant procedures. There are many schemes, at least in the Ministry of Finance and most in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but they are in most departments, and this is incredibly demanding to deal with. The Financial Governance Regulations of the State and the Financial Management Provisions of the State, the so-called Economic Code, provide that on 12 December 2003, as amended by 8 June 2010. There are detailed provisions on the management of grant and application schemes. I think it is incredibly important that everyone has increased the focus of the normal procedure on open application processes and known award criteria, and that when establishing grant schemes there is clarification of objectives and clarification of grant criteria. From my own experience, I would like to say that clarifying goals and clarifying criteria is not least useful and important for political management, and that makes it clearer what you really want to achieve with this scheme. Furthermore, rules for follow-up and control are laid down after the grant has been granted. A separate grant management guide has also been issued. As others have pointed out, the matter also includes the question of stability, and the most central here is the Administrative Act § 6, cf. Section 8 on viability. The representative Foss was in the room, and it's also my opinion, that it's better to be led was and go a little further in assessing his stability than what you might think was necessary. That's a good rule and a good custom. There are many who have said that this review leads to changes in the negative sense, i.e. there will be less political activity and less political leadership on the part of the departments. I would like to say that this clarification has led to an increased focus and attention and should therefore have given greater security to political management in view of the framework and rules in force, and that, consequently, political leadership can be exercised stronger and clearer and more offensively than what has been done in the latter. At least that is my advice in this matter. But I want to say one thing, and that's that lately there's been a lot of grant schemes, there's been a lot of pilot projects. I want to warn something against that development, because it is a development that comes into an open room, because there are not enough major political debates. It is, in my opinion, a major weakness and a systemic error that we are constantly entering into more and more grant schemes that have a very marginal impact on developments in Norway, and thus attracting attention to the major fundamental discussions about what we want with them – which I think are the starting point in a number of areas. That is why I think that discussion here should lead to it. For example, the maritime defence course for girls is important, but it is a small tool for a few people. It is important in the sense that there can be a focus on gender equality, and that this will give you a bigger case. But what should be the most central thing is to bring forward political big issues that are going to safeguard jealous economic relationships between people, so that you can ensure maritime tourism, maritime feeling and self-esteem in people, no matter what their position or position, and thus avoid conflicts and that we use so much. I just want to repeat that it's done a good job. This was an interaction between opposition and position that was very demanding and that led to a good result.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-10.ana.ud2318e232	I think this has been a good debate. The size has many important roles in the governance of the country, and one of the most important roles of the Storting is the control role. I think the way it has been done in this matter, both in the job that the committee has done and in the setting, is a good example of good craftsmanship from Stortinget in this way. That is a good attitude, and I also think it is important for me to stress that the suspension now clears up the distribution of authority and the responsibility between collapse and government. That's an important contribution to the job we're going to do. When you look at the state budget, $1,064 billion. kr for 2013 – the majority of the expenditure of the State budget is a grant. Some three-quarters of the State budget is a grant, but there are grants that are largely provided for by laws — for example: the fear of the people – and which is the starting point of explicit decision-making. It is important to be aware that when it comes to managing the large amounts that go through the State budget — both for grants and for other schemes — it is an important task to ensure that what is done is done in a proper and good way. Economic legislation is an important tool for the government and administration to ensure that decisions taken by the Stortinge are met and the assumptions made by the Stortinge are met. In other words, it is the administration’s own tool to ensure that the will of the Storting – to use that expression – is put into practice. That's one problem. The second task of the Financial Regulation is to ensure good administration, which is also a basic feature we need to have with us in the administration out there. As far as the Ministry of Finance is concerned, it is those who develop the legislation of the economy and, in that sense, own the law of the administration. The Ministry of Finance also has some small own grants, but the role of the Ministry of Finance is primarily to design, adjust and ensure that this legislation is always the best we can have. The Directorate for Financial Management has an important role to play, as has been pointed out earlier in the debate. They shall contribute to good or, to that effect, to best practice in the ministry and administration, ensure that the administration has the competence and knowledge of the legislation and, of course, also the competence to meet the requirements laid down by the legislation. In other words, they shall follow the regulatory framework and ensure good administration. I also notice what is being said in the debate that it is consistently such that the legislation is being followed up, and that we have robust and good rules. But all the legislation can be better, it can always be changed for the better, and I think that in this way it is an important contribution not only to what is in the vote, but also to the extent that the task that the Stortinge gives today to the Riksrevision to have this especially on the agenda. I believe that interaction between big business, national audit and administration/ministerial to do this better is a sensible and good way to go further. I would also like to join those who say that the committee has done a good job here on the occasion of the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-10.ana.ud2318e245	I really didn't mean to say anything, because I think there were some wise contributions from both the case rapporteur and others in this case, but I just want to lift a moment. I believe that the whole process has increased confidence in the government's administration of subsidies, both that we held a hearing and that there was a proper review in the departments – I believe that it was a proper review. The fact that a Norwegian journalist's corps were cut and found little, I think this process has increased confidence in Norwegian grant management also among Norwegian journalists, because they have gained much more insight into what is really happening. I think it's been a good process. Sick if some of us were accused of running purely political games when we started, it was actually meant to be a truly good process to increase confidence in grant management. I just want to say one thing I think was alarming when we had the hearings, and I hope the government will take it further, and that is the need for internal audit also in the departments. Some departments have – as the Ministry of Defence, started after a major change of defence – but today we have a national audit that will revise us from the outside. Having wise, good internal audits that both focus on warning culture and on the fact that it's easy to say whether things you're stunned on, and that makes you not necessarily have to go to the Riksrevision to point things out, I think I had increased trust, improved quality and also led to you getting better management in general. I understand that the Ministry of Finance was very opposed to that in the hearing – I hope it has changed over time. I think having a good internal audit is having healthy structures in a department where you always have someone who pushes on having good cultures. As a result, if there are administrative weaknesses, you always have someone who pushes on the things that are important to push, and that can be good to lean on for a good administration in a department. I hope that the Minister of Finance in particular will take it further. I don't think it's about more bureaucracy, I'm talking about a more effective bureaucracy through having good internal audit procedures.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-10.ana.ud2318e254	I would like to thank the Committee for its cooperation, for its good questions, for its good attitude and for its ability to explain in a thorough manner the changes we have made in my Department, the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion, and for the changes that we are also continuing to make. I want to take advantage of the opportunity to thank the praise that members of the Committee have given – I appreciate that – and also to make sure that this work will continue to have a high priority on my part. In the context of this so-called grant case, we have learned that assessing on a case-by-case basis whether all relevant beneficiaries are aware of the possibility of applying for grants requires discretionary judgement. The general rule of economic legislation is that grants are to be published. Because it is good management of Community resources to establish grant schemes that give both new and former beneficiaries the same opportunity to apply for grants, we – as I have explained before – set up five new grant schemes from 2013. In addition, we continue three schemes from 2012. All the arrangements will be announced. In order to ensure coherent grant management, the new grant schemes will also be delegated to underlying agencies. In the 2013 budget, we have also moved funds so that subsidies are paid out of the correct item. I believe it is right for the committee to ask the Riksaudition to follow up the government of the ministries in its future audits, as they do in their position. The case has also shown the importance of good practice and good knowledge of the legislation on stability and record-keeping. It has identified the need for systems and competences to ensure that practices are in line with rules and procedures. The new procedures of BLD staff management introduced in conversion to a new electronic processing system last March help to ensure this. We will ensure, through annual random checks, that these procedures are followed up. We also extend the random checks to look at how to announce them. We have also established written procedures for assessing viability, both for civil service and political leadership in the BLD. Staff and political management shall be adequately trained in the provisions on viability. The procedures specify how questions of assessment of viability are to be addressed and documented in the ministry. I have noticed that the Committee believes it is important and right that the BLD has sought advice from the DFØ, but that the Committee believes that the BLD should consider seeking advice and competence from others who can contribute to improving the ministry’s practice. I can assure everyone that everyone who can contribute to improvements will be heard, even though the ministry has so far only dealt with those who administer this part of the economic legislation, which is DFØ, and which has a special work to do with this precisely against the ministries. They're the ones who have the expertise on how to get the best of us. Finally, I want to assure the Committee that, as I said, the work will continue to be given high priority in the ministry. Work on improvements, and not least the establishment of routines, is a long-term work that must be ongoing. I will also ensure that the competence of the department is continuously maintained and improved. By this I believe that we have established systems and structures that together will provide good management of the community's resources. I would also like to thank for the cooperation and say that this has been a very instructive process, as well as everything else.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-10.ana.ud2318e271	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-10.ana.ud2318e285	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-10.ana.ud2318e299	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-10.ana.ud2318e305	Let's go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-10.ana.ud2318e336	Case No. 2 and 3 are the second time legal proceedings. There is no proposal for a comment, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-10.ana.ud2318e350	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
