ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e119	The representative Tove Karoline Knutsen and Heidi Greni, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. Two permit applications are available: from the Group of the Progressive Party on the Permit of the Representative for the Øyvind Waksdal from 19 March to 22 March to take part in the 128th Conference of the Workers' Party Group of the Interparliamentary Union in Ecuador on sick leave of the representative Eirin Sund from 19 March and until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representatives of Rogaland County Laila Thorsen and Terje Halleland are invited to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e159	Laila Thorsen and Terje Halleland are present and will take their seats. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e175	There is a proposal for a representative from Hallgeir Langeland, Snorre Serigstad Valen, Eirin Sund, Truls Wickholm, Marianne Marthinsen and Jette Christensen to investigate the republic as a form of government in Norway. This has ended in three proposals during the examination of the Committee on Control. The majority, consisting of the Central Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Advance Party and the representatives of Kolberg and Nybakk from the Workers' Party, propose that the proposal be rejected. The minority – Jette Christensen, from the Workers’ Party, and SV – promote proposals to this effect, while the representative from the Left proposes that the proposal be annexed to the Minutes. I expect minorities to present their reasons for the proposals. What is the majority's assessment is that the Kingdom of Norway is a free, maritime and indivisible and inalienable empire, and that our constitutional monarchy is not a barrier to our constitutional democracy, where the Storing, as the supreme elected body, represents the power of the people. We are all aware that the king was deprived of political power at the 7th of June in 1905. The 7th of June and the referendum also agreed that the government would assume unlimited responsibility through the so-called countersignature of the king's decisions. This was subsequently confirmed by a separate constitutional amendment, § 31, on 15 August 1911. Members of the Government then had the right to reserve, i.e. not co-responsibility for the government's decision under the Constitution § 30. What's central is what the majority emphasizes, that our constitutional monarchy has acted in accordance with the constitutional rules that have existed since 1905. These are consistent with the view of the bulk population. For this reason, the constitutional monarchy has not been weakened. Therefore, to say that the abolition of the monarchy because it is not democratic, has no foundation in our governance, as enshrined in the Constitution. Furthermore, it is a prerequisite for our constitutional democracy that it must have a broad disintegration among people. In order for this to be cultivated in the future, all layers of the people must feel represented by the king and the queen exercising kingly power and symbolic headship. That's what's essential. Since 1905 the King and the Queen have acted according to our constitutional democracy and have acted in such a way that they embrace far and gather what is common understanding in Norwegian society. Thus has a broad disintegration about the royal role that one should fill. On this basis, on behalf of the majority, I recommend that the draft representative should not be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e190	Thank you very much to Mr Lundtegen for dealing with this matter with great weight and seriousness. It is a very different proposal that has come to the Storting than those that have previously dealt with republic. In the past, an advanced proposal to abolish the royal house and introduce republics without, to varying degrees, defining what it really is. Often when one discusses the royal house, talk about the fact that there is a very broad uprising among the people about the royal house today. It's not that weird. Our royal house does a very good job and shoots the position in a glittering way. This proposal is not distrustful of the royal house we have today. But one of the reasons why there's so much fuss out is that you haven't had an option. There is no real alternative to the regime we have today. That's what we want. It's a very little radical proposal that lies in the Storting today. What is radical is to think that jobs and positions in Norway are to be inherited. We believe that positions, positions and positions in the Norwegian society are best assigned through people's trust through elections, not through inheritance. Yesterday we received a new discussion in the storage room about what Norwegian values are. There can be a lot of discussion, but I mean a continuous Norwegian value is that those who represent the people in positions of power are derived from the people. We're all in here dependent on the people's trust. I think that should also apply to the head of state, not only in informal polls of opinion, but through choices. Many times one of them shows that the royal house is congregated. That's it. But I can't see that the people themselves have chosen a head of state, will not work collectively. I think that's a little wrong. This discussion is a bit of a strange discussion, because the counter-argument against issuing a new form of governance in Norway is that it's going so well. It's very rare that kind of argument is valid in other political issues, where one says that we're some of it, we see that the principle basically doesn't reflect any other parts of Norwegian society and Norwegian democracy, but now it's like that, and so we can just keep on having it like that. The reason why we've gone in to settle the world's most common democratic governance and see if it suits Norway is that we're of the opinion that jobs and positions are best distributed by measuring people's trust, not through inheritance. That is why I will be on the minority proposal that has been submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e209	The representative Jette F. Christensen has then taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e212	I would like to begin by thanking the case rapporteur for his introduction. I rely mainly on his assessments. I ask myself if it is a popular requirement in Norway to replace the monarchy with the Republic. Of course, there are some individuals who think this is a good idea, but in my experience it's a very, very small minority. I hardly remember anyone stopping me on the street and saying, "Now you at the Stortinget must soon have a republic introduced." Based on the people I'm talking to, I think the population can be divided into two main groups: those who are enthusiastic monarchies, and the more pragmatic ones who don't see the need to replace a system that works perfectly well. I define myself into the last group. In English they say, ‘If it isn’t broken, don’t fix it’. I don't think it makes sense to spend money and time figuring out something that we don't want or need. Our monarchy serves as a positive and collapsing symbol for the population. It may have a limited meaning in our everyday lives, but it is important when the nation is in crisis, in disasters, terrorist acts such as July 22, etc. I also believe that our monarchy has a positive impact on the marketing of our country. Our royal family has a significant travel activity and has contributed to putting Norway, Norwegian culture and Norwegian business on the map abroad. So they've done a very positive job. From a political point of view, the monarchy cannot be said to be a problem either. The real political power of the monarch has been gone for over 100 years, and our king has hardly been able to raise any political environments with his statements. It may not be all about the monarchy that causes considerable enthusiasm for the undersigned, but the scheme is basically very good and is a fine national symbol. It's a gathering institution, and it's positive in the marketing of our country. I am therefore in favour of not accepting the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e229	The form of Norway's rule is hereditary monarchy, and it implies that the formal state headship is held by a person who has inherited this position, and not given it by the people through elections. It was claimed in between that the king was given this position by election, because a choice was made more than 100 years ago, where less than half of the population could vote. In most other contexts, I don't think the Storting would have benefited from such a practice today. According to the Constitution, the king stands as head of state over us – the elected parliament – and even above the prime minister. Any position based on inherited rights is, of course, – and it is unnecessary to point out – an anachronism in a democratic society. The monarchy is a premise from a time when it was an authoritarian government and is therefore unsuitable as a democratic symbol. Last, but not least, a transition to the Republic is the natural end point of the democratisation that began in Norway in 1814, and which had been completed in many ways when the Stortinget deprived the king of the last remnants of formal power in the resolution of the Union, which several representatives have been in the past. It is not, however, that the Royal House today refrains from using political power on various occasions, and I will come back to that. The Republic is today the most common form of government in the world, and it is because it is the most natural form of government in the world. We – the proposers – want to change the Constitution, so that Norway too will have a head of state elected by the people, i.e. A president. There is a separate constitutional proposal on this, which we have discussed earlier, and which will also be discussed in the next period. Then I expect everyone to agree that within that time it is reasonable that there are alternatives and real assessments of what kind of governance should be put in place. Among the more central issues that should be addressed is: What power should a president have? How is the President to be elected? This proposal for a representative therefore proposes that the Stortinget should ask the Government to investigate different options for the Republic as a government in Norway and submit its assessments and proposals to the Stortinget in good time before the discussion – in the next period – of the constitutional proposal I have just mentioned. It has not been long since we dealt with previous proposals – which SV had promoted alone – on the introduction of republics as a form of government in Norway. Then there was no one in this room who was willing to defend the monarchy in principle. The argument that went back was that the proposal was too poorly investigated, that you didn't know what transition to the Republic would result from formalities, costs and what kind of presidential rule you should have. It is strange that the same representatives today will vote against our proposal for a proper investigation. And as the representative Christensen had in mind, it's a somewhat unusual practice. Usually, the Stortinget is very happy to have full clarity about what it is really about. This is a debate we need, because this is not just symbolism policies and markers. The King is given a place in our Constitution as sacred. It is contrary to the most fundamental democratic ideals of equivalency. In Christmas, there were probably a lot of people who saw the heir to the throne, Ingrid Alexandra, doing her first performance on TV. Ingrid Alexandra will grow up today without being able to engage politically. She will not be able to choose or choose religion. She will not be able to express herself freely about what she means. She will not be able to choose for herself what she will be. She will feel the pressure of an almost total collapse and millions of Northmen who expect her to be an ambassador and a representative of the country. As her father, she will also probably do it of course: yes, I have decided to adjourn, but it is right that I take over the throne interview at the NRK, not long after she becomes authoritative. But we all really want to know with ourselves that she has had no choice. That's not right. Heads of State must be elected and directly accountable to their people, and in modern democratic societies it is not that children from them are very small and throughout their lives should feel the pressure of millions of people and be told what they should feel, do and be. Many people very much disagree with our proposal, and that is good, because I want to debate, but then I miss the actual counter-arguments. I miss that we're going past the subjugating arguments. I've heard serious, respected politicians use arguments like, "Oh, are we supposed to have Carl I. Hagen as president?" That's not an argument for the monarchy. That's at best an argument to vote for someone other than Carl I. Hagen. That a politician could never be as unifying as the king is not an argument for the monarchy. That is an argument against democracy, and it is otherwise – and I regret the use of words – just customs and stuff. Of course, elected representatives can be, and are, gathering and national symbols – at good and bad: Kennedy, Gro, Gerhardsen, Kohl etc. It works so well today, the variation is the majority of the population has chosen to put on today, and that's quite right. We have a great royal family. They're good too, and they're good. I am not aiming at these appeals to criticism of the royal house that tabloid media practice among themselves, with guru appeals, angels, expensive bags that Mette-Marit has bought, etc. It's completely, completely on the side of the debate. But I aim that they largely refrain from politics – mostly. The Crown Prince begins to move into political waters with Young Global Leaders, IMF jobs, opening of aluminium works in authoritarian countries and much more. And the king gave clear notice to Trond Giske in 2008 about the future's requirements for the creed of the state at large. Then the king actively entered into our decision-making processes. It was accepted and treated as a trifle. But it's not. It's basically problematic. Mostly, the royal house keeps away from politics. There is something missing in this debate, and it is that some of the representatives who are today going to vote against this proposal come to this pulpit and hold their principal argument for the monarchy. It is not sustainable that we have a constitution that is not the majority of the population willing to defend in principle – because it works well today. In no other area of the Basic Law, such a weak argument, which is so weak in the principles upon which we have built this country, would be accepted. Is there anyone who would like to come up to the pulpit and make a flaming contribution to the king's sanctuary and indecentness? Is there anyone who wants to come up on this pulpit and make a flaming statement about the inheritance as a principle? Is there anyone here who wants to come up to the pulpit and tell me that the king is holy? Does the Progress Party mean it? Does the Right mean that? Does the Workers' Party mean it? The party of progress tends otherwise to be very happy to point out that things are not sacred, even those things that are most important to people. So far I haven't seen anyone who's willing to come up on this pulpit and do it, and I'm afraid we're not going to see it today either. However, in an informed society, in 2013, it should be expected that the burden of proof lies on those who believe that this metaphysically invented, wild, despicable, out-of-date, symbolic, practical problematic and conservative regime is the right way to organise one of the best and most democratic countries in the world. Shame, nostalgia, jokes about bad presidents and easy defecation by saying that it works well today, should no longer last. I had been delighted to debate, and I had hoped that the Storting could at least determine what it would be like, how we could take the step and become one of the countries that make up the great majority of the world that have no hereditary heads, but that debate we will not get because no one is willing to come up on this pulpit and defend the king's holiness and inviolability.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e263	I think I'm using this pulpit, and not it down in the hall. I cannot satisfy all Serigstad Valen's wishes for a debate. To characterize our king as a Jew, I think maybe not quite meet people's perception of what it's like in Norway. It may be the SV's problem that they focus on debates to solve problems we don't have. I agree with Mr Christensen on one point, namely that this is a strange discussion. When we launch investigations in Norway, it tends to be to solve a problem. I think very few nordics perceive the kingdom as a problem, and even less the royal house, as it works, as a problem. What works does not have to be repaired, and it is in itself a good principle to live by. I can also live well with the strange term ideologically given by Jette Christensen, namely that defending the existing system with a kingdom is a radical position, and that the exodus of the republic is a form of conservatism. I can live with that as a strange term. If it should never be so radical, I feel at home in it. Saying that a king is bad enough as a democratic symbol, I do not actually agree, because I believe that the Norwegian king, when he travels around the world, is perceived as a representative of an accomplished democratic and open country – accomplished unification and implemented democratically. I just want to end by saying that Serigstad Valen should read his story better with regard to those he highlights as excellent presidents. The still living Helmut Kohl was perhaps not the most typical collector as chancellor in his time, and Kennedy was probably the most collective after he was shot. So historical examples of politicians who can gather, I think he has to look for even better. Of course, I see a danger to a Stein Eagle High as a presidential candidate, but I feel quite confident that that election will be long until we get.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e278	I take the floor to state that I – along with the representative Marit Nybakk – support the majority in this matter. I refer to the rapporteur's fundamental argument regarding our position that this proposal should not be accepted by the Stortinget. It is true, of course, as has been said – and that is a natural thing to say – that Norway is a constitutional democracy. It is a monarchy, but it is primarily a parliamentary democracy. The representative, Serigstad Valen, calls for real arguments for not investigating the question of transition to the Republic. I believe that in his line of argument, which I respect, it is a significant failure, and that is that Serigstad Valen, and perhaps also the other proposers, does not put into his democratic mind that the kingdom has a anchor in a referendum – it is commented on by Serigstad Valen and others, I heard that – but above all that history has since shown a very broad popular anchoring. This popular anchoring is a very democratic force, and that's what I think you're ignoring. For this democratic force, which is represented in a very uproar about the king and the kingdom, is linked to the fact that this has worked democratically. I think that the examples of the representative Serigstad Valen here, about the border with political activity on the part of the royal house, were weak and somewhat sought after. For what is the picture, and which creates the popular uprising on the democratic basis of the royal house, the king and the kingdom, is precisely that they have followed throughout history the place they have been given, not under the Constitution, but according to the popular understanding of how the kingdom should be placed. So you could say, if you wanted to, it wouldn't be wrong to do this. But if the Storting were to adopt it later today, one would set in motion a process that I am convinced would be contrary to the people's opinion, and I do not think the Storing should do that. Because if there's a matter where we're going to listen to what's the people's opinion, it's right on this question. I don't think the Storting should start an investigation into the liquidation of the royal house – because that's what it's about – and about the kingdom when we know that the people mean something else. I don't know, of course I don't, but if we put this out for a referendum today, I'm going to find that we would have an equally strong uprising about the kingdom now that we got in 1905 – at least almost. Moreover, such a discussion would destabilise a great deal of our democratic understanding, and I do not think we should contribute to that either. On such a basis, on behalf of the representative, Marit Nybakk, and myself, I would like to make it clear that we would recommend the Workers' Party's Group, when we come to voting later today, to vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e293	I would like to include the Left's proposal in the vote, that the proposal be annexed to the Minutes, and refer to the comment of the Left in the vote. If the proposal from the Left is not supported, we shall vote in favour of the proposal not being accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e298	The representative Borghild Tende has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e301	I'm not going to repeat Snorre Serigstad Valen's brilliant, principal posts. But I just have to suck a little at the top of the Labour Party, Martin Kolberg, because in a similar debate a year ago, it was said that SV's proposal was too bad. One had to figure it out if one were to evaluate it. So we come today and do exactly what the King-Political spokesperson has said -- we go in to figure it out. And then one should vote down what it was basically right to do a year ago. This I thought is very strange. When he now defends inheritance as a principle, one should well implement that principle in other areas as well. What about having succession in the Labour Party, for example? It could be a development – if one thinks this is important. So this is very unprincipled, and it's regrettable that not a kingly figure in the Labour Party, Martin Kolberg, is in on this, just to keep what he criticized us for last year. So a explanation of vote: it's discussed with proposer Jette F. Christensen when it comes to how to vote here. I see that the left cannot support us subsidiaryly. We propose to vote on our proposal first, and then subsidiaryly on the Left's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e309	We come back to the vote and put it up so that everyone in the room will be given an expression of their vision. The left has already announced that they will vote in favour of the vote, i.e. that the proposal is not accepted. This is for information only.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e312	It's just to say that I didn't get the principal answers I asked for, but exactly what I predicted – as I also said in my previous post – that you choose very practical and pragmatic answers to what is a fundamental question. I think one day, the future king or queen will choose – whether the present or some of the next – to say no, choose to adjourn. They'll choose to say no, I don't want to do this with my life. I want to be a normal person in the beautiful, free, democratic country of Norway. It is a possible scenario that the few of those who have made contributions to this matter today seem to have thought about. That's enough because I'm right in noting that in this inheritance order it's actually a significant element of coercion. But it's going to happen. One day, the king or queen will adjourn. If nothing else, it would have been okay if the Storting had at least been concerned that we would one day be organizing ourselves as a perfect, free government, without a hereditary head of state. The representative of Kolberg said that something as harmless as initiating an investigation into what Norway would look like as a republic, would ‘destabilise very much of our democratic understanding’. I must admit that I do not understand any of it, so I wonder if the representative of Kolberg can explain what he thinks that an investigation into the republic will destabilise our democratic understanding. I think an investigation will expand it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e326	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e340	The first speaker is the representative Per Olaf Lundteg, who is one of several rapporteurs on the subject.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e343	In the absence of the chairman of the committee, I have his role here today. First, I would like to refer to a letter from the Royal Ministry of Foreign Affairs, dated 15 March. It is from the State Council Eidsvoll Holmås to the Foreign Affairs Committee, with a copy to the Control Committee. Councils want to provide the Stortinget with up-to-date information on the administration and implementation of the 2011 budget by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The core issue is that the OECD has recommended that Norway change its practice when Norwegian aid for forest conservation in Brazil is considered to be official aid. This means that the funds can only be reported as official assistance when the funds are available to the recipient. However, Norway has so far reported this as official assistance in the year in which the funds are transferred to the bank account of Norway, and on the basis of the OECD recommendation, Norway has now adjusted its reporting. The size will be further briefed on the support for the rainforest management in Brazil in connection with the submission of the revised national budget since this year. So to the present case, as it is shown in the setting. I want to focus on the departments for which the committee chairman and I are the case rapporteurs, but I also want to take some general considerations. The Committee points out that the National Audit Office has audited the national accounts and the accounts of the administration of Svalbard. The review and control of the National Audit Office is part of the constitutional control system in the Norwegian Constitution. Similarly, the Stortinget is permitted to exercise control over the exercise of power, inter alia. through the annual audit of the accounts of the State. The 2011 national accounts show an oil-corrected deficit of 79,4 billion. kr versus 104.1 br. kr in 2010. The National Audit Office has issued 200 audit letters without comment and 24 audit letters with note in 2011, which are about the same level as in 2010. In Norway, central government continues to function well, but the National Audit Office continues to report serious weaknesses and deficiencies in several societally critical areas. It is particularly serious that the deficiencies are repeatedly pointed out, without them being corrected. This year, too, the National Audit Office reports on accounts that are not auditable. The Committee considers it extremely serious that accounts be made of such a quality that they cannot be audited. The Committee has noted that there are still activities that have not established a satisfactory risk management system as part of the target and performance management. The Committee points out that since 2003 the Financial Regulation has required the establishment of a system to assess and monitor the risk of non-achievement. Missing risk assessments may result in significant deviations from the target achievement being not identified, prevented or corrected. A recurring problem is the enforcement of the procurement rules, which must ensure the proper use of public funds and prevent maladministration and corruption. The national audit has for a number of years reported weaknesses and shortcomings in this area. The Committee notes that, although extensive measures have been put in place in recent years, they are not yet in place. There is still room for improvement, and the Committee asks the Riksrevision to follow up on this in the forthcoming review of the activities concerned. The Committee has noted that the Riksrevision reports on a significant amount of errors in the payment of benefits within welfare schemes and that this level exceeds the acceptable level. The Committee asks the Riksrevision to follow-up on this in the ongoing review. The Committee points out that both the National Audit Office and the Maritime Committee have focused on the Ministry's grant management in recent years. In the 2010 audit, the grant management of 13 ministries was checked. The National Audit Office had comments in nine cases. The Committee is concerned that the review for 2011 has shown that the measures taken have not provided the necessary improvements. In the winter of 2012, the Committee of the Regions carried out a study of the Ministry's grant management as set out below. Inner. 47 S for 2011-2012. The background was information in the media on irregular conditions of grant management in some ministries. The Committee’s studies showed that most of the data worked well. I want to underline it – most of it worked well. But many departments planned to improve their routines. For the treatment of Inst. 47 S decided to ask the National Audit Office to follow up the Ministry's grant management in its future audits. So on to the Ministry of Defence, which is one of the departments I am responsible for. There we point out that the Riksrevision has issued three final audit letters without notice and one final audit letter with a note to the Defence. The Committee further points out that the National Audit Office has significant observations relating to the accounts of the Defence Material Management, to the production of strength and operational activities, to acquisitions, to delays in investment projects and to the accounts of the new frigates. The Committee would point out that the Riksaudiert is serious about the fact that in 2011, almost half of the Armed Forces’ operating acquisitions, nearly three years after the introduction of the FIF 2.0, did not follow the main process of the system, since the main process is to be used for acquisitions in order to capture the use of budgetary resources in the commitment accounts, thereby improving the ability of the defence to exercise effective financial management. The Committee notes that the main process was followed in 80 pst. of the cases in May 2012. The Committee, like the Riksrevision, assumes that in the management dialogue with the Defence Department this relationship is specifically followed up. Furthermore, the Committee notes that the Ministry of Defence continues that the defence has competence challenges and that in several areas there is a need for better and more appropriate complex competences. The Committee expects that the competence situation in the defence as a whole will be addressed in a separate, forthcoming paper. The Committee will note that the Riksrevision concludes that measures taken to address weaknesses in procurement processes have not had an expected effect, but that the Ministry of Defence, for example, has had an impact. works to recruit suitably qualified personnel. The Committee notes that the Riksrevision is serious about the fact that nearly half of the 42 medium-sized investment projects audited were delayed by one year or more compared to the original plans and that eight of them were delayed by at least three years. According to the National Audit Office, these delays can largely stem from the resource situation of the Defence Logistics Organisation (FLO). The Committee would point out that the Stortinge has previously criticised major delays in defence investment projects on several occasions. The Committee notes that through the governance dialogue with the Defence Department, the Ministry of Defence will provide clear priorities related to the investment portfolio. The Committee notes that the Riksrevision is serious about the challenges of crewing technical staff on board the frigates. The frigates are complex systems that impose high standards of competence. The Committee notes that the Ministry of Defence admits that it will take some time before the actions undertaken within parts of the FLO, which will support the operational structure of the Maritime Defence Agency, will have the necessary effect. The Committee would stress the importance of prioritising the Ministry of Defence to ensure high operational capacity for the frigates. The Committee takes note of the statement by the Ministry that the sailing activity for 2011 was at the level planned for the end of the long term 2009-2012. As regards the Ministry of Knowledge, the Committee will refer to the audit and control of the Ministry and its underlying activities by the National Audit Office. The Committee notes that 43 final audit letters have been issued without comments and six with comments on the University of Oslo, Norway's Higher Music School, Norway's School of Sport, the School of Architecture and Design in Oslo, the University of Volda and the Centre for Internationalisation of Education respectively. The Committee points out that, in its letter of 31 January 2013 to the Ministry, it raised questions of non-compliance with the rules for the remuneration of scientific staff in the university and higher education sectors, the UH sector, and breaches of the rules on public acquisitions. The Council of State replied in a letter dated 8 February 2013. The letter is attached to the setting. Furthermore, the Committee has noted that more than one establishment in the higher education sector still does not comply with the rules on wages and salaries of scientific staff. The Ministry of Knowledge has stated in its reply to the Committee that several measures have been put in place to strengthen and clarify the role and obligations of the Board of Directors, in order to ensure that institutions are in a position to avoid breaches of legislation. Conditions are included at the etat management meetings with the institutions concerned and in the letters of allocation for 2012. This will also be followed up in the 2013 governance dialogue. The Committee expects the institutions concerned to follow up, so that the matters referred to are addressed. Furthermore, the Committee noted that the Riksrevision also pointed out for 2011 that a number of scientific staff have been involved in beekeeping and private business without the existence of procedures to ensure sufficient transparency around these sites. The Committee considers it desirable for scientific staff in the sector to be engaged in business and social activities outside the sector, but stresses the importance of ensuring that beekeeping and participation do not conflict with the primary position, so that the confidence in the independence of scientific staff is weakened. Transparency on these issues is important. The Committee therefore asks the Ministry to ensure compliance with the legislation so that there are no conflicts of role and stability. The Committee has noted that an overarching theme for the establishments which have received audit letters with comments is a lack of compliance with the acquisition legislation. This applies, as mentioned above, to five out of six establishments. The Ministry has stated in the letter of reply that they take a serious view of the facts that the Riksaudition has revealed both in terms of compliance with the legislation and the financial statements themselves for 2011. All institutions that have received significant comments on the annual accounts for 2011 have been followed up by the Ministry at various meetings in spring and autumn 2012 to ensure that the necessary measures have been taken. The Committee has noted that in 2013 the Ministry will have meetings of the Management Board with the activities that have received significant comments on the annual accounts for 2011 and that the Ministry will then assess the need for further follow-up measures to the institutions concerned. As regards the Ministry of the Environment, the Committee points out that the Riksrevision has issued seven final audit letters without comment and two final audit letters with note. This concerns the Directorate of Nature Management and the Norwegian Cultural Memory Fund. The Committee further points out that the Riksrevision has significant observations relating to the accounts of grants for preventive and conflict mitigation measures in the management of predators and Norwegian Cultural Memory Fund. The Committee notes that the Riksrevision considers it critical that the Ministry has not reviewed an evaluation of the system of grants for preventive and conflict mitigation measures in the management of wild game. The Committee has also noted that the audit has shown that the reporting on the grant scheme, obtained by the Directorate for Nature Management, is deficient and that funds have been allocated to measures that are considered not to have a direct loss reduction effect. The Committee finds it extremely unfortunate that funds are allocated to measures that are considered not to have a direct loss reduction effect. The Committee notes that the Ministry has informed the National Audit Office that they will review the legislation in order to ensure that the grant scheme is practised as equally as possible. The Committee would point out that, under the mandate of the Ministry, the Directorate for Nature Management has laid down new rules for grants for preventive and conflict mitigation measures in the management of wild game in force from 1 January of the current year to 2013. The Committee points out that the Riksrevision is critical of the fact that the Ministry of the Environment has not satisfactorily followed up established conditions for the grant management of the Cultural Memory Fund. The Committee would point out that the rationale for the establishment of the Cultural Memory Fund was the need to strengthen efforts to ensure the protection of cultural memories and environments. Like the National Audit Office, the Committee takes a serious view that grants linked to commitments resulting from the poor follow-up of the Cultural Memory Fund may have contributed to the non-implementation as foreseen of projects for the protection of valuable cultural memories or environments. The Committee notes that the Cultural Memory Fund has informed the Ministry of the Environment that it would clean up in 2012 all older, open commitments. The Committee therefore considers that this has been done. The Committee notes that the ongoing review will follow-up on the issue of the management of grant funds. With regard to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade, the Committee refers to the audit and control of the Ministry and its underlying activities by the National Audit Office. The Committee has noted that eight final audit letters have been issued without comments and two audit letters with comments. This concerns Norwegian Romsenter and the Export Credit Guarantee Institute, GIEK. The Committee points out that the questions raised by letter of 31 January 2013 to the Ministry concerning the Altinn, GIEK and Norsk Romsenter were raised in its letter of 31 January 2013. The Council of State replied by letter of 11 February 2013. The letters are attached to the setting. The Committee considers it extremely serious that there has been an increase in the number of adverse events in the region in the last few years, so that operational interruptions and critical error situations have occurred. It is also very serious that the problems of the existing solution have hampered the deployment of new services and created uncertainty about Altin to address the volumes needed by Nav in the solution. According to the Ministry’s reply to the Committee, the current Altinn platform is to be phased out during the summer of 2013. Together with the work on a new tax solution, to be implemented during the first half of 2013, the Ministry expects new ALTIN solution both to be robust and to have sufficient capacity to receive new services and service owners, including several Nav services. The Committee expects the Ministry to follow up and assess the need for measures to ensure that the current ALTIN solution also has the operational security necessary for the examination of the declarations in spring 2013. The Committee points out that, in several areas, GIEK has had poor governance of its own activities, including: cost control and budgetary management. The Ministry states in the letter of reply that in meeting GIEK they have taken up the noted comments from the Riksrevision and discussed the necessary follow-up actions. The Committee has noted that the Ministry has asked for priority in the 2013 letter of allocation and that the Ministry will follow up this work in the ordinary governance dialogue with GIEK.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e425	I would like to begin by saying that for the Storting there is every reason to focus attention on the treatment of Document 1 for 2012–2013, which is a very thorough review of the work of government and administration. I would also like to take the opportunity to say to the people of the Riksrevision, as I see it is widely represented here today, that it is doing a very good job in the Riksrevision, and that it is a very qualitatively good document that Stortinget has been sent – this time as well. So it is very clear from the rapporteur's broad statement that the committee has gone into this matter, and that there is a great deal of agreement about very, very many aspects of the position that is here. It is not in any way difficult to support the Riksrevision's points of improvement potential either, especially in the following areas that I choose to mention here. It's: establishment of internal control and risk management system better accounting quality improved interaction with well-functioning ICT solutions Public Acquisitions Procedure Reducing error payments within welfare systems These are the points made in the statements made by the rapporteur, but I also stress that we support the views expressed by the National Audit Office on administrative practices in these areas. Some fields require continuous follow-up. In order to ensure quality in other areas, long-term improvement efforts are needed. Since it is always that when Stortinget deals with these matters, we put our finger on what is not quite right, or that is not working, and we will do that. It is also important to say that it appears clearly in Document 1 that we have a central government that works well. That's really what it says first and foremost. We have a central government that is good at being a quality expert. It is not that when the Stortinge treats Document 1 again today, we have a fundamental problem with our government. I would also like to mention that we are going to be quite satisfied with – then I say quite pleased with – that the departments are showing good will for improvement. There is no conflict potential between what the Riksrevision writes, what the Stortinget is dealing with and the reality that the departments have in general. These things also seem to me to be important in the extension of the rapporteur's posts, because this is important to be emphasised when the matter is being dealt with here. We have dealt with this matter a little later this year than we have done in previous years. It is worth noting that a lot has happened in the departments since they gave their feedback to Document 1 in August 2012. For example, some departments have already followed recommendations from the National Audit Office further in their letters of assignment to underlying agencies and establishments. We have not obtained an up-to-date overview of further follow-up, nor should we, but the picture is that the departments are complying with references and follow-up in their ongoing management and business management – as I have already said. I am the case rapporteur for two departments, one of which is the Ministry of Finance. I am pleased to note that there are no comments from the National Audit Office regarding the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry also makes arrangements to amend the rules to reduce errors in a particularly difficult field of action. It is a matter of simplification that can even be a good tool, and it is the Ministry of Children and Family that, in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour, implements regulation simplification to ensure error reduction in parental leave. This is particularly noted, and I say it's good that it's done. As regards the responsibilities of the Ministry of Local Affairs, one comment has been made concerning the Directorate for Building Quality and the Construction Market. There is a heavy note, and there are weaknesses in the follow-up to the procurement rules and the bookkeeping. Local surveillance and follow-up of messages have become alarming in this field and the frequency of surveillance is important. Otherwise, the risk of inadequacy is high, and the reorganisation and relocation of the establishment in 2011 has led to a markedly lower quality in this important area. It is not desirable and clearly pointed out by the Committee. It's clear that moving with the result that one gets 80 pst. New employees, of course, give a new start, and then it is natural to follow up on this important area, so that we get proper control of the quality of construction in Norway. I'm asking the National Audit Board to follow this, so we can get a report back that this note is being followed up properly, because this is very important for people most, and for the construction quality of the Norwegian community.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e465	Document 1 is the National Audit Office's annual report on the state of the state. In my almost four years on the control committee, I have been impressed by the work done by the audit. This version of Document 1 is not an exception. Although administrative audit reports tend to be the most widely looked up in the media, Document 1 is the most important report dealing with the constitutional control system we have against the executive. The audit covers the national accounts as a whole and, in addition, the administration of Svalbard. In my speech, I would like to try to highlight some of the main points in the fields for which the members of the Committee of the Progressive Party are the case-rapporteurs, as my two colleagues in the Committee, the representative, Mr Vaksdal and the representative, Mr Anundsen, are gone today because of foreign missions and funerals, respectively. It is our view that the central government in Norway works well, but continues to report serious weaknesses and deficiencies in several societally critical areas. This year, too, the audit reports on accounts that are not auditable. It is very serious that accounts are made of such a quality that they cannot be audited. We also note that there are still companies that have not established a satisfactory risk management system as part of the target and result management. Since 2003, the Financial Regulation has required such a system. We also note that a recurring problem is the enforcement of procurement law, which should ensure the proper use of public funds and prevent maladministration and corruption. We see it as very important that the Riksrevision in future audits follow up on the above-mentioned issues. Another aspect that also needs to be followed-up is a significant amount of errors in the payment of benefits within welfare schemes. Then I was going to say something more specific about the individual departments. I was actually going to start by talking a lot about the Ministry of Knowledge, but the rapporteur has made an excellent presentation of the Committee's views in this very important area, and I would just like to refer here to the rapporteur's comments on acquisitions, and also on the rules on the beekeeping and role of scientific staff in private business. Also with regard to the Ministry of Industry and Trade, the case rapporteur did an excellent job, and I want to refer to his comments regarding GIEK. In the case of Altin, I could imagine saying that in recent years there has been an increase in adverse events, such as breakdowns in operations and critical fault situations. The problems have hampered the deployment of new services and created uncertainty as to whether or not Altin can tackle the volumes needed by Nav in the solution. The Committee has noted that the current ALTINN platform will be phased out during the summer of 2013 and that a new solution will be robust enough and have enough capacity to receive new services — including several Nav services. However, we must be able to expect that the current ALTINN solution also has the necessary operational security when dealing with the declaration in spring 2013. So to the Ministry of Transport: Under the Ministry of Transport, five final audit letters have been issued without comments, and one with a note to the Railway Agency. The Committee finds it critical that the accounts of the Railway Agency for 2011 are so lacking that the Riksrevision has not been able to confirm the accounts. Furthermore, the Committee considers it critical that the Railway Agency has not had an overview of its procurement agreements and that it has been difficult to find evidence of compliance with the procurement rules and of the control procedures in place. This criticism agrees with all the parties. With regard to the follow-up and the handling of the matters referred to, the majority of the Committee, the members of the Party of Advancement, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, consider this to be very serious and ask the Department immediately to clear up these matters, while the members of the Committee from the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre are somewhat more cautious in the criticism. These lots point out that the Railway Agency has put in place measures and assumes that the Ministry is following the conditions indicated. The Committee also notes that half of the appropriations for the racial protection of the county roads are unused for 2011. It was also a under-use in 2010. The Committee has noted that new guidelines for the use of funds have been put in place and require the Ministry to assess the need for further action to improve this. So to some of the areas for which I myself have been the case rapporteur. In the case of the Ministry of Renewal, Administration and Church, 43 final audit letters have been issued without any comments and one final audit letter with comments on State Building. At the beginning of this article, I was concerned with the non-implementation of risk management in line with the legislation. I'm not going to repeat it, but just refer to the thorough review we've given this in the notes. What I want to focus on, however, is State Building. The Committee has noted that the Riksrevision has significant observations on the accounts of Staatsbyggen. The National Audit Office is critical that State Building has not adapted the systems to enable the Riksaudition to carry out an effective and targeted audit. I would like to stress that establishments subject to the audit and control of the Riksaudition should facilitate such a review so that the Riksaudition considers it appropriate to carry out the audit and control tasks it deems necessary. I have noticed that the department has taken this on board, and that measures are in progress, both short-term and more long-term and basic. Finally, a few words about the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and the Ministry of Inclusion. There are seven final audit letters without comment and three final audit letters with comments on the Children’s, Youth and Family Status respectively, the Children’s and Social Affairs Departments and the Contact Committee between the immigrant population and the authorities. There are also critical comments on a not insignificant part of the ministry’s activities, and there are some aspects that are recurring in reports from the Riksrevision. This applies, inter alia, to: Bufetate, Multi-functional treatment and the state. These are also repeaters in the comments of the Control Committee. I am not going to read the extensive comments in this area, but I am going to express the wish to step up the efforts and to have an active follow-up to these fields so that they do not continue to be repeaters in the comments of the Control Committee. One thing I would like to mention, however, is the challenges faced in the area of parental death. There is an unacceptable high level of error in the procedure. Miscalculations and payments may have major implications for parents in the context of pregnancy, childbirth and adoption, and the Committee takes this seriously. Many of these errors are related to complex legislation — and interpretations — and the National Audit Office has noticed that the Ministry has started work on improvements and simplifications in this area in dialogue with the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Labour and Welfare. The Committee welcomes this and wishes to see this work given high priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e498	Document 1 is the main audit paper delivered by the Riksrevisionen. It's also where the major resources are deployed, so this is an important document. I agree with Mr Kolberg that this mainly shows an administration that works well, even after auditing, but there are some exceptions, and there are some worrying repeaters. This means that the same criticism comes to the same department year after year, without it appearing to have any effect. I will draw up one department, for which I am the rapporteur, namely the Ministry of Agriculture. There, in 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010 and now in 2011, the National Audit Office has pointed out the same thing: it is not possible to confirm the Bioforsk accounts – this time for 2011. It is not a big budget, the Ministry of Agriculture budget taken into account, but the same problem seems to have been there for several years. There is an overall committee that says that they consider this to be very critical, and refers to Bioforsk's notes in the accounts repeatedly. The Ministry, writes the Committee, ‘knows that their governance dialogue and control of the Institute are not sufficiently effective’. It must be one of the largest substatements of the year. So after five years, the dialogue has not been effective, and then the radical action has been taken to appoint a new board, or to put it straight out: to dismiss the old board. To that I would say it was time. I hope that the department will not only concentrate on having confidence in a new board, but also follow-up and ensure that their governance dialogue and control of the institute is improved. I hope these views have moved the Ministry of Agriculture to a number of times earlier than this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e505	I should just like to make a few comments on aid, i.e. development aid from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, also in view of the letter sent by the Minister for Development, dated 15 March, which was also presented by the Vice-President of the Committee. This concerns the 2011 budget. It is such that the OECD DAC Development Assistance Committee, the Committee that approves each year what can be accepted as official development assistance, official development assistance, defines not only what kind of measures and projects can be approved as official development assistance, but also which countries can be defined and approved as recipients. This means that only aid to countries eligible for eligibility as beneficiaries and the projects defined as assistance by this Committee can count on when the aid's share of gross national income is to be approved. This also applies in Norway. This sometimes creates complications. It is not rare that Norwegians have also wanted to provide assistance to countries that are not among the OECD countries that accept Norwegian aid. During the previous period, Norway chose to add the so-called rainforest money to Brazil and elsewhere to the aid budget. It was a fairly thorough and lengthy discussion – and debate – about this, because it was not given that these rain forest resources should be part of the one percent we spend on Norwegian aid. The OECD now recommends that Norway change its practice when Norwegian support for forest conservation in Brazil is considered official assistance. I have not understood that the OECD DAC questions whether rainforest money should be part of Norwegian aid, but that it is about when Norwegian aid for forest conservation in Brazil is to be regarded as official Norwegian aid. This means that the funds can only be reported as official when they are available to recipients. I expect that the debate and discussions between the Norwegian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the DAC Committee in the OECD will work reasonably well, taking into account that Erik Solheim has a rather central place in that system at the moment. After that, the 2011 aid budget is 26.7 billion. kr, i.e. 0.96 pst. of gross national income. This is quite technical, but it is important to follow international rules of play. It is a goal for the government and for the Workers' Party that we reach 1 pst. annual gross national income in aid to combat poverty, reaching the United Nations’ Millennium Development Goals and in order to improve the environment. At the same time, it is important that we also have a continuous debate on the content of the same assistance – this in order to ensure the Millennium Goals, in order to ensure a development policy that works, in order to strengthen democracy and democratic movements, in order to strengthen the situation of women and to provide an understanding that women's work actually contributes to growth and development, and indeed creates values. This is a broad consensus on assistance, with some exceptions – of course – also in the Chamber here. The National Audit Office has revised nine foreign stations and has not identified significant errors or deficiencies. I think that's something that should be emphasized. It is reassuring and shows that we have good management also in our outings when it comes to assistance, as Norad went into the regular outings several years ago. The Committee has attached some comments to the report of the National Audit Office on the management of assistance to Zambia. Zambia is a country far south of Africa. The Committee says that we are aware of the problems that lie there, including: with corruption – this is not the first time corruption has been detected in some aid projects in Zambia. Let me add that there is an overall committee that emphasizes that in the area of corruption we have zero tolerance as the guide for our aid policy. I want to add one thing. Sometimes assistance to some countries becomes static. Zambia was one of the first countries to become the main co-operation country for Norwegian development assistance. It's starting to be a few years ago. Zambia was an important frontline country under the apartheid regime in South Africa, and at that time Norway provided very much assistance to refugees from South Africa who were in Zambia. Now it is actually quite many years since that regime disappeared, and it may be other countries in Africa that deserve more assistance than a country like Zambia. This applies, inter alia, to: countries in West Africa, e.g. Liberia. It's a different discussion, but I chose to mention it because I think we might have a tendency to continue in the same track and have the same projects year after year. But the world is changing, so are some developing countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e524	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e538	In this case, there is complete agreement on all the points in the vote, so I represent here an overall committee. I'm just going to accompany this with some comments. The first of these is that it is still necessary to follow up the transposition of the legislation on measures for the allocation of what is known as Group 2 cars. What are we talking about here? Well, we're talking about the cars that disabled people need for the transport of themselves and their equipment. It comes out clearly in the setting, but I also want to say from Stortinget's pulpit that this is one of the examples that things don't always work as they should. The thing is that this has been handled in Stortinget on several occasions – several representatives from other parties have said the same thing I am now saying, but it only seems partially. I just don't understand why it won't be heard when Stortinget says unanimously that this must be done. The management of these rules needs to be organised so that we can treat applicants in a good and effective way within what is called a reasonable time. So, like the National Audit Office, a unanimous committee stresses that this must now be followed up, as it is called in the parliamentary language. That means, quite frankly, that now there has to be an order on this matter. It is not necessary to come back with new comments that there is an annual examination of these cases. Now I've said it again, and I hope this is heard by everyone who should hear it. I know that the Constitutional Council of State is not present, I see that, but I expect that the Council of State that is here will take care to convey exactly this meaning and opinion. The second thing I want to highlight on behalf of the Committee is that we also want to continue to follow up on how we are now working on reducing NOx emissions, so that international commitments are respected as quickly as possible. Of course, it's a pretty strict consideration, but it's necessary to say it, as it also appears in the setting. The third and last thing I'm going to say is targeting the defense. We remember all the discussions we had about the situation in Defense around 2007 and 2008. This has been the subject of follow-up and the Committee is very pleased that the situation is now in order. The Committee therefore agrees with the Riksrevision – and believes – that it is not now necessary to follow this up. That means it's worked. Minister of Defence Ström-Erichsen is present here, and she can bring back to her department, and certainly also to the Defence as such, that the committee expresses great satisfaction that everything that has been said about these things in the past has been corrected, that it has been well followed up, and that we are pleased that that is the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e556	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e570	The Committee has examined the Riksrevision’s inquiry into the management of aquaculture. One has highlighted three superior problem settings. One was the extent to which the evolution and status of the aquaculture industry in Norway are in line with the national target seen by the Storting to be resilient and environmentally compatible. The second was the extent to which national targets for sustainable aquaculture are achieved through drug use. And the third was whether the governance of the authorities is sufficient to ensure that the development of the aquaculture industry is sustainable. The marine industry in Norway has grown significantly over several decades. It is an important industry and it employs many, but the National Audit Office's investigation shows that the growth has had its consequences. Especially in areas with large and dense farming, the environmental consequences have been great. The main objective of the major agricultural policy is to ensure an environmental and sustainable aquaculture industry, while facilitating further growth and development in the industry. The relevance of the environment shall be a fundamental premise for further development and growth. There is a joint committee that looks very seriously at some of the Riksrevision findings. Many places are not such that the industry has had an environmentally friendly growth. In the area of fastening of farming, increased incidence of fish diseases and lice has been found and the incorporation of escaped farmed salmon is significant. The wildax population has been reduced. In 2010 it lost 47 million salmonids. Many of the losses are caused by disease, and the disease situation has not changed since 2000, we could read in the Riksrevision report. The study showed that there is a lack of knowledge when it relates to regional effects of emissions from the farming industry. Indicators are missing that can tell the extent to which management reaches the target of targeted and sustainable farming; supervision has too many regulatory breaks; similar cases may have different outcomes in an application process. The National Audit Office points in many problematic areas. The size would like to welcome both the wild and farmed industries, and we would like to make it possible for both industries to take account of each other and to be in common. Therefore, we also arranged a hearing in Stortinget to facilitate Norwegian policies for both the wild and farming industries. In the hearing, Mr Lisbeth Berg-Hansen and Minister for the Environment, Mr Bård Vegar Solhjell, Mr Lakseelver were represented, Mr Jager and Mr Fiskers were represented, the Norwegian Environmental Protection Association was there, and Mr Marine Harvest AS, Mr Osland Havbruk AS, Mr Cermaq ASA, the Land Association of Fisheries and the Marine Research Institute, Mr Sintef, the Veterinary Institute and the Norwegian Institute for Natural Research were all in the audience. It was a useful hearing that the committee got a lot out of. The main cause of the hearing was to highlight different problem options from the different interests associated with strengthening the management of aquaculture and to ensure both environmental resilience and the potential for future growth. As I said, it was a useful hearing, which was important for our treatment of this matter. The Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs is not the only ones who respond to the situation; the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coastal Department also believes that the situation was far from ideal. But it may seem that the results of the National Audit Office's report did not come as a surprise to the Ministry, because the environmental challenges raised in the National Audit Office's report were the same as the Ministry itself has pointed out both before and after the National Audit Office's findings were presented. The fact that the ministry has undertaken several measures to remedy the situation will not only correct the environmental problems but also make the use of the seas more efficient and limit economic losses for the industry. That's right there. In the reply from the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coastal Department of the Riksrevision, they say that ensuring environmental adaptation of aquaculture, reducing loss and disease, strengthening of fish health, reducing escape, resilient feed, a strengthened tool and a transparent and holistic management of the industry are priorities in the ministry’s work. That's good. Several measures have been taken by the government. They have seen 29 out of 32 measures taken by the government’s strategy for an environmentally and sustainable aquaculture industry. In the wake of the news about seafood coming very soon, there is a long-term discussion of the principle of zoning. The Committee believes it is positive that the Ministry is committed to nationally and internationally to wild marine resources. As rapporteur, I feel that the Committee and the Ministry share their concerns about the current situation, and that the Ministry has done a great deal and has announced more measures to remedy it. It is therefore in everyone's interest that the Committee calls on the National Audit Office to follow up the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs' work on improving the management of marine fisheries in its future audits to examine whether the changes that have been reflected have been both implemented and have had the effect that the Ministry wants and that the Stortinget also wants them to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e593	The marine industry has been growing significantly over several years and today contributes to high value creation, many jobs and high export incomes for our country. One of the main objectives of aquaculture policy is to ensure an environmental and sustainable aquaculture industry, while facilitating further growth and development in industry. The overall vision of fisheries policy is that the values of the sea represent the future of Norway, while on several occasions the Storting has stated that environmental considerations should be a fundamental premise for further development and growth. ‘The aquaculture industry has had significant environmental challenges through, inter alia, high escape rates, salmon and extensive losses due to disease.’ This is how National Auditor Jørgen Kosmo expressed himself when the report we are discussing today was handed over to Stortinget last year. He also said that these and other environmental challenges are of a scale that requires strengthening the management of aquaculture in order to ensure environmental sustainability and the potential for future growth in industry. After reviewing the report, it is not difficult to agree to this. A unanimous committee welcomes the fact that environmental considerations have been given increasing importance in decisions on production growth taken in cooperation between the Ministry of Fisheries and the Ministry of the Environment. At the same time, a unanimous committee takes a very serious view of some of the findings of the National Audit Office’s inquiry into the management of marine life. I refer in this connection to the large loss of fish due to disease, as well as the high incidences of salmontus. The disease situation has not improved since the year 2000 and the large losses have resulted in significant economic losses for the industry and inefficient use of sea areas. According to the study, the incidence of salmonids is still at an excessive level along large sections of our coast. This leads primarily to a reduction in fish welfare, but for wild fish and sea trout survival is also reduced. Another problem is that the increasing proportion of escaped farmed fish among wild fish can both lead to the spread of disease and will change the genetic material of the wild species over time. Unfortunately, the objective of reducing impacts threatening the genetic diversity of salmon to a non-harmful level by 2010 has not been achieved. This is serious. The marine industry also contributes to the release of large amounts of nutrient salts, organic matter and chemicals. The impact of total emissions is not clear today, but it is beyond doubt that chemicals used in salmon dissipation treatment cause damage to nature. Another challenge for the industry is the use of large quantities of wild fish for feeding. The pressure on some species has been great, and it is therefore very important that we ensure that all the wild resources contained in fish feed are from sustainable fishing. The Riksrevision study concludes that the aim of Stortingen for the industry to have an environmentally friendly growth is unfortunately not achieved in many places. The study also points out that current use of instruments is not adapted to the environmental challenges. The need for more efficient and predictable management of the aquaculture industry to ensure overall and more consistent regulation and treatment of installations is clearly present. It is positive that most of the government’s strategy for an environmentally sustainable aquaculture industry has been implemented, but this is obviously not enough. The Progress Party therefore welcomes the fact that a unanimous committee concludes that further action needs to be considered if the effects of the measures already in place are not soon to be seen more clearly. It is also essential that we put in place the necessary indicators which make it measurable whether the figures for loss, disease, salmonids and the impact of escaped farmed fish are low enough. A unanimous committee considers that the ministry must give priority to the establishment of quality standards, indicators and limit values as soon as possible. It is also positive that the industry has set up its own catch fund, so that you can be paid if you catch escaped farmed fish in the rivers. Rumid farmed fish in rivers are environmental pollution, and the polluter pays principle must also apply here. It is therefore important to intensify work on developing a system that can trace the fish to the site from which it has been evacuated. The overall assessment by the national audit of the environmental challenges of the aquaculture industry is serious and requires follow-up. In the Committee’s hearing on 3 December 2012, we received many constructive and useful insights into how to solve today’s challenges to industry. The Progress Party therefore looks forward to the consideration of the announced paper on the maritime food industry. It's during the treatment of this we're going to outsource the course for the future aquaculture industry in Norway. When we see the broad consensus that has been in this matter in the control committee, the Progress Party is optimistic. The Progress Party hopes that we can find broadly anchored solutions that will ensure further development and growth for this important industry for Norway, within an environmental and sustainable framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e628	First, the National Audit Office’s survey of the management of the aquaculture sector shows a young industry that has developed rapidly. Marine farming, the whitefish and pelagic sector, what we like to mention today with the common name ‘seafood industry’, has become our second most important export industry and is referred to as one of the three national knowledge clusters, alongside energy and maritime industry. So we're talking about one of the fields where in Norway we've taken the natural benefits we have, and developed them to be among the leading environments in the world. The National Audit Office’s report highlights a number of challenges both for industry and for others affected by it. It is therefore reassuring that the challenges pointed out by the National Audit Office are also addressed in the administration and in the industry itself. The industry on its side can, since the audit took place, show great improvements for many of the challenges. The management is challenged in the brief report that good governance requires clear objectives, which in turn requires clear targets. It is not satisfactory that you cannot point this out, but it is certainly reassuring that you can point to the work with a message to get this done. You have to be able to measure where you're headed towards the goal, it seems to be the message of the National Audit Office. Right doesn't disagree with that. In the maritime food notification that is expected to come on Friday, we must expect to establish a regime with clear sustainability indicators for both aquaculture and wild fish. This will be absolutely necessary to ensure an administration that ensures sustainability and legal certainty for professionals in and around the industry. One of the problems described in the audit report is the risk of transmission of pathogenic viruses from farmed fish to wild fish. Yesterday we received a report from the Food Safety Authority, which showed that this type of virus was found on wild fish. First of all, this is pleasant, but the important thing here is that in this field, too, we now have a monitoring programme as a preventive protection for the wild species. This shows that you take the responsibility you need. In short, the National Audit Office is drawing up some serious challenges. Time shows that both industry and administration have addressed the same challenges. A unanimous committee also says that this works well. In conclusion, I would like to comment on a recurring problem that we have experienced, and it is very much about good administration. It has been shown that the red-green majority index occasionally splits by the need to fence around their own symbolic objects. The last and perhaps most extreme example is the Councils of State Giske and Solhjell's cock fight with the company Nordic Mining as a victim. Clearly, good governance was set aside here to promote one's own ego and symbolism. A major part of the work of the management of aquaculture will in the future be the development of sustainability indicators for marine areas. Clear political governance will be required here. For the Environment Minister, we in the Right are not further optimistic, especially after we saw the SV's latest draft programme on aquaculture, where we went back on about all the positive reviews that we have had in the past. We also believe that we can experience more pressured government councils on symbolic hunting in the future. We just want to hope that this doesn't go beyond the responsibility of the state councils to ensure good governance. To that, these industries are too important.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e647	There are three areas I have requested that the National Audit Office should address. One was how the oil tax regime that we have in Norway turns out. The second was JSF, i.e., fighter aircraft. The third has been farming. That is why I am now very pleased that the Riksrevision has just done a job when this is the case, because it has been our problem setting that I have addressed since I entered the Stortinget in 1997. Escape has been a big problem all the way. It was said that it would be better next year – it has been said one year after year – but the latest in 2012 the NRK claimed that it also increased then, despite guarantees from the industry that it would decrease. So we obviously haven't had a good enough regime, and we know the consequences of, among other things. So escape, which leads to genetic contamination, and it's an environmental problem. As I said, environmental problems must in principle be solved by paying the EU citizen. We're not there yet. Let's also look at other countries, like other solutions. The Danish are now in rapid development when it comes to building closed farms on land. Many people can question it too, but the reason why they do it is that they should get a product that they can call environmentally friendly, and in that way sell food that is 100 pst. environmentally friendly. It's a development that I also see coming in Norway, but then the Danish already have a competitive advantage, even though it's on a small scale. I am very pleased that we now have a cooperation between the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs. That's what I think is absolutely necessary. There has been a big conflict between the two, but now we see the outline of a good cooperation, which leads to one, among other things. shall grant green concessions. It seems to me to be a step forward, from my point of view. Let's see how one can develop it further. As I understand it, and as many people have been involved in it, the Council of State has already given us the opportunity to show us what offensive grip the government is now doing with regard to the issues raised by the Riksrevision. Now a better aquaculture law and a seafood notification should be provided – probably already this week. At least then I have expectations that one of the most likely has grasped some of the things that the Riksrevision addresses. Finally, I would like to say that I am quite impressed with the clarity of the Committee on this matter. I'm very happy with that. I'm sure the case spokesperson will have to take some of the credit. At the heart of the Committee's comments, it is expected that the work on mitigation will be followed up by the National Audit Office, that innovation will be strengthened, that is the requirement of a single committee, and that priority will be given to paying for farming fish in rivers. This means that a system of tracking is created, so that you can find the right facility, as the committee points out. Finally, the Committee points out that it is important for a worker to find a vaccine against lus and a way to sterilise the salmon. This is very offensive, I thought, which has been here on the Storting for 15 years. It shows that after so many years there is a rise that takes much more seriously the environmental aspect of this industry. I'm very happy with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e666	Many people use the word ‘environment’ from this pulpit. I want to talk mainly about biology. It's an overall committee. That's why I choose not to comment on the setting that much, but I want to talk about biology. The case concerns the management of aquaculture, the use of the sea. It gives me as a farmer association to agriculture, use of land. Seas and soils can be used in different ways. Here we are talking about the use of the sea where the nourishment of the fish, which lives in the sea, is fed by humans – to the animals called fish. In agriculture, the parallel to that kind of livestock farming is chicken production, where we feed all the food to the chicken, and the chicken stays indoors in buildings. The fish has no building. The fish is in the sea. So the fish must be fed into the sea, with the challenges it brings. We're talking about an industry that's very big, and it's growing very fast. The councils can correct me, but as far as I know, we are talking here about an industry that in volume is more than four times the total Norwegian meat production of our domestic animals. It was 1 000 million tonnes in 2010. It is now well over 1,200 million tonnes. For each tonne produced from fish, it is estimated to have to be three times as much feed. We're talking here about an animal that's a cold-blooded animal, unlike the animals that live on land, that's hot-blooded. Thus, fish have a much higher energy efficiency than a warm-blooded animal. Breeding fish are therefore an efficient energy resource. The food that the fish eats is basically so that that food can be eaten by man. Some domestic animals have been given the gift that they can process food that man cannot eat, and thus they have a advantage, but fish and monogamous domestic animals are basically the same. They eat human food of different quality. The fish is anchored in feed from fisheries and from agriculture. The feed of the aquaculture fish is imported. We're talking here about huge quantities of imported feed in an efficient biological production. But it's imports, and it's an import based on one having a market, and one can pay what the market requires for that fish. So the feather of the fish is in the sea. That means that what the fish doesn't eat from food, or what comes out after the fish have eaten, comes out into the sea. We're talking about large, large quantities. We're talking about a sea and a sea that has to be a recipient -- to use a tradesmanship -- that can take on the enormous amounts of nutrition that we're talking about here. It is therefore essential that the recipient be able to accept these enormous quantities without distorting the balance of nature. Some places have a much better assumption for that than others. That's why we have the land-use discussion about where the aquaculture industry can best be located. Having spent time in the sea or in the sea is, of course, giving us some opportunities, and that gives us some problems. I was in a feed game, I was into what comes out of the fish, like any other living creature. We can also draw sickness and lice. Luz is something that's completely natural in the sea, and that's not something that's special for this species of fish. So there's something moving in a way that humans can little control. The escape of fish, which, according to my information, is now close to 25 pst. in the maritime phase, is a major challenge for those who suffer a significant economic loss, and it results in a genetic impact on the wild species and its implications. But having mermaids in the sea is a risk. It's something that everyone has to accept when you've gone into it. That's the reality -- the reality that we're constantly trying to do better. We write in our setting for environmentally friendly growth. That's a great word. No one can disagree with it, but it's a word that's hard to hold hands with. It's hard to get a proper grip on it. What is environmentally friendly growth? The concept therefore needs clarification. What one well means by that is that it should be ecologically sustainable, that is, that we go to the source of ecology, which is about the interaction of nature. The interaction in nature, how the aquaculture industry interacts in nature, is going to be crucial given that it is being done in a good way, so that the industry has legitimacy both in the population, in consumers and throughout society, and that it is being improved. It's a basic quality criterion that I'm going to claim that all parties are going to put more emphasis on in the future. The interaction in nature was central in the 1970s. Today it does not have the same vigilance, because today it is talking about the environment with terms that become less operational than what is at the heart of the matter. It is referred to in the setting of supervision and that it must have a more preventative effect. I would like the Council of State to elaborate on this a little bit, how one sees that supervision is going to happen in the future, so that one can take care of what I have now said about interaction in nature, while those who are breeders can have the confidence that what they do to the best of their ability to improve is viewed positively, and that one can also receive continuous advice from the supervision of how one can behave to improve, so that supervision does not just come as those who criticize small and large, and as something that industry in many cases in other industries sees as a problem. Instead of being a problem, a view should be taken of supervision as an interaction partner and a collaborative partner in order to improve the industry, while at the same time a seafarer should point out errors and not good behaviour. We have an industry that is facing the same thing as all the other industries, that it has to change. We're talking about framework conditions. As in fiscal policy, we are facing what, in my opinion, is called predictable, changing framework conditions. Predictable, modified framework conditions are necessary so that the industry can relate to what is coming. It is also necessary that we have equivalent conditions of competition. I would like to stress the latter: equivalent conditions of competition. If this industry is not as political as the agricultural industry – for it is important – it is political. It's political so it holds. The rules applicable to this industry in the future will be crucial for the future of the industry. The existence of equivalent conditions of competition between small and large companies, between companies in the north and in the south, is central. What is developing today, with owner concentration in the industry, is, in my opinion, a problem. I want the Council of State to elaborate on it: to what extent does she view ownership concentration in the aquaculture sector as a problem – or is that right? In this case, what can we do to ensure that there is more active competition in this sector, as in other sectors, by having more players with equivalent opportunities to develop? I'll end by saying that this is an important industry where knowledge of the biological context is fundamental. I encourage the Council of State and everyone to tell us about the biological context, the advantages and the demanding challenges that the industry has. The industry can thus stand on a safer platform in society, by the fact that there are more people who understand the actual situation of the industry’s practitioners and the many who are connected to the industry are in both the farmed fish and the industries related to the wild fish, are in – that we get it out, and that one is aware of it all.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e696	The marine industry has evolved into one of the most important areas of value creation, export income and employment in Norwegian business. Between 2000 and 2010, the total production of farmed fish and shellfish in Norway was more than doubled, from about one to two. 500000 tonnes to over 1 million tonnes per year. The sales value of aquaculture production has passed 30 billion. kr per year. We have reason to be proud of an industry that puts Norway on the world map, with very high-quality seafood products. As a representative of one of the largest aquaculture communities in Norway, I would also like to stress the importance of the aquaculture industry for value creation and employment in rural areas. Operation of supermarkets and processing of raw materials from the aquaculture industry create thousands of jobs in Norwegian district municipalities. As seen, this industry greatly contributes to maintaining a scattered settlement along our coast. At a time when other primary industries are under pressure, with a decrease in the number of employed and poor profitability, the importance of the aquaculture industry is increasing to ensure that it will continue to shine from the windows of small rural communities along the Norwegian coast. However, it is a fact that the aquaculture industry has gradually grown to a size and total production volume causing significant growth pain. With regard to both the escape of farmed fish, disease and parasites in farms and the release of organic material and chemicals, the industry faces significant challenges. In such a situation, it is all the more important that the industry itself and the authorities responsible for the management of aquaculture work together to ensure sustainable development for Norwegian aquaculture. No one, and at least the industry itself, has benefited from a development that endangers coastal ecosystems, and which in the long run harms the good reputation of Norwegian seafood in the world. The National Audit Office has carried out a larger survey to find answers as to whether the management of aquaculture is doing its job to ensure sustainable development in the aquaculture industry. One of the key questions underpinning the study was the extent to which the use of the instruments of the authorities has been implemented and a means of ensuring that the national sustainable aquaculture targets are met. Unfortunately, the report of the National Audit Office shows that the overall objective of sustainable growth and the development of the aquaculture industry, which has been underpinned by an overall increase, cannot be said to have been achieved by the current administrative regime. The conclusions of the Riksrevision are quite unambiguous at this point, and I quote from page 8 of the Committee's position: ‘The Riks revision is of the opinion that the environmental challenges in the aquaculture industry have become so extensive that the industry cannot be said to have had sufficient environmentally adapted growth, as the Storting has foreseen. The environmental challenges in industry are, according to the National Audit Office, an extent that will require significant changes in the management of aquaculture and the way in which the aquaculture industry is regulated.» More clearly, it can't be said! The National Audit Board bases its conclusion on a number of weaknesses and unfortunate aspects of Norwegian aquaculture management. I will briefly mention some of the most important. In St.meld. No 19 for 2004–2005, on marine economic development, it was suggested that an overall strategy for making the use of available land by the aquaculture industry more effective. However, the granting of new and amended authorisations for the breeding of salmonids has taken place without the existence of an overall strategy for making use of the area more effective. In the application process of authorisations for farming, evaluations are mainly carried out on conditions related to the individual site and not on the overall burden of several farms in a larger area. The lack of such an overall strategy is becoming all the more serious given that it is precisely in areas with many farms that the problems of salmon, diseases and escaped farmed salmon are greatest. The National Audit Office further points out that the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coastal Ministry of Fisheries has developed little indicators which may say something about whether the management achieves the objectives of a sustainable and environmentally adapted aquaculture industry. This applies, for example: maximum levels of loss, disease, salmonids and genetic incorporation of escaped farmed fish. It must also be mentioned that the studies used to identify the impact of water quality and bottom conditions in farms are not adapted to the size of today’s facilities. This leads to a serious lack of knowledge about the regional impact of different types of emissions from the breeding industry. As a result, there is a risk that measurements of the environmental status of farms will simply be misleading. A third aspect that is also serious is the fact that the Riksrevision has identified major regional differences in the way in which supervision of the industry is carried out. This applies, inter alia, to: the extent to which the Food and Fisheries Directorate applies sanctions and enforcement measures in relation to supervision. Here the numbers vary between 2 and 24 pst. in the regions of the Fisheries Directorate and between 9 and 17 pst. in the regions of the Food Authority. What these numbers show is both alarming and alarming. In reality, there is no similarity between the law for operators in the Norwegian aquaculture industry — it is actually the location of the facilities that determines the likelihood of coercive action being taken. At the same time as the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee has been working on the situation of the Storting in this matter, the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs has drawn up a proposal for a regulation on the award of green salmon concessions. Out of a total of 45 rights, 35 shall be granted in closed bidding rounds requiring the redemption of old concessions. In this bidding round, there is a requirement that the applicant undertakes to implement solutions that reduce environmental problems compared to those in commercial use today. When it became known that the Ministry would announce the award of so-called green salmon concessions, the Christian People's Party called for clear and specific criteria on which environmental measures would be required before an applicant could be granted a green concession. It would be natural for the regulation to mention concrete measures to reduce the number of escaped fish and to reduce disease and salmonids in the plant. One measure in question may be the implementation of closed plants in the first part of the production line for farmed fish. A month ago, a mini-seminar was held at Stortinget where various economic operators presented new and innovative solutions for closed farms. This is mainly plant for sebumfish and smolt. They will provide almost total protection against disease infection and salmonidosis and will minimise the risk of escape. One of the economic operators at the seminar could indicate that they had carried out a full-scale test of their concept over several months, without any recorded dead fish in the facility. What we heard and saw during the seminar showed that closed farms have reached a technological maturity level that makes it fully possible to implement the solutions in the first part of the production process. The clear signal from those who presented their solutions was that needed political action is now needed to ensure that the new technology becomes commercially profitable for those who have taken the work and the costs of developing it – or to say so in a slightly different way: where the industry tends to weigh disadvantages over benefits and is struggling for new investment, the ministry and the administration must make demands that make new technology a part of the solution. In this respect, it should also be expected that the aquaculture industry will take greater account of the high performance potential of closed installations. Loss factors such as diseases, salmonids and escape will be significantly reduced in such installations, with the positive economic repercussions that it will produce. It was therefore disappointing to record just a lack of concrete demands for action when the Ministry sent out the green salmon concession award regulation at the hearing on 4 March this year. For the closed concession round and the permits in Troms and Finnmark, only two general requirements were imposed: either that the new concessions would reduce the risk of the impact of wild salmonids as a result of escape or that there would be no more than 0,25 female lice per fish in the plant. With regard to the last requirement, this is not even a status quo in the fight against salmonids. As of today, the requirement is 0,5 female per fish in farms. If such a concession is withdrawn and replaced by two new ones where the requirement is 0.25 lux per fish, one is exactly the same distance. The only thing that has happened then is spreading the risk of infection in two locations instead of one. It is regrettable that the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coast abused the chance they had to impose specific requirements on more environmentally efficient and sustainable aquaculture in the context of the so-called green salmon concessions. In view of the sharp criticism of the Riksrevision's report, and the clear leadership of the Stortinge on sustainable development in the industry, the department's lack of action becomes almost incomprehensible. Like the other parties, the Christian People's Party will stress that we are looking very seriously at some of the findings of the National Audit Office's survey of marine management. However, we choose to take a positive view that the department seems to take seriously the need for a new spatial structure. The Christian People's Party is looking forward to a thorough discussion of this issue when the announced news of maritime nutrition is presented. It is also positive that the Ministry recognises the issues raised by the Riksrevision and that 29 out of 32 of those measures have been initiated or implemented in the Government's strategy for an environmentally sustainable aquaculture industry. In addition to greater clarity in the requirements for sustainable development measures, the Christian People’s Party will point in particular to the need for clear indicators to measure the level of disease, salmonids and the impact of escaped farmed fish. Adequate level of knowledge in these areas is crucial to the deployment of effective and targeted measures when the limit values are exceeded. Finally, we will stress the need for a uniform system of supervision that eliminates regional differences in the use of sanctions and enforcement measures against industry. The Christian People's Party is aware that proposals for amendments to the Aquaculture Act to ensure equal treatment and efficiency in management have been consulted. It's positive. We believe, however, that that is not enough. The Ministry needs to provide several measures to ensure equal treatment of industry actors regardless of location.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e746	Much wise has already been said in this debate, so I shall be brief. I am pleased that a Joint Committee recognises farming as an important industry for Norway. However, in order for it to be also forward-looking, as a renewable industry should be, it must be sustainable from an ecological and long-term perspective. Famous farmed salmon is a threat to wild salmon strains. In addition, fish farming may pose challenges for wild fish in the form of parasites, diseases and lice, which many have encountered. The left will impose stringent requirements on the farming industry to minimise lice, escape and commercial leakage to natural ecosystems. The left will make the marine food industry more competitive and versatile through innovation, product development and the commitment to export promotion. Breeding continues to have high growth potential, but further growth in industry is a prerequisite for sustainable growth. The left will therefore impose stringent environmental requirements for the award and localisation of new farming concessions. There is a need for restructuring the Norwegian farming industry, where the environment and profitability will lead to fish farming. The left will simplify the concession legislation so that the relocalisation and rotation of rams can take place much faster than today. I would therefore recommend that the Minister for Fisheries assess some new measures. There is a need to simplify legislation in the maritime food sector through the introduction of the nesting layer model and further develop the concession law for the aquaculture industry in a way that is more conducive to sustainable growth in the industry, while taking into account fishing welfare, escape restrictions and the environment. I also believe that the farming industry must start to pay for the environmental disadvantage caused by the business and that the municipalities that have farming facilities must be left with something more compensation than they are doing today. The Left believes that the idea of green concessions is a good measure by the Minister for Fisheries, and it will be exciting to follow the results. We in the Left believe that green concessions are a concept that should be developed further, and that legislation should gradually be tightened in order to ensure the ever-growing technological development of the industry. For example, it might be considered to have existing breeders redeem their current concessions against a green concession, while at the same time allowing them to increase their permitted biomass. The breeding industry is a well-organised industry with which good cooperation should be possible. This week, figures showed a significant decrease in CO2 emissions from industry from 1990. This is largely because the country entered into dialogue with industry and put in place an agreement to reduce emissions, with commitments both from the country and from industry. Such a model can be usefully used in the breeding industry to meet the challenges facing it. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister for Fisheries to set up an independent commission to review the escape incidents in order to prevent similar incidents. We have such a model in marine accidents. There's a need to figure out how escape is happening and what we can learn, so it doesn't happen again.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e768	The first successful release of salmon related to breeding occurred in 1971. Since then, the farming industry — the aquaculture industry — has had a formidable development. It's an industry that has been, in every way, a success story. Norway is currently exporting around 35 billion salmon. kr. Today the salmon price is around 40 kroner per kilogram, but varies considerably. In other words, farming is very important for Norway. If we just look at the fisheries and the resources provided by the sea – along with the farming industry – we see that Norway exports 32 million meals of food every day. In other words, Norway is an export nation linked to food. It is important to see the whole production of food in Norway as a whole, and to see the importance of this. I would like to congratulate the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs on the comments they have on this matter and on the way in which the report of the National Audit Office has been dealt with. But when the Riksrevision enters and looks at this matter and this industry, it is important to take into account that it is the development and not necessarily the political tool that will apply in such a case. I think we have managed to achieve a balanced presentation here. There are a few areas that I would like to get into, and which I do not think have been well enough taken care of. Let's look at the escape situation, which many people have been involved in. In 1999, a NOU was developed with the title NOW 1999:9 For salmon for all can no one do? This was the setup of the Rieber-Mohn Committee. There you just took the influences related to the wild axis and how you could do something here. This, I think, has been taken very little into account in this report, as well, for example.What is the effect? What measures can be taken and in what way? It is quite obvious that this industry has a challenge of escape from the mercenaries. But if we look at the total amount of fish that you raise, the escape situation is significantly better today than it has been before – if you compare with the biomass that is always in the fish melts. What is obviously not yet available is a distinction between salmon concessions and trout concessions. Today, a salmon/dried concession is granted. You can choose the type of farming you want. In areas with high intakes of fallow water, i.e. low salinity, it can be very positive to use trout as farmed fish, because it can thrive and grow in such an environment. It doesn't do salmon. In these environments there will also be a great opportunity to breed trout, because it cannot multiply by the wild species. It may well go up into the rivers and mess it up into the pits where multiplication occurs, but it cannot dilute the salmon genetic material. It's time to review this, just to see if this can be one way to do things. In addition, there is too little research into the concrete impact of the salmon-pull on wild fish in relation to migration from rivers and out into the sea. It is time, among other things, to look at the situation we have today, when our wild fish stocks are record high. If we look at NVG-silda, on our cod and on the mackerel, we see that the stocks are record high. All these are species of fish that are predators – they eat other fish. This also affects what has to do with our wild-tail population. We must not blind ourselves to the fact that it is the farming industry that is at all times responsible for the development of these matters. It's time to start a larger research project, where you just look at all of these devices to see how you affect each other. We're also talking about the importance of innovation to get new products. No one is more interested in this than the industry itself, because the industry is interested in making money. Then it's about trade with other countries. In the early 1990s, I myself wrote a main report on Norwegian exports of rug axles to the EU and to Sweden. We looked at the framework conditions underlying more innovation. At the time, if you smoked the salmon, filleted it – after swallowing it – and prepared it for a market, the customs barriers to get it on the market were so high that it was not profitable to do so. We see that some niche companies have managed to find their way in. It's very positive. We have to make sure that continues at this rate and, not least, even faster than today. I wonder if it was someone from the Christian People's Party who was involved in this with environmentally friendly growth. In this regard, there are several things you can look at, including: lice number. Today we have a limit of 0.5 mature female. If the number of females is reduced, allowing for an increase in biomass in the plants is absolutely an environmentally friendly growth against, for example: has escape statistics in the area that suggest that it can be done. If you have a lice situation that allows you to control both VHS infection and PD infection in the region you live in, you can look at these indicators and say that there may be room for further growth in the MTB related to the plants we have. And then, of course, it's a battle for sea area. I fully support what the left was about when it was about the municipality's share. The further growth of this industry also requires support for these establishments in the community. As far as the green concession scheme is concerned, it costs 10 million. SEK in South Norway. But 4 million of these dollars, which are to be allocated locally, are not allocated to the municipality – no, they are allocated to the county. It is – with respect to reporting – to me a strange system. It's the locality municipality that gets the challenges. The county council does not have the challenges of granting a breeding concession. Then you have to make sure that those who have the disadvantages or the challenges are also the ones who get compensated for a little of this. This proposal was otherwise voted down as the matter was pending before Christmas. The Progress Party promoted this proposal. I think the Left also supported it in the Chamber. This is one of the ways we can get further growth. I'm really looking forward to the seafood message coming. I don't think it'll be here on Friday. I suspect that the Council of State will either be moved or will be moved earlier. When I see the program – which came today – from the National Association of Fisheries and Aquaculture, which the next two days will have its conference in Ålesund, where both myself and the Council of State, the Minister of Maritime Food, will attend on the first day, and when I see that the Prime Minister has notified his arrival on day number. two, I get a suspicion that the maritime food message has already been submitted, and that we get an article about it. I really hope that happens. This is at least a message there has been a lot of talk about. It's almost like you don't believe it until you see it – until it actually lies there. There are a lot of things where you've just shown that this is what we're going to get back to in the maritime food message, this we can't say anything about now, it's coming in the maritime food message. Luckily, the seafood message is coming now. It is linked to enormous expectations, for it must certainly solve all problems. It's going to be exciting to see if it actually does, because there are big challenges ahead of us. The escape situation has been one thing, limit another. Where should the PD infection limit go? Is it going to Hustadvika, or is it going to be moved? Should we change the limit? What do we do? In the case of the land regulation and the land limitations relating, inter alia, to: Hardangerfjord, should you have the boundary, the zone division, at the very end of the spring, or should you share what you're doing today? How much volume should be allowed? What about the loop situation? Is it still going to be 0.5 female per fish? Here's a lot of challenges. Many have referred to these green concessions. The only thing I've ever seen, at least from the industry, about which many organizations are united, is that you don't understand very much of what's actually there. I have also challenged the Council of State in this room in Stortinget's Question Time. There are some strange things about this concession, and the Council of State managed at least not to inform or illuminate this matter any better in that season. We're going to have a system in the north where you're going to have a claim of less than 0.25 bucks per fish if you give in ordinary concession, and then you're going to get two green concessions back. You no longer require less than 0.5 hunlus per fish, but 0.25 lus per fish. Then you can have two concessions. So if you don't comply, but you break this requirement, then the following year, you can meet the demand to return these two concessions. Then you're going to get back what you originally had. There's going to be an interesting conspiracy of legislation when you're going to start enforcing it. Who will pay for these investments? How are control measures to be implemented? How should this be done in practice? A little further south, we're going to start assigning these ten other concessions, which are not redemption concessions. There shall be a requirement of less than 0,1 female per fish. It's going to be interesting to see how you're going to follow this up because here you're moving into a hive. We'll see about that. I want the Council of State to be happy with the award of these concessions, and then we'll see what the future holds. Here there are also a number of other things that it might be interesting to go into, but I'm just going to take one more area, and that's the question of closed facilities. The Industry Committee has just held a seminar on closed installations. There's a lot of exciting happening in this area. There's a lot of different ways to do it -- everything from tight vessels that need to be attached to the bottom, to tarpaulins. But what's common denominator is that none of these are currently ready to be used commercially in the ordinary salmon production. Several of them are now initiating trials, and in the first instance it is linked to smolt and cephalopods. Today, there is an exceptional provision in which you can actually be granted a concession to breed cephalopods and smolts. It's increased from 250 grams to 1,000 grams, i.e. 1 kg. But this is also a production that can be done on land today. Several are planning to start the production of fish up to 1 kg on land. But then some challenges arise, and the Council of State has been sent a written question from the undersigned today. It concerns the limitations of these concessions. Is it to be seen in the context of a food-fish concession, or is it to be free? What restrictions are to be added to each installation? Are they in the plant’s facilities, or is the total quantity to be produced in the country as a whole? We can imagine the following situation: there's one coming up and saying he's just going to produce fish up to 1,000 grams, 1 kg, then he's going to slaughter it. He uses this as a pure fillet, produces it on land, slaughters it and sells it out. These will meet major challenges: Does this come under a food-fish concession or as a seed-fish concession? It is not clear from the prescription that is there, and I have been studying it very carefully as late as today. I look forward to the future of Norwegian farming. The market is out there. There is a great demand for Norwegian salmon. I think it was the representative Lundtägen who was involved in the problem of what is related to feed and the feed situation related to wild fish. Stocks of both eyeball and tobis and some other species of fish are in good standing. It is fully possible to further tax some of these resources. In addition, we can see, among other things: a greater use of the cut-off related to the pelagic sector. When you produce the fillet of mackerel, very much of that silage is returned again just to produce feed for, among other things. the breeding industry. We need to do research on this, so that we can do it even better, make it even more profitable and more sustainable. It is important that we do these things in consultation with the industry and do not care about the industry. It's important that we come forward. This is an industry for growth. This is an industry that is going to evolve further. The world needs food, and we have enormous opportunities in the farming sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e812	Over the past four decades, the aquaculture industry has had a formidable development. The industry has grown from being a reindustry to becoming one of our most important industries contributing to activity, employment and value creation. It has several of the posts today underlined. In 2010, the value creation was estimated at about 27 billion. kr, and the industry contributed to 21 000 jobs – both these figures including ring-effects. In 2012, the aquaculture industry exported salmon to almost all corners of the world for striking 31.5 billion. kr. And I can confirm that the representative Lundtigen's comparison with the country food production – it's between three and a half and four times the production of Norwegian meat production. To ensure that future generations can also live and benefit from the natural benefits of the sea, aquaculture must have the perspective of eternity. The Government’s objective is therefore to facilitate growth within environmentally sustainable frameworks. The National Audit Office has pointed out that aquaculture is facing environmental challenges, including: escape and salmonitus may have a negative effect on the environment. All food production places impressions in nature, including aquaculture. The environmental challenges raised by the National Audit Office report, which is also highlighted by the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, coincide with those addressed by the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs. It shows that we're on the right track. An important starting point for the National Audit Office’s study has been the Government’s Strategy for an Environmentally Sustainable Marine Industry. The strategy sets overall objectives and leads for the development of a forward-looking and environmentally adapted aquaculture industry. A number of the issues highlighted in the National Audit Office’s report will be addressed in the upcoming bigmouth report, which has been discussed by several, and which I am pleased to see them waiting for, which has the title of Norway — the world’s leading maritime nation. In the message, we would like, among other things: address issues of land use by the aquaculture industry and first-generation indicators, i.e. measurement methods, and environmental impact limits. In this context, we have concentrated on the most acute environmental challenges, which are escape and lice. The representative of Lundtigen was also in charge and was concerned about it. I'm glad. That is clearly necessary. There is no doubt that the industry obviously expects the State supervisory offices to act in a coordinated, consistent and consistent manner. We have also placed great emphasis on this when we have decided to improve the coordination of supervision, for example. The Fisheries Directorate, the Food Authority and the Clif/Members are responsible for the aquaculture industry. Supervision is an important part of the follow-up to supervision, but also to advice, even if it is the main job of supervision. Like the National Audit Office and the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, I would also like to stress that it is important to put in place first-generation environmental impact measurement methods. The Institute for Marine Research, the Veterinary Institute and the Norwegian Institute for Water Research, NIVA, have submitted proposals for indicators and limit values. We have also received proposals from the Food and Fisheries Directorate for action if the limit values are exceeded. The Committee stresses that a lot of good research is being carried out in the field of aquaculture, but at the same time says that it is important to look at instruments that can strengthen the further development of innovation and research. This applies, for example: further development of methods for sterilisation of farmed fish and research on the vaccine against salmonids. Not surprisingly, I fully agree with the Committee's assessment. Much important and good research is done, and the government aims to strengthen publicly funded marine research. I can also stress that problems about sterile fish and vaccine against salmonids are a priority. The use of sterile farmed fish can help to avoid genetic impact on wild salmon strains. But there is a need for more knowledge. For example, the Institute for the Exploration of the Sea and Aqua Gen will lead a research project that will provide more knowledge of the adaptation of sterile salmon to commercial production. Progress is also being made in the field of salmon vaccine research. Researchers are now looking at how they can develop a vaccine that can weaken the immune system of salmonillus, thus taking the break of the lusa from the inside. This work is challenging, and there is still a good deal of work to be done. But if we were to be able to crack this code, of course, it could be very important. And we can't go there. In particular, I would like to stress that the development of new technologies and new forms of operation will be important. Several have been in the so-called green concessions. As it is written, it was decided to grant 45 new salmon concessions. The requirements related to salmon and escape protection will be stricter for them than those imposed on commercial farming today. The aim is to stimulate technological development and the commercial application of new solutions. I believe that there is a positive drive for development in the industry that can help reduce the environmental impact of farming. The representative, Nesvik, said that I can't explain how this is actually going to happen. I was wondering whether it was because of what the English language calls ‘a manifest misunderstanding’ – I’m not going to say how obvious it was – but at least it’s not the way I see the representative Nesvik’s description of lice and geography. The representative Nesvik said that there is a requirement of 0.25 lice per salmon in the north and 0.1 lice in the south. He shakes his head, so then probably the obvious misunderstanding must lie with me. In any case, there are ten concessions which must have extra stringent environmental requirements. Requirements corresponding to 0,1 lus have been set. They can be located anywhere in the country – there are no geographical ties on them. In the case of the remaining 35, it is correct that there are requirements corresponding to 0,25 lux. It's about the whole country. In my mind, it is obvious that it will be easier to achieve the goals where there is no lice, as the representative Nesvik also describes, in relation to the north. Over the years, we have known that where there are no major environmental challenges, we have followed the technical advice to allow normal growth, again in the north. There, of course, we follow the advice of the trade unions. So the recurring problem of a possible return if you don't meet what you have to do. One of the criticisms I've heard most about in previous rounds is that you haven't made any demands, that you don't do what you're told to do. In the previous ordinary allocation round, processing was required. Now we see that processing plants are shut down and the concessions are sold. We have no chance of withdrawing the concessions even if we wanted to. Some have described previous rounds as Norwegian championships in application letters without the possibility that we can bring about what the applicants themselves have written. That's exactly what we're doing right now. I feel that it has been a bit of an appeal against previous rounds that we make demands that we do not follow up. Here we intend to follow up the requirements we set. I have said in this Chamber that this instrument is serious, and it is at the forefront of action. Of course, you should have the opportunity to deliver on the points that you have said you should deliver on. One should not forget that it is the application that is the starting point for what might be measured. If you don't like to keep what you have said, I don't think it's unreasonable that at least you get a message about it and fix it. If, after repeated rounds, you don't do it, then it'll be bloody unfair for those who didn't reach – who might actually have better solutions. When I discuss this with the industry, I feel that there is a great deal of understanding that you have this possibility in the back. It is also important that authorities have effective tools to monitor and control the aquaculture industry and have adequate preventive responses. That's a little bit of the background for us to have the opportunity to withdraw the concession when you don't do what you're told to do. In September last year, the Ministry consulted on a draft amendment to the Aquaculture Act, and we aim to promote a legislative proposal for the Stortinget also with the very first. Here we take, among other things: with a view to proposing new rules to facilitate better supervision and control of the industry. I want to strengthen the environmental profile of the Aquaculture Act, including: by proposing permission to impose the labelling or use of sterile farmed fish. Furthermore, there is also a proposal for a joint economic responsibility for the aquaculture industry for the eradication of emanated farmed fish and for a levy for environmental monitoring under the public authority. In a 2011 proposal for a representative, the Right addressed a review of the rules on penalties in the Aquaculture Act. As I have previously announced, we also propose new sanctions rules. I believe that the amendments help to make the rules of the law on penalties clearer and more predictable, and that the legal certainty of the industry is ensured in a good and reassuring way. At the same time, I would like to propose, in part, stricter penalties, and I am clear that breaking the law should not pay off. Let me conclude by saying that the National Audit Office's report, and the job of following it up, has been a teaching experience for the department and the underlying agencies. A number of the issues raised by the National Audit Office are challenges that we have been working on over time. This work is taking place on a broad front. Several measures have already been taken, and the follow-up to the report and the sustainability strategy will also be a priority task in the future. Few other industries have the same potential and potential for developing coastal communities in Norway as the aquaculture industry. The industry must grow, and it must become even more important in the future. But again, the assumption is that growth is environmentally sustainable. I have great faith that the measures we have taken will produce fruits. I think we've come a long way to be the world's leading seamate. Since I still have time left – it's an unusual feeling to stand here and have time left over – I will use it to comment on a few more of the things that have been taken up. The representative of Lundtigen was concerned with egg concentrations in aquaculture. Let me stress that the government wants a diversity in the aquaculture industry with both small, medium-sized and large companies. That's where I think it's bounding to cross-political agreement that they complement each other in a good way, and we see that it's a reasonable way to move on. Then we've had a round connected to any roof, and we've had a discussion with ESA. But even independently of it, I think it's in line with what the government stands for, that you get to share in the community's resources, yes, you also have to contribute back. We have that discussion in the traditional fishing industry and in the discussion about resource interest – I will not deal with that matter now – but I believe it is a reasonable principle to work from the point of view. This is why the government believes that the greater the share of Community resources, the more coastal districts should be relocated. That is why we have announced that we have new proposals for the contributions of those who want to get bigger. I also felt that at least one company that is so far near the roof felt it was tough, but wise demands we made on the industry. These requirements apply to both research, apprentices, activity and processing — things that contribute to the activity and value creation of coastal areas. So the representative asked Tenden a question. Now it looks like she's not here, but she gets to read the answer in the minutes. She called for a commission related to escape. Then I can just say that a new Escape Commission for Aquaculture is being set up. The Chairman and a member are appointed and work is being done to recruit two or three additional Haile members of that Commission. It's already going on. Finally, I would like to comment on the assessments of the representative Nesvik to produce fish of up to 1000 grams in seine fish plants. These are absolutely relevant issues that I have discussed both internally and with industry actors. Here we are in a transitional phase. We have to recognise that technology and development in industry often go a little faster than the regulatory design is going to follow. When I opened up that we could produce set fish up to 1,000 grams on land, it was simply in view of the environmental challenges. But biologically, without going too far into it, there's no doubt that the transition between smolt and a marine fish is perfectly clear. That's when it's melted – dot. Then it must have seawater otherwise it simply dies. Then one could say, where is this transition? I don't know if it's common to think loud about this speaker, but I'm going to allow it, because I'm actually thinking in this context that here we have some kind of hybrid concession model that we have to think about more. But I absolutely agree: when will it become fish and when will it become fish? It's always been before when it's put in the sea. It is clear that the establishment of a land-based food fish, if any, or, for that matter, closed seed-fish production in the sea. Here it is obvious that we need to have a review and discuss it more closely. So let me end by thanking you for the debate and thanking you for the acknowledgment of the words of this pulpit. They I take with me, and I totally share them with the entire administration of Norwegian aquaculture that every day is on to do a good job for this industry. Again: More people have pointed to the news of big business and other things coming from the government. I am very happy to be here today, but I should have liked to have the message first, because then I am absolutely sure that several members of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee will find things where they are satisfied. I guess it's going to be 100 pst. Satisfied, at least in these times, but that there is something that everyone will be satisfied with, I am absolutely sure.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e890	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e893	The National Audit Office's report briefly points to the need for management to describe clear indicators and set clear targets, so that it is possible, first of all, for the actors to manage them by target and, second, for the administration to measure whether or not they have achieved what they want. In the previous concession award, which the Council of State fortunately mentioned in its statement, there was a bit of the problem. You had set up a number of goals, and you made a beauty contest where you had to do good to describe who could meet these. And then you had no penalty options afterwards. In the next concession award, which is the green concession, you make clear demands, you make clear goals, but there is a bit of the problem of setting up an innovation element. The problem is when innovation might fail in the first paragraph, and you get the penalty for losing the concession, who really wants to take the risk of being innovative and creating new technology for the industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e900	I pointed out the previous round and the criticism of the one who came. I do not share that criticism, because I believe that the criteria set at that time were sensible criteria. Then you can later discuss whether you should have had an opportunity to withdraw it when someone does not do what they have said they should do. I have experienced that many in the industry have been concerned about and think that is unreasonable. Passing through nice applications, at worst without content, is bloody unfair for those who might have had good applications, who might not have been formulated so well. That is the background for me to be a little surprised when we are now criticized for having just imposed sanctions. It's not research and innovation concessions we're talking about, we have R & D concessions those that run research and innovation can apply for. They're free and they're limited in time. Here we are talking about commercial production with commercial equipment.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e905	It is the case that the previous concession round has not yet been completed in the legal system, so that it was just idyllic, I cannot agree with the Council of State in. I honestly believe that part of that work was not good enough when you started. So whether this is an innovation concession or not. It is sold from the red-green as if it were a green concession, it is the new wine, it has the innovative features with it, because other requirements are imposed. You have to make a beauty contest with a view to getting concessions, where those who can present ideas about new technology have to be chosen. That story combined with the fact that at the same time you have to be clear on targets, you have to be clear on compliance requirements, and you have to be clear on the penalty part, you actually fail a little bit. I honestly believe that the first story had best suited as a research concession. Now I'm not so sure you're picking up the good cancers, because it's unclear how this regime will be.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e912	To be syllable formal, I would like to stress that I am involved in what is going on in the legal system and will not, of course, comment on it. But when it's said from the representative Bakke-Jensen that in applications you have to present ideas about new technology, it's not enough to present thoughts about new technology. Here one has to present a technology, and one has to prove that the technology – possibly biological things, what I know – will actually achieve the goals we have set. Here, the expert group, the working group, is going to come in and go through and see if it is realistic that what is being presented – where it is not enough with good thoughts, it needs to be documented – actually has a goal. If you don't have a bad application.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e919	The cord shift is over. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e935	Today, we are dealing with Document 3:2, the National Audit Office's control of the administration of state companies for 2011. So this is an annual report that, like Document 1, is an important part of the National Audit Office's tasks. This report covers many companies, but four so-called extended controls have been carried out. I'm essentially concentrating on these. The objective of the company control is to assess whether the management of the State’s interests is consistent with the decisions and assumptions of the Storting. This survey includes 45 whole-time and 32 shared companies. The management of the state ownership of the companies is subject to a total of 10 departments. The report covers a five-year period from 2007 to 2011. The companies are grouped into categories based on the characteristics of the companies and the breakdown is clarified with the owners. Some are companies with business objectives; others are companies with sectorial tasks and objectives. It has been demonstrated in the report that the effectiveness and financial performance of State undertakings should be better monitored. That's one of the main conclusions. In my opinion, follow-up is central to state ownership. There are several departments and businesses that should better deal with this and also have clearer returns targets. The State shall be a demanding owner. After all, the State manages all of this on behalf of taxpayers, and then it is important to be a clear and demanding owner. For several of the companies with return targets, the average return over the period 2007-2011 was significantly lower than the return target. The NSB and Posten, for example, had an average return below five percentage points below the yield target. Let me add that even if companies have special tasks, which the government parties have a comment on here, they should also set returns targets for these companies, and it is important that the follow-up ensures that the yield target can be maintained. Effective operation is also part of the objective of state ownership, and so is the case in companies that do not pursue purely business returns. In the four extended controls carried out, the main findings are as follows: in several health establishments, waiting time is incorrectly recorded. This leads to uncertainty for both hospitals and patients. It is also this time a critical mention of the conversion process at Oslo University Hospital. The owner control is described here as weak. Reference is made to the fact that Health South-East accepted a very high implementation risk in this migration process. Health South-East knew that Oslo University Hospital in 2009 and 2010 had repeatedly reported on the critical risk associated with the complexity of the conversion mission they were assigned. The National Audit Office points out that neither Health South-East nor the Ministry adapted its management and took the necessary corrective action at an early enough time. These issues have been dealt with repeatedly by Stortinget, in other control contexts, and under health ministers other than the current one. So to the Ministry of Culture: the productivity of NRK television production has been significantly reduced after 2008, while the proportion of programmes sent with high production costs has decreased. Up to now, the Ministry of Culture has not obtained information suitable for assessing the effectiveness of this operation in relation to costs, following the National Audit Office's assessment. So to the Ministry of Knowledge: several student relationships have not adapted their operations to their financial frameworks and opportunities. Several of the interactions also have weaknesses in economic governance. It has been demonstrated for many years that the quality of health care reporting is poor and that incorrect recording of waiting time has consequences for individual patient’s ability to plan treatment and choose a treatment site. There is consensus in the Committee that this is a serious matter, but the government fraction underlines in its comments, like the ministry, that it is not possible to detect deviations without entering each individual journal. Nevertheless, there is agreement that this field needs to be improved, and a unanimous committee emphasises that work on ensuring proper registration practices must be of high priority. The majority of the committee, i.e. the opposition parties on Stortinget, is also seriously concerned that it has been revealed that Health South-East accepted a very high implementation risk, as I have already mentioned, before the conversion task was given to Oslo University Hospital, OYS. The Committee also agrees that the OYS migration should now be closely monitored. With regard to the NRC, the Committee is unanimous in its view that the operation should be efficient, and we stress the importance of the Ministry of Culture assessing the effectiveness of the operation of the NRC. I have to add, on my own account, that this is clearly a somewhat strange task for the Ministry of Culture, but they manage a large and important – including economic – institution, and then they should take this part of the criticism of the National Audit Office seriously. In the field of the economic governance of student co-operation, an overall committee also points to the need to further strengthen the supervision and follow-up of relations and asks the Ministry of Knowledge to pay particular attention to this field in the future. A theme that is not part of the National Audit Office's investigations, essentially, at least, but which is found to be serious by both a majority and a minority, is that the management salaries of the 42 companies continue to increase significantly more than the overall management wage growth of society. But I have to add that the majority parties also record that a number of measures have been implemented to improve the management of wage growth. Representatives of the Government Parties may comment on their own comments, pointing out that the departments concerned at forthcoming general meetings promote, if necessary, the introduction of the Protocol, so that the Management Board is entrusted with the task of reviewing the overall financial compensation for the Administrative Manager. There can be some criticism that this has not been done. There is, of course, an instrument at your disposal, but when it is so clearly noted by the government's own parties on the Stortinget, I can only say that it gives the impression that this instrument, i.e. a protocol application to the General Assembly, is not used in most cases. After all, there are 42 companies involved. I look forward with excitement and anticipation to the results of this business.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e969	It is clear from the rapporteur's presentation here that there is a broad consensus in the Committee on the vast majority of comments and opinions. But there are some fundamental differences, as was also said by the representative Foss, and I'm going to get into these. That is what is relevant to the presentation in the plenary session of the Storting. We say that the government parties view government ownership as also an opportunity to discharge social responsibility. Of course, we support the fact that all state activities and businesses should be profitable and healthy and that they should go ahead with profits. But it is also true that companies – especially the largest companies – have a responsibility that goes beyond this. I don't think our paths are separated so much here, between opposition and position, but we need to underline the social responsibility that these companies also have. They have a responsibility to ensure and further develop on behalf of the community. We also say that this implies that the boards and management of the companies must know the priorities of the government at all times in industrial policy and neighbouring policy-makers, for example. environmental policy and wage policy. I would like to stress, as there was a very intense debate yesterday, that, in this Chamber, of course, we all agree that the adopted guidelines for the exercise of ownership should be followed, as adopted by the Stortinge. So to the point that the representative Foss also raised – the relationship with the management salaries. I'm going to say it outright: it's the government fraction's clear belief that the management wages of parts of state companies have increased too much. This has been expressed repeatedly — over and over again — without having the effect that the bulk of the population obviously wants. I would also like to say something that – I was about to say – is not in the manuscript, but that I would like to say. We've had a lot of control hearings, and there's been good control hearings. But we've had hearings with the directors of the largest state companies, and that's what I'm going to call a personal experience, because you could see that they just didn't listen to what we said. It is a very big challenge in this context when they meet in the bodies of the Storting. I don't know to what extent they hear what's being said in the Storing or from the pulpit of the Storing, as it's called, but if they hear it, they should hear that I'm saying that they just have to get together at this point. It cannot continue as it has been. There is no criticism of government activity in this area, as the representative Foss indicated. He didn't say it very clearly, but he indicated it. Of course, we know very well that both the government as such and the Minister of Industry have had a very active commitment in this area. He's been talking to the leading directors. The guidelines for this are clear, but they don't work out completely. Then I'm going to hope that the landfill treatment and what's now said here can contribute to a moderating line. It is with this in mind that we have said very clearly that if it is that we do not have any effect on this clear political opinion, we believe, as we have said in the remarks, that the State should take out minutes at the relevant general meetings, just to highlight the state's view on this side of the matter. So I would also like to add some comments to what has been said about the NRK. Of course, in the case of NRKs, everyone supports what is in the setting, that the operation of the NRK should also be economically correct, it should be profitable and it should be effective. Of course, it is important that this is done within the limits of the economic situation of the NRC. But at the same time, I would say — and I need to say that — that the NRC is, in many ways, fully fulfilling its role as the main public broadcaster in Norway. The NRK is also a very important cultural carrier and means a great deal to both news communication, education, entertainment and cultural construction in the Norwegian community. I would say that largely – although we agree with the considerations that I made first, and I would like to emphasise it – I believe, in my view, that the NRK is fulfilling its obligations in a good way. It's very good and correct that they're licensed. It saves us too much advertising. So there's this thing about the health companies, of course. Here the government parties have their own comments. All agree that the Ministry has a close and active follow-up to regional health businesses and that they are given satisfactory reports quickly enough to contribute if there is a need for a change of course. The National Audit Board has identified and identified a deviation with regard to waiting time. I've written that this is not good, but I think I'll add that this is not quite acceptable either, because it's very demanding if we can't follow the waiting time rules. I agree with the representative Foss on what he said that this could have consequences for patients and could at least damage patients' confidence in the healthcare system. It is true that we cannot go into individual journals, so we cannot conclude that some individual companies are worse than others in this area. However, our experience suggests that when things are not in order in reorganisation processes, the employees are affected. Health workers are usually very dedicated, but uncertain working conditions often have a negative impact and may lead to changes in attitudes. We have also heard of abnormally long waiting times in departments that were previously able to meet their deadlines well and that were not specifically affected by the conversion. However, for whatever reason, it is necessary to raise awareness of attitudes and culture in order to improve patient administration. So we know that big shifts are risky. Changes are not always handled so well from management that despite complications and difficulties, they can be implemented as desired. Although conversions are of course necessary, they are not always received positively by all of them. In all conversion projects, therefore, there is great learning potential. In order to reduce the number of jobs in an establishment, it is difficult and often difficult for the employees concerned. It's hard to keep pace with the downpour if you don't make a good deal of transition to other tasks. In retrospect, we can see that budget excesses could have been smaller, and perhaps even the recruitment of staff to other hospitals in the region, for example. to Ahus, could have been easier. The conversion to Health South-East is not completed, but we see that it has been taken care of to follow up to the necessary extent in the future. In this context, it is therefore important to underline the need for training, follow-up and management measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e999	The debate on substance is closed. 5 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1013	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and will be allocated up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given for the replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President proposes that those who have to sign up for the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1022	When the ICT message One incorporates – one journal today is debated and adopted in Stortinget, we have reached an important milestone. The basis for this message has been set out over time: through a strategy for the interaction and use of the health network, development of healthnorge.no, implementation of e-receptives, electronic patient journal systems, EPJ, national reporting obligations and coordination and modernisation of national health records. In other words, much positive has been achieved in recent years, whether there is a broad consensus that the health and care sector has not made good use of modern information technology. We need to take a promise at all levels and with the whole sector involved, in both the specialist health service, primary health service and the municipal care sector. We're already in good shape. There's a lot of exciting happening around. In fact, it is rare to experience that a staging message is received as well in the field as the ICT message has been. As rapporteur of the case, I have met various actors involved in the message, attended current conferences and listened to the hearing bodies that Stortinget met in connection with the processing of the message. It is very reassuring that all stakeholders agree on the challenge picture drawn up in the message and that all subscribe to the key concepts outlined. Norwegian people are used to communicating and retrieving online information. The ICT strategy will give us new opportunities for both: good health information, transparency in personal data and the possibility to engage in dialogue with different parts of the health, care and care sectors. Not least, in a country like ours, there will be a lot to get into use, for example. telemedicine solutions in collaboration between treatment providers and in interaction between treatment and patients/users. The ICT message describes several important strategic approaches. The many and scattered patient journal systems we have need to be reduced, and patient/user health information needs to be coordinated in an integrated journal system. Health information must follow the patient/user wherever treatment and other health care are to be provided — regardless of where in the system or geography this is taking place. The message provides for better structuring of patient data. It is important, too much of the patient information in journals, referrals and epicrisis is free text. Therefore, we need a common terminology and a clinical coding of data, so that systems support the processing and sharing of information across healthcare levels. Information in the patient record shall be capable of being handled automatically when, for example: shall be submitted to the health records and to the planned core file. Privacy and patient safety are very important for further work on the ICT strategy. All systems dealing with information relating to our health shall be treated with the greatest degree of safety and confidentiality. Both legislation and technology must be aimed at ensuring that health information on individuals is not subject to unauthorised use. The message outlines many good tools for privacy protection. Use of the right of reservation and consent for the secondary use of health information shall also be investigated. That the message has been received so positively, promises well for the further work on implementing the ICT strategy. I notice that the department of ongoing preparatory work has had broad contact with a large number of different professionals, through conferences, meetings and other venues, as well as through its own blog. Also, several private actors have either been in dialogue with the ministry or made recordings via the network. It is therefore wrong when civil society parties claim in their comments that private health sector actors are not involved in the work of the ICT Communication. Because they do, actually. On the other hand, some private potential partners may not necessarily be able to adapt to a system established by a national strategy. It's e.g. not sure that private commercial providers – owned by large international health group – can. These actors operate in a number of countries, and naturally have to deal primarily with solutions and choices made by their own group management. And this will not necessarily be consistent with Norwegian strategic choices. I understand that there may be a line in the bill for parties such as the Right and the Advance Party, who will have the right to freedom of establishment for such actors. But for the rest of us, who have looked forward to this message, this is a very happy day.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1041	We are now processing a big message that has been given the title of One built-in – one journal. I hear that this message is being presented as a revolutionary news for the health sector and patient safety, and sees that the principle will be the subject of debate and vote at the National Labour Party meeting later this year. For me, the idea is neither new nor revolutionary. This has been a topic for several years both in the Norwegian health system and in our neighbouring countries. In Sweden, at least since 2005, they have had the job title One patient – one journal, which I see as much more precise, because it is only when one is a patient that the need for a journal occurs. In today’s society, it should also be obvious that healthcare professionals who have a patient for treatment have access to all health information about the patient, if the patient allows it. Patients should also have electronic access to everything in their own journals, in order to fill the vision of real content user participation. Unfortunately, we have not been there today, and there are many reasons for this. I note that government parties point out that the health and care sector in Norway has made significant efforts to implement information technology. It is possible that the red-greens need to draw such a picture, and one should listen to self-crust because it comes from the heart, it's called. Health services often talk about realising patients who have lost contact with reality. There is also a clear need for some representatives to be realistically informed. Norway has a fragmented healthcare system, and ICT solutions also have an impact on it. The transition from a large machine with stupid terminals to PC-based solutions and new platforms has not just gone without pain. The sector is still characterised by many proprietary solutions, random investments, lack of standardisation and low compatibility. In the wake of the Interaction Reform, the health services now needed more fax machines — or taxis — to send their records and important information on medical information and treatment needs. I'm not saying, of course, that Health Norway is a developing country in terms of technology and ICT solutions. Large amounts of money are invested each year, and ICT support has become an increasingly central part of modern healthcare. The challenge is that too little attention has been paid to the ability of the systems to communicate. Just take an example from my own home country. We have a hospital to serve more than 250,000 people – similar to a small village out in Europe. At the hospital there are 58 databases of patient information – after what I have heard. That is, the patient's personalia can actually be registered 58 times in one hospital only. The worst thing is that many of these databases cannot share data with each other, and it is hardly possible for a physician to obtain the medical information from the different databases at the same time in order to be able to see them in the context. Of course, we all want to do something about this, but the challenge is how we approach the problem. Other countries have tried national strategies and final solutions that have been tried to overcome health. It has been a failure and has cost incredible sums. The Progress Party has more faith in solutions that come from below and up. For data solutions to be successful, they need to be perceived as useful work tools that facilitate work, and not as heavy-duty, untransparent and binding. We need systems that can talk and exchange information – both vertically and horizontally in the administration. We need systems that can exchange information across different technological platforms. We need systems that can be available to all service providers, regardless of whether they are public, private or ideal. Nine out of ten people seeking health care get it in the municipality or in the hospital. The point of success in compiling journal data and coordinating computer systems so that they are adapted to form complete processing chains will be the path to which one chooses further. We know other countries that have tried and failed. The paper today outlines a vision, but it does not point to concrete measures to reach the vision. It's kind of going on in every direction. The Progress Party believes that there is now a need for a financing plan to enable the vision contained in this Communication to become a reality. This must be part of the Big One. The road choices made will be essential to the achievement of the objective. Therefore, together with the Right and Christian People's Party, we are promoting a proposal here today to ensure such political anchoring and follow-up. We believe that, and I therefore hope that the government parties will be involved in supporting the proposal that I am addressing. The left has distributed two proposals to the representatives' seats, which will probably be taken up later today. I would like to wait a little while for the explanations about these proposals to give our vote on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1077	The representative Jon Hunter Gåsvatn has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1080	Some positive developments have taken place in recent years in order to contribute to an ICT commitment in the health and care sectors, including: a strategy for the interaction and use of the health network, the development of healthnorge.no and the implementation of e-rept, as well as electronic patient record systems and the modernisation of national medical quality records and the central health records. However, there are still major challenges to the lack of ICT structures in the health sector. The system is characterised by a number of solutions that do not cooperate, thus preventing interaction and good flow of safety around and access to patient information. This is a challenge for both the quality of services, the effectiveness of healthcare and the safety of patients. In addition, there is not enough health information for the patient who is quality assured. There are too few developed systems for dialogue, self-help and patient involvement. New systems, better national coordination, more patient and user-adapted services and further development of projects under way are therefore urgently needed. The right supports the vision, the intention and the goal of the Storing Message. We believe, however, that it is too little operational, and it is disappointingly little concrete about when and how the vision and the objective are to be achieved. The Storting Message is more marked by a status report with great ambitions rather than a concrete, operational document. We had expected a much more offensive attitude from the government. There is a lack of a time horizon for the follow-up to the actions and recommendations and the strategies to be used to achieve the objectives. It may seem that the government is refusing to set ambitious targets of fear of not achieving the targets. This is considered to be a passive approach, which could lead to a bet in all directions, and in the worst case, Norway is still hanging behind in eHealth for many years to come. We believe it is important to build on the solutions that work today, and to strengthen the bet in a bottom-up process based on the real needs of the health care system. Investment in ICT can provide great opportunities for better quality public services, better value creation in the public sector and better decision-making. The general picture is that ICT processes in the public sector are time-consuming and comprehensive, and there are major challenges in their implementation. In addition to the health sector, Nav and the police are examples of this. The right is in favour of the development of one journal, but we are keen on how to design it in practice, how to solve the data protection challenge and how to organise funding. The government only announces the beginning of an investigation. In the case of «My health», the Right Government shares the views and attitudes of the Right Government, but calls for a timetable. We are calling for concrete measures and a discussion around the dilemmas. The message does not respond to the challenges in the field, just sketching them. It is, as I have pointed out, a significant weakness in the notification that deadlines are not specified, when targets are to be achieved, and the end dates of the various actions and projects. It was also clear from several consultation bodies during the consultation to the communication here in the UK: organisations and institutions are satisfied with ambitions and objectives, but lack concrete plans, lack a strategy, action and timetable. We believe that the notification also does not address the funding challenges sufficiently. The costs are not only incurred during development, but also during implementation and operation, which concerns municipalities about the effect of. A fragmented municipal structure is also a challenge because insufficient financial resources are being allocated to create good conditions for the implementation of ICT. The right is satisfied with the provision of more patient involvement and, in our view, it is important to facilitate information on opportunities and patients’ rights. On the right, ICT efforts in the healthcare sector will be reinforced with more national governance. Good planning is the key to success, and a nationwide national project of this size will require increased investment and allocation. And right will be a guarantor of privacy when new solutions are developed and implemented. I would otherwise like to refer to our remarks in the vote and the proposal where we stand with the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1114	It is promising what the Stortinge is being treated today. I notice that the opposition is unable to be more critical than to demand a slightly higher level of concreteity than what has been the ambition of this message. What is important now is to get support for some important choices, which I believe will both strengthen patient safety, increase the possibilities of user involvement and also increase the user friendliness of the Norwegian healthcare system. The objective of one citizen — one journal is about increasing patient safety, ensuring that both healthcare professionals and patients themselves have easier access to an overall presentation of the information relevant to a patient. We know that it's not least important in emergency situations. In addition, it means a better opportunity for each of us to understand the health care information about us and the information available on our own health situation. Electronic access, self-service solutions, I think will be perceived as a long step forward for most people. There are also some very exciting opportunities for electronic communications that will facilitate and improve dialogue and communication between healthcare professionals and patients. I would like to take the opportunity to point to a challenge related to this that I think it is important that we discuss. We know that we have a rather systematic class distinction in Health-Norway – not just a class distinction in health status, but in health access. We see that too often the health care providers are the most healthy, while those who may need them the most are the ones who use them the least. Of course, this is also because there is an inequality in knowledge of rights and knowledge about how to find the way in our health system. Increased use of ICT has the potential to improve this situation, but if we make it wrong, it can also exacerbate it, because we know that there are also clear differences here in the ability of people to find out in the systems. That means that the way we implement this will have everything to say because if we do something that weakens the classrooms in Health-Norway, or something that can potentially make it even more difficult for some people to figure out. Here I think it's important that we all have a strong awareness of the more detailed design of the solutions. There is a necessary debate on privacy that comes up when we make changes like this. I believe it is important that all parties of the Storting have a clear privacy agenda. There is no doubt that all conversions to more electronic communications, all the collection of sensitive data on each of us, have privacy challenges. At the same time, this also offers some opportunities to improve privacy, because it is not straightforward to have the situation we currently have, where not all relevant information is necessarily found in one place, and where the lack of satisfactory electronic solutions can also lead to the processing of sensitive documents in a slightly satisfactory way. I am pleased that the government is clear that these are the challenges it will come back to. Today we join some overall road choices, and then the government is quite clear that the detailed designs of the different solutions will come back again. Then the question is how to ensure that the class distinction that exists in health status does not also continue to be a class distinction in health access and the privacy challenges. There are things that I am absolutely sure the government will treat with the greatest seriousness, while in SV we are very happy to be able to give our support to what is the main direction of this, which will give us a more user-friendly and patient-proof healthcare.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1129	This is a very positive case and a necessary case with a view to transforming and streamlining the healthcare sector and meeting future demands. The development of good ICT solutions also has an impact on health quality and patient safety. Developments will allow easier access to data that can be used in quality and patient safety work. Electronic records and patient administration systems are necessary for safe handling and easy access to information on referrals, epicrisis, drug use, trial responses, X-rays, etc. Failures of these systems may result in a lack of vital information that has a decisive impact on treatment availability or in patients not being called in time. ICT developments in the health sector have been influenced to a lesser extent by holistic thinking. Many self-employed actors have prioritised ICT solutions based on local needs and objectives. This has resulted in many different systems that have not adequately supported holistic patient cycles and electronic interaction across enterprises and service levels. But when that is said, the health and care sector has changed considerably. I thought about it when I had my first summer job as a doctor, I think it was in 1991. Then I actually wrote by hand on the journal card at Bergen medical school. I quickly learned the value of having an understandable handwriting. I think, of course, that it was the superiors who wrote the worst, and that by checking it it could be quite impossible to interpret the writing of the treating doctor who had written on the card the previous time. So things are at least progressing. As it was then, of course, was not good, but there have been great improvements in 20 years. Nevertheless, we have major challenges in today's system associated with information technology. Compared to other industries, the health and care sectors depend on this. Today’s ICT solutions also offer limited possibilities for self-punishment solutions and for patients to communicate directly with healthcare professionals. That's a wish. Patients and users also do not have access to their own patient records online. So it's very positive that this is now going to be a priority field. More centralised solutions are needed to ensure that healthcare professionals have rapid and effective access to the necessary information. We also share the vision that every citizen should have a long-term journal that collects all health information. But to achieve this, there is a need for stronger national governance and coordination of ICT developments. The notification provides for the necessary changes to the health records, so that the record information can follow the patient through a seamless treatment offer. These measures are necessary, but it is important for the Centre Party to clarify that health information is sensitive and that such information must be treated confidentially and with caution. The privacy system must be protected and an entity protected. Tracking the login, access and access rights of the individual and authorisation requirements before login are possible tools. There is also the use of reservation rights and consent for secondary use. It may also be a challenge to ensure that the information is up-to-date and correct, and to prevent system failures – so that the information contained in such a future journal is always correct. Having the right information in a journal will be a major step forward in health care, but having the wrong information collected in a journal will be the opposite. Finally, I want to come in to whoever owns the journal. In the past, it was always the doctor, and only the doctor, who owned the journal. Now more and more patients are going to have their records. It's a development that we can't or should not stop. That's good. But it can also have its challenges. What I hope that doesn't lead to is that the doctor, or the person who writes in the journal, changes his or her way of writing a journal. In future, we must ensure that the necessary information about the patient and the patient’s disease is still in the journal, that the quality of what is in the journal is guaranteed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1155	The necessary health information shall follow the patient throughout the course of the patient. ICT systems currently used by health professionals support too little below this level. One of the reasons is that the health and care sector consists of many self-employed enterprises which are themselves responsible for the priorities, acquisition and operation of their own systems. This results in many individual and different solutions. That's why it's good that we now have to get an ICT system that talks to each other, and that needs to talk both horizontally and vertically. It will facilitate the work of all our employees in the healthcare sector, but it will also facilitate the work of all who are patients at one time or another. We are concerned that patients' privacy is being protected. The trust in the confidentiality of information to which all healthcare professionals are subject is essential for patients to provide confidential information to their treatment providers. Patient and caregiver depend on an electronic journal system that neither fails patient nor treats. For this reason, we are concerned that systems are being created to reduce the risk of data being diverted, through the logging of the use of patient records, the transparency of the patient and the use of eID for health professionals’ login. We also believe it is important that the design of universal electronic records to be used in both the first and second line services should take into account the consequences of the cooperation reform, that is. that there will be a lot of health professionals to have access to the individual patient’s records. Furthermore, we believe it is important that all healthcare companies have electronic security controls that take samples of patient records, as all hospitals do today. For us, it's important that we move on with this. It is important that we do this in the spirit of the Cooperation Reform, and it is important that we get this for the patient's safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1168	The left is not known in the Health and Welfare Committee, but I would nevertheless like to make a few comments on this communication to explain why we have today tabled two solutions. First, I want to say that we share the message's intention and description of the challenges. It is evident that the structure of LKT is weak in the health sector. The solutions are too poor, they do not cooperate, and thus ICT becomes a barrier to interaction and good flow of important patient information. The notification therefore addresses an important need for new systems and better national coordination. The left is pleased that we are now seeing a trend towards more user and patient involvement. We also support a development in which much of the communication and contact with health services is to be done digitally. The left is something more skeptical, is the goal of one journal per capita. It is considered to be negligible and there is likely to be an advantage to patient safety, but the notification is very unclear in its implementation. In particular, we in the Left are concerned when privacy is referred to as ‘patient safety’. We think that's going to be a mistake. This can actually be an example of the opposite, namely that patient safety and privacy are opposed. I am glad that the special representative Lysbakken stayed a little busy with this. Sometimes we have to let good purposes give way to strong privacy. Maybe this is such a case. Maybe it's completely impossible to secure against snooping. Maybe this is gathering too much sensitive information in one place. The left is by no means oblique. However, we will not reject the idea until we see a proposal on how this can be implemented in practice. We therefore support proposal No. 1, that we have to get a case to Stortinget about the implementation. In addition, we have made two proposals that, for some, may seem superfluous, but which for us are important to clarify. Pilots with very limited information sharing should be carried out before extending the one-journal project. The Communication only proposes to initiate the investigation of different options. We want to make it clear that it's a condition for us to go on with this project. In addition, we want to clarify what is meant by so-called relevant information before one national journal is implemented. The message uses this expression, and there is obviously something more to it than the information contained in the core journal. But is that all the information about the patient? Should everything from psychiatry to appendix to sore shoulders enter a common journal? The left would like this to be clarified in a matter for Stortinget, so that it is possible to discuss this in more detail. With this, I take up the Left's proposal, which is distributed in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1185	The representative Borghild Tende has drawn up the proposals that have been distributed in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1189	This is an important day because we are now discussing an overall message about e-health in a single big deal. That's good. Proper use of ICT can make a good health and care service even better. I feel that there is agreement on the principal lines, and that is joyous. The voice of the citizens will become more clear, in line with the other work we are doing in this sector. Patients and users shall have access to their own health information and be given the opportunity to decide on their own services to a much greater extent. Healthcare professionals shall have access to up-to-date patient information, such as referrals, epicrisis, drug use, trial and x-rays. If I get sick or have an accident, important information shall be available, no matter where in the country I need help. In the Single European Act, the government sets out its objectives and outlines the direction of ICT development in healthcare. The title ‘one resident — one journal’ points to the government’s objective, namely that healthcare professionals should have access to all necessary patient information quickly and efficiently — I stress ‘necessary’ in response to Trend articles before me. To this end, we need a modern ICT platform – a common national solution that includes the whole healthcare sector. This is an extensive work in which we play on the breadth and experience of the whole sector. We're in the process of evaluating solutions, but I'm not underestimating the complexity of this problem. That's why I think we should set realistic goals and move forward step by step. In the past, most of the health care was provided in one activity. Our law is then arranged. Increased specialisation and cross-action mean that a number of establishments are currently continuously involved in the treatment and follow-up of one and the same patient. Cross-border information sharing, which ensures this reality, is not adequately addressed in today’s legislation. Therefore, the government – and we have already started – proposes a comprehensive review of the legislation, so that the record information can follow the patient and the user throughout the course of treatment. At the same time, we need to ensure good privacy – let there be no doubt about it. At least let's not construct disagreements. Information related to your and my health shall be treated with maximum safety and confidentiality. The healthcare sector has a long tradition of doing so. Health professionals are subject to strict professional secrecy and have a high level of awareness about these issues. Nevertheless, I would like to stress that privacy is more than a matter of confidentiality. We also need to ensure that personal data is used correctly. Correct and up-to-date information shall be available to the appropriate person in a timely manner. Good privacy requires us to balance these considerations in a good way. I see that it will take time to reach the goal of a common national patient record. Today's activities must not stop. We have to think in the long term and in the short term at the same time. The good work in progress on improving electronic interaction shall continue. The health network is the secure infrastructure for electronic interaction in the health and care sector. The network has seen a significant increase in both users and traffic in recent years. The number of electronic messages has increased from 130 000 per day in 2011 to 580000 per day in 2013. It's a strong development. All hospitals, all fixed doctors and many other processing groups are already connected to the network. Almost all municipalities are running. Our goal is for all municipalities to be involved in the electronic exchange of health information with hospitals and permanent doctors by 2014. So here are both dates and ambitious goals. National nuclear records shall be tested in Trondheim in the autumn of 2013, followed by Stavanger. The solution provides rapid access to critical patient information, is important for the health care of the individual patient and will simplify the everyday life of healthcare professionals. Electronic prescriptions have been used by permanent doctors and pharmacies in all municipalities in the country, and hospitals are to be included by 2015 – a new target. By changing the Health Register Act, we can now demand the use of standards for the exchange of health information. This is very important. The use of a standard shall no longer be voluntary. A regulation on standardisation is being worked on, to be sent to the hearing this spring. This is one of our most important means of achieving a coherent offer across the country. I am pleased that we have reached a political agreement on a common target. It's important for the follow-up, and it's a good starting point for further work. I record that the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right believe that the government refuses to set ambitious targets of fear of not achieving the goals. I do not agree with that. ‘One citizen — one journal’ is perhaps one of the most ambitious public ICT surveys ever. But I believe that experience in other areas suggests that we are realistic here, that we set ourselves goals we can reach, and that we do so in a way that balances the need for legislation, standards, appropriations and equipment. If we are to succeed, we need to do a thorough preparatory work, learn from other major ICT projects and – as proposed by the Storing Communication – move step by step through regional development. We have a good starting point – the Nordics are online, and we are in the top level using electronic patient records. But we must continue, and then we need clear objectives, better coordination, up-to-date legislation and a new technological commitment. Here I believe that the staging message shows the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1227	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1230	I feel that the government parties draw a slightly rose-red picture of the ICT situation in the healthcare sector. Health South-East, together with the recognised non-profit organisation ‘Healthcare Information and Management Systems Society’ — HIMSS, is now well-known in the Norwegian health and ICT environment. The conclusion is that the region is on levels 2 and 3 on a top 7 scale. This report should have been published in early 2012, but it is still not public. So my question is whether the Council of State is aware of this report, and why this report is not mentioned in the Storing Communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1237	There are clearly challenges in implementing modern ICT solutions in the Norwegian health system. We have 17,000 different actors – from the local firm office in the corner to the main hospital. We were early out with electronic solutions. But much of it was paper and screen – not systems that communicated. I am familiar with – and I think it is well known in this room – that Health South-East has had challenges on the ICT side. I now see that they have set an ambitious and realistic plan to upgrade their system to become more modern. I see that the OUS now chooses an administrative system in line with solutions elsewhere in the country. It gets a leading role as our leading hospital in this area. That's why I'm sure we're going in the right direction, even here. Why this report, which has not yet been completed and published, is not mentioned in the big message, I think it really speaks for itself: This big message is about what we are about to establish, both in core journals, e-health, and in the case of one patient – one journal. That's why it wasn't relevant to mention here. But what is going to be public is going to be public and accessible to anyone who wants to know something.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1246	As I was in my post, the Right believes that the message does not address sufficient challenges related to funding. These costs are incurred not only during development but also during implementation and operation. The municipalities are worried. They've given a strong expression to that. A fragmented municipal structure is also a challenge, because insufficient financial resources are being set aside to prepare and create good conditions for the implementation of ICT. I could imagine what the Council of State thinks about the concerns of the municipalities, and how the dialogue with the municipalities is in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1253	The dialogue is very good, and I recognize the picture that the representative is drawing. There are challenges in the municipalities. But it also happens very well. I want to say that the main thing here is that the municipalities are a little different equipped. Then they have to be able to choose their solutions. We do that mainly by transferring free funds to the municipalities that they can prioritise. Never again has it been transferred in free resources from which they can give priority. I think the interaction reform, the agreements between the municipalities and the hospitals, provides a good platform for making good decisions. So it's right that it's going to require money. Some point out that new ICT will not primarily save money, but that it will provide better treatment and progress. That might be right. Without polishing against it, I would say that I believe the government and the Right have a different view of how to calculate money in this sector. The proposals put forward by the Right to give increased money to hospitals, we believe, are inadequately set up in the Right Budget – it actually leads to cuts in budgets. In any case, it is the Ministry of Finance that states when they provide an assessment of the proposal of the Right and how they should be included in the budgets. But here it's going to require more money, both for hospitals, as state property, and for the municipalities and the way they dispose of their funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1262	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1267	I think it is absolutely amazing that we now seem to get a total staggering behind the vision of one journal – one resident. It gives a clear direction for the way forward for Health-Norway. That's very good. Then you can discuss whether it's ambitious or not. When you know the challenges in Health-Norway, I think most people out there would say it's ambitious. Those who are in that everyday situation are ambitious. Then I hear the opposition talking as if nothing has happened on the ICT page in Health-Norway. That's completely wrong. Only since 2009 have we established Norsk Healthnet, where 17 000 companies are now connected. We've got an automatic credit card. We've rolled out E-receptors for pharmacies and medics. We have established Healthnorge.no, where you can now log in with your own BankID and get out information, and we are in the process of rolling out core journals during the year. In addition, healthcare companies have invested billions of dollars. For once, you have now realized that you need to standardize. So Health West and Health North already have DIPS well rolled out, and you've standardized. Health South-East is engaged in DIPS for the purpose of standardisation. Health Mid-Norway has chosen a different model – Siemens, I think it is – where you standardise. Then my first point is, when I hear the opposition talking about wanting a bottom-up revolution in the field of ICT, I would say it's wrong. That's exactly what has led us to where we are today, where you don't communicate with each other because you have chosen different solutions for each hospital. So I think the analysis is wrong when you say you want a bottom-up reform. There is a need for clear requirements for standardisation. It is necessary to require undertakings to have standardised systems in place to exchange information between undertakings. The second is that you try to make it like that the large-scale effort from the opposition in the budgets is that ambitious. It's not. As I said, out of business, billions of money are invested, and it's done annually. What's the big deal from the opposition is hard to see. I remember when Erna Solberg was at the head of an ICT revolution in Health-Norway, where you had to make two billion. kr every year for five years. I see that in the Right's alternative budget for this year there are 20 million. kr. Then we can discuss from here to eternity the budget hook behind that money. But the reality is that it's 20 million. kr inside the budget, there will be fine little ICT in the healthcare sector. When you think it's ambitious, while all that's actually happened from 2009 to today, it's not, you have a big explanation problem and credibility problem out in the field.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1282	When we listen to the representative Thomas Breen, it seems that we might get temperature in this debate as well. In fact, there has been standardisation in the Norwegian health system in the past. I myself worked in KITH – the Competence Centre for Health and Health – working against the EDIFACT Board and standardised messages at the beginning of the 1990s. It's nothing new. I know the entire DIPS concept from the very early beginning and know that it is a system developed from below and up, where the needs of the users have been in focus. Therefore, it has been successful and has managed to compete out some major international systems. So you have to bring with you a little bit of reality. But I understand that the government parties don't want to listen to the opposition, and then you might be able to listen to those in the field. The head of the Centre for eHealth in Health South-East, who is a not entirely insignificant player in this context, Hans Nielsen Hauge, spoke the following when he gave a talk in 2011 – I will take his conclusions: ‘– The expectations of users are guided by what they experience in everyday life — In the last 10 years, Norway has slowed down in relation to those with whom we want to compare, and to an even greater extent in relation to the development of society. “Users’ expectations about culture, attitudes and technology are today an increasing problem that can undermine the long-term confidence of the public in health. – In relation to politicians, a reality orientation is needed – in relation to users, change in culture and attitudes could be more reliable. This is everyone's responsibility. – However, there is a new focus on technology that is the way to higher efficiency and better quality.” And then he finally says, ‘It may take 5–8 years to bring Norway to the best level — if we start today and get politicians with us.’ That is exactly what is in the proposal that the opposition is now promoting. Here, we have to stand shoulder to shoulder and try to put in place a strategy that allows us to come forward to the vision that everyone has. It is not useful to be struck in the head with international groups and differences in the Norwegian health care system, as I hear from the position here. Here, there is something that all actors could be involved in and involved in, and put in place the tools that are needed to get a patient who has one file. So finally to the Left's proposal: I have heard the argument. We are choosing today to vote against these proposals because we believe that we must have paragraph 1 in place first.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1320	I'll be very short. I cannot get away from the experience that the special representative Gåsvatn is knocking on some collapsed doors. There is no one here who has said, not one single place in this message, that in one big grip, without having any experience from everyday life, you should pinch for an ICT bet. This is a bet that has passed over time, which you have tried out, among other things. in the health company under which I sort, Health Nord, where you have passed the race, you have tried and failed. The Council of State was very clear that we should also learn from what has been done in other countries. So it's going to be a reflection of what's happened at the grass root, as it's called, on the floor, where the individual patient is, and take a few general steps that make them actually have systems that communicate across the whole country and across what must be of dividing lines and boundaries. I just want to stress: we're going to discuss what we disagree about, but we don't have to stand on this pulpit and open doors. It was just the little prayer I had until the end.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1331	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1345	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and will be allocated up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that there be a change of line of up to three lines with replies from a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1354	In this case, a number of proposals are made for decisions aimed at preventing children from accessing tobacco products, making more arenas smoke-free and strengthening the protection against passive smoking. The proposals that are being made include: based on the Tobacco Convention, the Children’s Convention, new knowledge of health damage related to passive smoking, experience in the practice of tobacco law and experience from other countries. The legislative proposals are important elements of a larger package of measures aimed at reducing and preventing the harmful effects of tobacco use. It is emphasised that even if smoke-free tobacco is not as harmful to health as smoking tobacco, its use would also pose a risk of serious health damage. The proposals mentioned in the proposal therefore cover tobacco products in general. The World Health Organisation has established that smoking is the main risk factor for both early death and loss of healthy life years in high-income countries such as Norway. Smoking is the single most important factor for people's health, and is the lifestyle factor in which social differences are most evident. National Public Health Institute calculations from 2012 show that every year around 5,100 people die from smoking. That equals 13 pst. of all deaths in Norway. Daily smokers in Norway have been halved for the last 15 years, but the proportion of day smokers is still too high. In 2011, about 17 p.m. of the population daily. There has also been a large increase in snuff use in recent years. In 2011, 41 pp. by young men between 16 and 24 years of age daily or occasionally. The first focus area in this case concerns measures to limit young people’s access to tobacco. The plurality of the Committee will introduce a municipal authorisation scheme for the sale of tobacco. Today there is a ban on selling tobacco to people under 18 years of age. However, studies show that the age limit is too low to be enforced, and no one is currently responsible for monitoring the practice of outlets. Community aid scheme will ensure effective control and prevent the use of tobacco halls for minors. The Committee has opened up the possibility of provisional authorisation for the sale of tobacco products on a single basis and that the Ministry may lay down the criteria for this in order to ensure that tobacco policy concerns are taken into account. The Committee’s plurality will propose to ban the sale of small tobacco packages, as recommended by both the Tobacco Convention and the EU. This has already been introduced in 18 EU countries, including in Sweden, Denmark and Finland. In order to limit young people’s access to tobacco products, the Committee’s plurality will also have a general ban on the self-denomination of tobacco products. The World Health Organisation’s evaluation of tobacco work in Norway has recommended us to introduce completely non-smoking workplaces. Therefore, it is now proposed by the majority to lift the destination if the possibility of creating specific smoking rooms. The main rule shall now be that all workrooms, meeting rooms, other local and transport modes where access is generally available become totally smoke-free. An exception that is passed on is an institution's indemnity. It is also proposed to develop national guidelines for outreach activities in view of the acceptability of built-in land. Children and young people shall be assured of tobacco-free growth. The plurality of the Committee agrees with the proposal to introduce a ban on tobacco-free schooling for all elephants even to continue schooling. In addition, it is proposed to ban tobacco use in the school area, so that no tobacco can be added or used in the school. The third focus of this case on changes in the tobacco law is to improve protection against passive smoking. The majority of the Committee advocates a general destination which requires all those responsible for children to ensure that they are not exposed to passive smoking. The destination is normative and the breach of the destination is not subject to sanctions. The majority, including the incubated Right, will legislate a smoke-free entry party to health institutions and public institutions. In addition, a number of laws will have minor changes, including: are banned from tobacco sponsorship and bans on the testing of tobacco products are clarified in this case. In the setting it turns out that the Labour Party, SV, the Centre Party and the Christian People's Party are united on the amendments, while the Right Party and the Advance Party are essentially opposed. So it's a narrower political plurality for today's changes than it was when smokenova was introduced. In conclusion, I find it regrettable that the Right is moving away from the responsible public health line that the party previously led, and today there is no guarantee of a broad political plurality for important measures in tobacco prevention in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1378	I hope and believe that everyone in our country has come up with what damage and health problems smoking can cause to the individual, and that this gives us a steady decline in the number of daily smokers in our society. The fact that many actually manage to quit smoking after both 10, 20, 30 and 40 years shows others that it's useful. At the same time — and perhaps even more so — fewer and fewer young people are starting to smoke. The focus on passive smoking also works well-known. It's a built-in concept that most people have a relationship with, and the smokers recognize the importance of. The smoking law as it is today is very strict, but it is respected, and it works for those who do not want to be exposed to smoke. That is exactly why the Progress Party will today be voting against the whole of the law. We think it's a tightening up that's about a lot of symbol politics and a lot of bureaucracy. At the same time, for the Progress Party, it is an important aspect of the matter that we are actually talking about a legally sold and used product. The right to free elections is strongly attached to the Advance Party – that one can achieve very well without adopting a guardianship and imposing even more bans. People have to want to make good choices to promote their own health. At the same time, it is important to make it as simple as possible to stop smoking by facilitating replacements. Forcing people to buy twice as many cigarettes as they actually want doesn't seem very reasonable in such a context. Scaring people from snuffing by exaggerating the dangers doesn't make any sense either. If we want people to make reasonable choices, we also have to make sure that the information given is correct. I point out that research director Karl Erik Lund at SIRUS has stated: ‘Snosing is not risk-free, but new research shows that snuff is less dangerous than what was feared 25 years ago. The risk difference between snuffing and smoking is very high.’ The progress party is as stated against the whole law, but then the government parties submitted a note where they opened up temporary appropriations, we considered this to be very important and, together with the Right, have notified us that we will vote in a subsidiary way for this. Now, when we see how the matter has been put up for voting, we see that this majority comment does not come as an additional proposal, but that it is now part of the law. So it's a little inexorable to vote subsidiaryly, as we've told you before. One explanation of vote is that the Progress Party is against the law in its entirety. Of course, we support our own proposal in the setting, which I am referring to here. Finally, the Progress Party wishes to subsidise Proposal 3, promoted by the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1402	The representative of Kari Kjønaas Kjos has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1405	The legislative proposal under consideration today further strengthens the fight against tobacco use in Norway. Right-wing support for the amendments made to the purpose paragraph of the Act; raising the fight against children and young people starting with tobacco; raising the objective of tobacco withdrawal; and not least the objective of reducing passive smoking. However, the right is against the proposed inclusion in the objective of establishing a tobacco-free society. We believe that there is little likely political will to use the kind of instruments that must be needed to achieve such a vision. I myself was the case rapporteur last time we had a significant change to the smoking law, namely when a ban on smoking was introduced in serving places. It was an important change that the undersigned and the Right fully support, precisely because it was at the time a completely unfair discrimination against workers in the food industry – as opposed to workers in all other industries. It was completely impossible to defend the fact that one in Norway had a smoking law that gave a weaker protection against passive smoking for workers in the food industry than for employees in all other industries. That was also our basis for going in for that change, which was very controversial, but which has become very popular because of course it has also had the positive side effect that everyone else who goes to the serving places is releasing the smoke. It has probably also helped motivate many people to stop smoking or to quit smoking. We therefore still believe that it is important when regulating this area that there are good reasons for it, that there are real sanctions and that it is possible to follow up. These included: one of the main reasons why, at the time, all possible possible exemptions proposed by many, both with improved ventilation systems, more physical limitations, etc., were opposed to the Right. – precisely because the type of arrangements would only lead to more bureaucracy, and it would be difficult to sanction or follow up the law. We feel that some of the proposals that are being promoted today, and which the Right is voting against, are part of this category, namely that they create bureaucracy, they are difficult to follow up, and they also do not have enough anchoring and justification behind them. Examples of this are that you clearly no longer distinguish between smoke and swirling. In our opinion, there is a clear difference: the obvious difference is that snooping does not harm anyone but itself. There may be good arguments for regulating snuff use strongly — with the background of the health damage it causes to individuals — even though it is more uncertain than in the case of smoke. Here, a good precautionary principle could be used to justify this. There are a number of local areas where bans are now being extended, where no distinction is being made between smoke and swirling. We believe that the problem of part of the proposals is the follow-up — the penalty — when it comes through national decisions. Many of these changes are changes supported by the Right and Right People's Elections, both at municipal and county level, based on a local initiative in which one ensures local anchoring and has an opportunity to actually follow up. When this is done by means of a national law decision, without actually having good sanctions or controls, we are afraid that this will not give the effect we want here either. We share the view of the Progress Party that it would be wrong to vote subsidiaryly in favour of a proposal relating to the system of appropriations when we initially vote against the system of appropriations, and therefore correct the explanation of vote in the vote. In addition to that, I would like to address the suggestions that the right-hand side promotes in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1424	The representative, Höie, has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1427	Just a brief remark from the Christian People's Party. We support the legislative proposals proposed by the government. We support the intention to prevent children from accessing tobacco products, to make more arenas smoke-free and to strengthen the protection against passive smoking. Since the Act on Smoking was introduced, the proportion of daily smokers has almost halved. We see that law works, law affects people's behavior. It is important when we know that smoking is the main risk factor for both early death and loss of healthy life years — including in Norway, as the World Health Organisation tells us. That is why the changes that the government is making today, changes that we support, and that we believe will help us in the fight we face to give more years of life to more people in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1434	Some people think that the fight against tobacco is about guardianship, but it's about something far more serious: it's about an epidemic that kills, and it's about health differences. That's why we have to keep working and do what we know works: facilitate those who use tobacco, choose to take the decision to quit, and prevent more people from starting. In Norway, there are still 26 pst. smoking, 16 pst. of them daily. In several other countries, the proportion of daily smokers has fallen to 10 pst. So we have a piece to go, and we have tools that we know work. Work to reduce the adverse effects of tobacco is also an effort to address social health inequalities. Short-term students are overrepresented in the statistics on sickness and death due to smoking. The advantage of tobacco, compared to other areas of public health, is that we have good knowledge and evidence of what works. The legislative proposal is based on clear recommendations from the World Health Organisation, on Norway’s obligations under the Tobacco Convention and the Children’s Convention and experience from other countries. The legislative proposal contains a number of provisions aimed at preventing children’s access to tobacco products, making more arenas smoke-free and strengthening protection against passive smoking. The main proposal is to introduce an authorisation system for the sale of tobacco products. Such a scheme shall primarily contribute to the reduction of the illicit sale of tobacco to minors. Because we know that, despite the 18-year-old age limit, half of minor tobacco users are bought tobacco in stores, and illegal sales have no consequences today – it has to be over. I am concerned that the Right Party and the Advance Party are moving in exactly the same way as all the proposals in the proposal. It's interesting that the Progress Party is pleased with the decline in the number of smokers, but they're against all the measures that can get us down, and they were probably many of those who got us to where we are today. I am also surprised to hear that the Right is in this direction, and in addition to this strange argument from the representative Höie that other health objectives should apply to different municipalities – that municipalities can set health targets on the basis of the conditions they have for following them. I believe that at a general level we have national health targets in Norway, and we should follow that. These proposals are thoroughly explored, knowledge-based and supported by most hearing bodies, with one exception: the tobacco industry — and thus the Right and Advance Party. They go, for example. against a system of appropriations because they believe it to be bureaucratic. An age-limit system has been investigated for more than 10 years, and several different schemes have been consulted three times. A municipal funding scheme has been considered to be the most effective solution. Furthermore, both the Right Party and the Advance Party are critical that the law change also applies to snuff. I would like to emphasise that snuff use poses a risk of serious health damage, and it is important that new measures be put in place to stop — and in the long term reverse — the sharp increase in snuff use among young people in recent years. There the representative Höie said well: lead was. This is an addictive drug, and we don't have a full picture of the health consequences. They can be serious. Another important suggestion is to remove the smoking rooms. The World Health Organisation has pointed out that the current system of smoking rooms is in fact contrary to the Tobacco Convention guidelines, as new research has shown that different ventilation solutions do not provide adequate protection against passive smoking either. I will further bring forward the proposal on tobacco-free schooling for students. If we're going to eventually reach the vision of a tobacco-free society, the key is a tobacco-free generation of young people. We don't reach that vision by the fact that those who have started to quit, so that we don't have more smokers left, but we can have the hope of reaching it by not starting to smoke. So now it's good under 10 pst. in the 15- to 25-year-old smoking group. Then I believe we can say that we see the contours of a smoke-free generation. Tobacco-free schooling is an important measure to reduce new recruitment. We cannot accept that about 100,000 children under the age of 13 are exposed to passive smoking every day. Passive smoking is harmful at all ages, but especially dangerous for foetuses and young children. Passive smoking causes serious health consequences for children through life and contributes to the early establishment of social health differences. That is why I am actually proud of the proposal that children should have legal protection against passive smoking – with the clarifications on which the rapporteur was concerned. This sends a clear signal to parents and other adults about the importance of protecting children from passive smoking. Then I would like to remind you that legal regulation is only one of several instruments to reduce tobacco consumption. The new national tobacco strategy for 2013–2016 also emphasises media campaigns, information campaigns, taxes and help to stop. We humans have won battles against epidemics before. I think we can win this, too, but that requires a broad political majority to stand together. In the end, it might be tempting to ask the parties who are now opposed to these proposals, and who are constantly talking about that they want a government responsibility, how they will decide if they should get it. Will they then abandon these proposals? How will they look at an alternative tobacco policy if they are to be given the opportunity to make an impact on their policies?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1460	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1464	I believe that the attitude – regardless of whether the Council of State focuses on the areas where we disagree – shows that the Right also supports very much of the direction taken by these legislative changes. But I have a question. There was a change in the Committee's work which was not the government's proposal, namely to open up provisional appropriations for the sale of tobacco, for example. in connection with festivals. At the same time, the prohibition that festivals may charge for the exclusive right to sell tobacco to one company remains. It really means, as a consequence of what is happening in Stortinget today, that there will still be tobacco sales at festivals, but the difference is that more companies will now be released to sell competing products. Does the Minister of Health think that getting competition between tobacco products from different companies will lead to less or more tobacco use at festivals?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1473	Initially, I would like to say that I am not, in fact, in doubt about what the representative Höie thinks about these issues and that he is also in favour of a restrictive policy on tobacco. He has seen it work through the matter he in his time was the case rapporteur for. As far as festivals are concerned, our point was that we listened to hearing statements, we listened to those who promoted some of the dilemmas that the festivals would come in, and found that this decision was correct. Now I don't think competition between different providers is going to lead to more cigarette smoking because that competition costs. I don't think that's what's most central. The important thing for us was to listen to what we perceived as a concern for the consequences of people going out and in from festivals, and that there could be counterbands and other types of illegal tobacco products coming in. Whether this over time is the right decision, we'll see that. I'm concerned that it's going to reduce the smoking there. I'll tip that in a few years' time smoke-free festivals are norms and standards, and that we have to strive to get there.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1480	When I heard the statements of the Council of State, I got the impression that he believes the smoking law is the only reason the number of smokers has fallen. The question of whether the Minister of Health believes that good health can actually be adopted. Does that not mean that people get knowledge – that people have their own desires for good health – anything at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1485	I can clearly say that. Information means a lot. Knowledge means a lot. But we actually have strong debates last night, where the representative was not here at the end, and today seen that the Progress Party is quite visionary and ambitious in the repair sector, has far-reaching proposals, a lot of money, a lot of treatment places, a lot of commitment – but they have very modest visions on the prevention side. That's what we were in on the Russian side yesterday – now it's on tobacco. I believe that one of the reasons we have succeeded in tobacco is the combination of people's knowledge of their own choices and a society's responsibility for everyone's health by facilitating that those choices are simple to make. It was in many ways very controversial when we introduced smoking bans in serving places. Today everyone takes it for granted. I'll guess in five years it's unmistakable that you're smoking next to someone at a festival. But it's about our willingness to facilitate those decisions, so that we can also get help with it. For me, it's about a solidarity society where we're not atoms that hover around each other, but where we also help each other and facilitate that we can make good choices.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1490	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1506	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1515	I would first like to thank the proposers for raising an important and correct question. This is also an issue that the Committee has been considering in the past, and the same batches behind today's proposals have also taken up earlier proposals for drawing up a new notification of medicinal products with a comprehensive review of the medicinal product policy. Yes, even we had a unanimous committee that, in a comment, meant this in a previous position, but the case-rapporteur put a different interpretation in the Chamber in that comment, which prevented this from being implemented. The background to the need is that it is now almost ten years since the Stortinget last had a comprehensive review of the drug policy. At the time, the main focus was on the blue-receptive system, and the centre of the Higher Government that was set up at that time, which had presented the drug notification, introduced price mechanisms and market mechanisms in that area, which has since saved billions – not by being greedy about the use of drugs, but by using good market forces to secure us medicines at a reasonable price. The idea of this big message was also that some of these savings should be used to speed up the use of new medicines and to play a role in innovation in this area. Unfortunately, the latter part has not been followed up, nor has it led to an increase in the de minimis threshold and a reduction in the use of individual reimbursement. The background and basis of the need are then very clear, and we have seen that in the last few days of the debate on the use of new drugs. In particular, there is a need for a good discussion in the Stortinge in relation to the use of medicinal products and the evaluation in the specialist healthcare system, even outside the blue prescription system. There is a need to look at pharmaceutical policy also as part of industrial policy in Norway. Norway has good assumptions for being a country that plays a role also linked to the fact that we are actually spending quite significant amounts on health research in Norway, but we are not achieving the results related to the development of industry and jobs that one could have seen in relation to this. Norway also has the advantage that we have a public, jointly funded healthcare system and relatively good health records. This means that the testing of medicines and medicines in Norway means that a sample is given to enable one to get good results. These are also issues that should have been fully assessed in a wholesale notification. In the last few days, we have seen a strong discussion about the introduction of new carcinogens. Fortunately, in one case the government turned after extensive pressure, but in the other case, which is linked to Abiraterone, which is a medicinal product used in prostate cancer, one insists that this should continue to be on individual reimbursement – despite the fact that the vast majority of applicants receive the medicinal product and that research based on the number of the Register of Recipes shows that the system of individual reimbursement leads to the fact that these are medicinal products which, to a greater extent, reach people who are highly educated. This leads to social differences. It simply requires that you are conscious of your choices, make demands, and that you have a doctor who is willing to stand on. It is also a bureaucratic system, at least in view of the fact that in all cases all applicants receive the medicine. It is the Storting that has to decide when arrangements are transferred from individual reimbursement to general reimbursement in the BIP. This means that today the opposition is promoting a common proposal, supported by the Left, that the Storting should ask the government to propose that this active substance be moved from individual reimbursement to a general reimbursement in the BIP. In view of this, I would like to address this proposal and the proposal that has been put forward in the vote, namely the need for a new comprehensive review of the pharmaceutical policy in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1530	The representative Bent Höie has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1533	Medical policy is a subject that is still being debated. For example, on the basis of a number of headlines in various media related to access to cancer drugs, drug policies have increased the focus of the population. Unfortunately, the focus is not the same in today's government. The problem with today's pharmaceutical policy is that many different measures are not seen in their natural context. It helps to ensure that there is no overall approach to the challenges. And challenges are many of them, because while professional development in the pharmaceutical field is formidable from year to year, while research environments are constantly finding new treatments and methods, and as industry grows, unfortunately policies are far behind. It is almost ten years since the last notification of the medicinal product. Some of the objectives of the notification have been achieved, for example, the objective of price regulation has largely been achieved. Other objectives have not been achieved. In addition, of course, new challenges have emerged over these years. I have the light to give praise to Norwegian professional environments and to the pharmaceutical industry also in Norway. Through targeted research, Norwegian doctors are looking for new treatment methods for which there is reason to be proud. Through development and advanced processes, industry is helping to make new treatments possible, resulting in increased survival, improved quality of life and increased opportunities for individual patients. Nevertheless, many weaknesses should be corrected. Some are simple, some are more complicated. The proposal of the Progress Party points to some of the most relevant issues: The range of medicinal products wholesalers is one of the areas in which it is easy to help correct weaknesses that impede effective competition. Better online pharmacies solutions will make everyday life easier for doctors and patients. Better organisation of the bladder prescription system could contribute to less bureaucracy, and simplifications for the patient. The de minimis ceiling has been lower year by year, as it is not restated. A significantly higher de minimis threshold would give patients faster access to new and effective medicinal products. More research and development and better links between industrial and health policy objectives in medicinal policy would provide the basis for increased value creation in Norway and better provision for patients. Targeted involvement and empowerment to avoid the misuse of medicinal products could result in a reduced burden for patients and cost reduction for the State. More tried-and-tested treatment would provide the basis for the development of new treatment methods and for the provision of new opportunities to patients who do not respond to regular treatment. In sum, these points alone show the need for a review and improvement of medicinal policy. This review will be best if the pharmaceutical policy is not fragmented and divided, but is able to see the whole picture. I have also heard the whole thing before in this room that the Minister of Health is concerned about, and that he is thinking about quality. Therefore, there is a need for a new notification of medicinal products, as advocated by the Progress Party and supported by the professional community. The government should now know its visitation time. Today, government parties have the opportunity to launch a forward-looking pharmaceutical policy. All they have to do to contribute is vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1572	The proposers believe that there is a need for an improvement in Norwegian pharmaceutical policy and that the development of the area is faster than the political processes leading the sector. The proposers believe that new treatment methods and new medicine will not be made available to Norwegian patients as quickly as desired. A review of key areas of medicinal policy is requested in a new notification of medicinal products. The area covered are full range requirements, Internet pharmacy, blue prescription schemes, composition of National Councils for Quality and Priorities, de minimis limits and VAT on medicinal products, and the need for research, development and innovation, and to speed up the introduction of new promising medicinal products in the specialist services. Governments have provided a thorough and comprehensive response to the different issues raised. These questions will be worked on in the Department already, they will be warned, and the Council of State also writes in the letter that no decision has yet been taken on whether these issues should be submitted to the Stortinget in its own pharmaceutical notification or in any other way. I want to say that I can welcome a big message. It has been many years since the adoption of the previous big message, and at least it is my impression – and in part my concern – that there are still debates in the media and here on the Biggest on challenges in different areas of medicine and on pharmaceutical policy. It is good to debate, and it is necessary, but it may also be a symptom that some of the important principles of pharmaceutical policy are not well enough anchored. In the last two weeks, there has been a fierce debate on public funding for the use of two new cancer drugs. On March 17th, the evening post had a leader on this as I thought there was reason to reflect. One pointed out that the health director in that debate was met with the simple sheiks. The leader writes that the case showed how easily important the principle and real dilemmas are being circumvented and that the absence of clear priorities in the field of medicinal products can lead to injustice where the profession of excellence, strong patient organisations and commercial interests are gaining ground. The leader may have something to do with it. This theme is a great news message for you. Medical policy is a priority, and we should have a thorough debate on this at Stortinget. If we receive a new notification of a medicinal product, it must show the principle of governance and not least the priority within the field of medicinal products. It is a central area of medicine, and it has a significant impact on our health supply. The previous message had three main areas: correct price, correct usage and faster access. In the debates that are held in the media and here at Stortinget, I notice that what is being focused most on is the first and the last main area, namely the right price and faster access. It is also a major focus on medicines such as industry and nutrition, and it is important, but I am concerned that we are not focusing too little on the right pharmaceutical use in the population. Today, perhaps overmedication is an equally large and perhaps larger problem than too little access to medicine. Among the elderly, we know that overmedication and mismedication are a major problem. Among hospitalised patients, mismedication is the cause of many injuries to patients and the loss of years of life. We have to focus on the fact that the most common medicines, the most commonly used, and which are basically the safe drugs, are being used properly. It's e.g. Concerned that there is a large increase in the use of paracetamol among children and adolescents. Use has doubled in 20 years. In 2003–08, 35 deaths were recorded due to incorrect use of paracetamol. In a study referred to in the Norwegian Medical Association's Journal, we find figures up to 40,000 in the Nordics with drug-induced headaches, i.e. that they get headaches because they take too much painkillers. Thus, ensuring proper use of medicine in the population and preventing over-consumption is an important area of medical policy. Then I'll show you one thing that was up in the Storting before in the spring, in the Culture Committee. The Stortinget then voted down a proposal from the Right and the Advance Party to change the broadcasting law and remove the ban on television advertising just for drug approval for hall in the store, such as paracetamol. The question of advertising for medicines I think is health policy and not cultural policy, and I look forward to discussing pharmaceutical policy in a broader context on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1589	I'm going to make an open confession, and that's that of all the difficult challenges you deal with in health policy, I think drugs are one of the most difficult. I'm actually a little surprised at how much energy you use in the industry to praise the members of the Health and Care Committee, and how much in the debate that has been given by premises you don't have the basis for commenting on. Having an offensive approach to medicine policy is something I'm totally in favour of, and I'm very much in favour of reporting. St. 10 for 2012–2013 on quality and patient safety has given high attention to drug use because it is obviously an important part of quality and patient safety. Misuse of medicinal products is one of the most frequent causes of poor quality and mistreatment in our healthcare system. It is known that the patient safety campaign has three out of 13 dedicated elements related to drug use, and the background for this is, of course, that Norway, as in some other Western countries, is familiar with the experience of misuse of drugs. Why do I start there? Yes, because I think it is absolutely essential to discuss pharmaceutical policy in the future that we have a proper perspective on what it is about. Many of the costs of healthcare are now spent on drugs that have marginally better effects than previous medicines. Of course, this problem is interesting in itself, but it's particularly interesting if you start putting it into perspective, considering who is not getting the necessary health care because you spend too much money on medicine. Then you come up with what's been problematic for me lately, and that's when our counsellors -- the ones we've set to assess questions about complicated issues related to medicine and efficacy -- don't do their job, and when you're actually not doing a diet-benefit analysis in the trade union, and it almost becomes a campaign drive from the media on single drugs that no politicians have any basis for really thinking about. Then we are on a dangerous path in view of the development of the health debate in Norway. The debate on governance cannot be left to public relations agencies and the pharmaceutical industry, together with the media. We need to take action on how that kind of debate will be in the future. We know that only during the spring we are now facing, there are many new drugs in cancer that do not provide a healing effect, but that may provide life-long treatment. If all of these things are to be handled in the same way as last week's cases, we have a problem with other patients, who won't get health care because you spend a lot of money on drugs. I have heard estimates from professionals who have discussed this a little bit both in today's Medicine and elsewhere, talking about billions of dollars. None of these drugs give healing effect, they give life-long help. One cannot discuss this issue without putting it into a wider perspective – as a fair distribution of health. I'm terrified that we're going to end up in a situation where the Storting or politicians are going to start putting an approved stamp on single drugs. When using known knowledge – as in St. Meld. 10 for 2012–2013 is outlined as one of the challenges – it is also about drugs. Actually, getting doctors to know the effects of one medicine on another medicine is a big challenge when you get a common catalogue that is thicker than the Bible. No doctor is able to have a full overview of this, and one of the most common causes of mistreatment is that doctors or health professionals do not ask if other medications the patient is using. Then you put the patient on new medicine and get the effects of what's very harmful. So here's a lot of things to deal with before you start discussing a more politicized approach to drug authorisation. I can agree that there can be an offensive approach to blue prescription – we changed that scheme in 2008, which has made it more dynamic. You can have an opening in relation to where the limit should go when you can apply medicine, etc., but what the big debate on drug use needs to be about is: What are the adverse effects of mismedication? How are we going to make sure that known knowledge is used by doctors? How should we help to ensure that healthcare – both primary and specialist healthcare – is given a more general view of the interactions between medicines? And how are we going to provide an increased knowledge of the population around this by putting a pill in your mouth? So it's not free from a patient perspective either.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1606	The Christian People's Party supports the proposers in that a new pharmaceutical notification should be submitted. It's been eight years since the last time. Then we took important steps. The representative Thomas Breen can ask our colleagues who were in this room before 2004–2005 how demanding it was then almost weekly to get the requests that the Committee now receives from us on different medicinal products for use in different diseases. So it's going to take important action, but I – and we – still think there's a need for us, as elected representatives, to have an awareness of pharmaceutical policy. I think Kjersti Toppe addresses important points in relation to the priority debate that the representative draws up in his statement. We believe that we must have a pharmaceutical policy for the benefit of all those who need medicines and for the benefit of health professionals, but we must also use the research and development arenas we have in our country for the benefit of our citizens. When we read the answer from the Council of State, it is said that you are already working on some of the issues that this proposal addresses, so the question is then just how we are going to discuss it – whether it is going to come like that or not. I now experience that it has been signalled from the government parties that you want a width in the discussion. Then it is, as the Storting is connected, common for a debate to be taken through a message, and I hope that the government will at some point see that it is a good idea to take these important priority debates into a comprehensive policy review in this important field.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1613	Since we're getting well warmed up here, I'll say, I'm convinced, I'm too notified. I think it's a good idea, and I think the time has come for us to make such a big message. At what point and with what process do I want to come back to, but I think that in general it is to get such extensive questions into a good process and debated here in the Chamber a good proposal. But we now have to look at it a little bit in relation to all the other measures we have going on in different messages, which follow up the platform from 2005 and the last big-time message, before I am prepared to conclude with regard to the process and timing of this. Indeed, the objectives in the field of medicinal products, as presented in the 2005 notification of medicinal products, are set. There is broad political agreement that we should have access to safe and effective medicinal products irrespective of their ability to pay, that medicinal products should be used properly professionally and economically, and that there should be the lowest possible price of medicinal products. The quality report, to which reference was made, is for treatment in Stortingen, which mentions several of the issues raised. The notifications are important for the proper use of medicinal products and provide guidance for patient safety, more systematic testing and the introduction of new treatment methods and better quality through knowledge and innovation. Let me then mention some of the points we are working on in connection with the representative proposal, as I would say – and I have responded to this in a letter – is an interesting and exciting proposal with many good considerations. The amendment to the 2008 Blue Recipe Regulation provides for a more dynamic reimbursement system. At the same time, it is necessary to require that medicinal products be effective and safe and that costs be proportionate to their effectiveness. We want to monitor expenditure on social security, and funding for medicinal products must be given priority over other measures. The de minimis limit determines who is authorised to grant a pre-authorised refund and, as we know, the State Medicines Agency may grant a pre-authorised refund if the total cost does not exceed the de minimis limit. Medicinal products that will impose additional costs on social security must be presented in the budgetary processes, as we know. This limit – the de minimis limit – is a balance between the rapid introduction of new medicinal products on pre-authorised reimbursement and the control of costs of popular protection. It is important to stress that the de minimis level may not necessarily be the reason why new medicinal products are not granted a pre-authorised refund, but that the Agency has assessed that the medicinal product does not meet the professional criteria for reimbursement, such as: the cost-effectiveness requirement, which we cannot choose from. If the professional criteria are not met, no refund is granted in advance even if the costs are below the de minimis level. There are complex reasons why drug use errors occur, and this is addressed in particular. in the main message and in the patient safety campaign in safe hands. This is about the coherence of medical lists. The aim is to prevent damage to patients as a result of a lack of medical information when the patient is admitted or discharged from a hospital. We have the right area of drug use in hospitals and in the home. The Health Directorate has provided a guide for structured drug reviews and a package of measures to promote the proper use of medicines in hospitals and in home care. Our long-term commitment to research, development and innovation in the healthcare sector also involves commitments in the pharmaceutical field. Here we have a holistic approach to coordination of the department's sectoral responsibility and the instrument. Measures to increase the scope of clinical studies and innovation and commercialisation in the field of medicinal products, to which the writer is concerned, are highlighted in several Communications to the Stortinge. The measures have produced results. After years of decline in the number of drug studies, we saw a positive increase in 2012. The increase was most marked in cancer, with almost 100 p.p., but also in public-initiated studies there was an increase of about 60 p.p. The government's commitment to biotechnology is enshrined in the National Strategy for Research and Development in Biotechnology. I want – and I am doing it now – to set up a new system for the introduction of new technologies and new medicines in the specialist healthcare service. This has been well received and will contribute to more transparent decision-making processes and a more coherent knowledge-based process. The government will facilitate increased access to trial processing. I want a clearer framework for testing and introducing new methods in the service, where one of the key instruments is to establish a set of national principles for tried and tested treatment. This shall contribute to the fulfilment of requirements of professional soundness, to the provision of information to the patient, to the consent, follow-up and monitoring of the patient and to the demonstration of the treatment effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1632	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1635	After a number of reports related to cancer drugs in the last year, the Council of State has had to turn the reel around at its positions several times, and I am pleased about that. However, it is evident with all clarity that there is a need for a renewal of the pharmaceutical policy. It has to be seen in context. What makes the government have such intense reluctance to renew that policy now?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1643	It is wrong that I have turned the reel around. I support the assessments made here by the Health Directorate and the Health Director, where they have conscientiously followed up priority choices according to the guidelines supported by a broad majority in Norway. What I've done is take the initiative to initiate a research study on this drug against femoral effusion. I think that's important, because we need to know more about how these medicines work. So I just want to join in what other speakers from the government parties have said here, that prioritizing is about seeing important goals in a context. This is a very costly part of the health sector, and we need to evaluate the means we put in here, in relation to the effects we get in other areas. A good prioritisation system is a defence for the weakest and their interests – those who do not come in front of the TV cameras, those who are not seen by important press groups. Therefore, I think it has served Norway well that we have had a strong prioritisation system, and I hope we can still – although there may be little doubt about it – have a broad majority around these criteria, and that we can also stand around those who are responsible for taking the difficult decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1652	First of all, I would like to say that I am pleased that the Council of State is now turning around and supporting the proposal that a person should receive his own medical message, and I think that the representative Toppes and the representative of Breen's posts here were some of the strongest contributions to the need for such a notification. My question, on the other hand, is about the second opposition proposal: the medicinal product for prostate cancer patients currently being given on an individual reimbursement basis. When one sees that such a large proportion of the patients who have an indication of this are receiving the medicine, and one knows that research shows that the system of individual reimbursement leads to social differences in access to this medicinal product, what is the reason why the government does not reverse this issue but maintains this system?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1659	The reason for this is that there is a bad practice, I believe, that the government and the Storting should become judges and assessors of individual medicinal products when we have competent professional authorities to make the assessment based on the criteria we have adopted politically. Then the situation of that medicinal product is quite special, as the representative says. So it's not included in the guidelines, but about 500 patients get the medicine prescribed by individual reimbursement. It raises some fundamental questions about how we finance medicines, and within what framework it happens. We're going to think about getting a little bit more thorough back to that. The important thing now is that the Health Directorate has clarified this and informed about it, and that those who need it can apply for individual reimbursement. I think that's the way to go for responsible doctors to know what opportunities they have, and that we can then meet the concerns that may be related to social inequalities in the health sector. But I'm skeptical that we're here in Stortinget, on our own basis and politically thoughtful, should begin to adopt individual drugs into such lists.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1668	Do I then understand the Minister for Health that he believes it is wrong that Stortinget takes a decision on what active substances to apply for a pre-approved refund?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1673	It's like we're going to adopt drugs here on the blue prescription, but we're going to do it on the basis that there's thorough assessments of those who look at the severity of the disease, the effect of medicine and the cost against other conditions. I'll repeat it. I think it's a very good thing that we have such a reworked system. What I've learned about this in the last few weeks is that Norway is actually in contrast with many other countries that spend a lot more money on this, but do not have better results in patient treatment. It's because, I think, we're making the right choices, and we're able to use resources in a way that just benefits weak groups -- those who don't necessarily get the big tips and the big attention. I think we deserve to stick to this system, so that the decisions of the Stortinge are also based on good professional criteria that we can all stand behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1682	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1685	I want to start by arresting the representative Bent Höie a little bit about the fact that the Council of State must have turned around. In the situation of the case, it is stated in the letter from the State Council that many of these questions were under assessment in the ministry and that the question of a complete message had not been concluded. Now the Council of State has concluded on that question. Then there is a need for an explanation of vote also from the position, where I recommend the red-greens to support proposal No. 1 in the case, because you've concluded that it's the best approximation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1690	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1704	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1713	Today, we are discussing a proposal from the Christian People's Party that deals with measures for increased physical activity and better public health. There is an overall committee that notices that the population has become heavier in the last ten years. The 2011 Health Key Fact Report shows that only 20 pst. the adult population complies with recommendations in at least 30 minutes of daily moderate physical activity. In particular, the level of activity among young people aged 9 to 15 has fallen significantly. It is also an overall committee which considers it important that physical activity be lifted and given a central place in a public health perspective. The Committee also considers it important to facilitate the provision of walking and cycling facilities and safe walking and cycling paths. Furthermore, the Committee notes that the work undertaken by voluntary associations and organisations to provide the population with a good supply of physical activity is important. Without them, the population would have been much less active than today. Furthermore, the Committee considers it important to promote physical activity for schoolchildren and young people as important. The Committee considers that there is a need for an overall approach to public health work and therefore a comprehensive action plan for physical activity is welcome. There has been broad agreement in the Committee's work on the problem and many of the objectives, but when we come to the proposals and the way to the objectives, they are probably somewhat different. With regard to the proposals and instruments of the individual parties, I expect them to take it on their own. The progress party believes that one of the best things we can do is start by introducing an hour of physical activity every day at all levels of primary and secondary school within today's hours. This has been demonstrated in Sweden. There the two classes followed throughout basic education. One class had sports every day, while the other had two hours a week. The one with the most physical activity was given increased energy, improved motor development, increased concentration and improved performance. In this context, the party notes that the swimming pool is empty despite government promises in 2005 to fill these pools. This could be a good supplement and a good arena to increase the physical activity of the population. Another important measure, in the view of the Progress Party, would be to invest in a state reward scheme for walking and cycling routes. We think it's a good device where especially Aktion school road has been a success. This would clearly help to promote good attitudes for children and young people who will be able to walk and ride safely to their schools. These are again attitudes and habits that children want to take with them in adult life. That's why it's important to start with the kids. The party notes that some will make unhealthy choices more expensive rather than making healthy choices more reasonable. I think it is wrong to make products more expensive because some people do not make the right choices. It should therefore be an objective that a positive action should make it pay for healthy choices. If you wanted the adult population to engage in more physical activity, as the recommendations say, you should also facilitate it and not punish it with taxation. An example of this is an employer-paid training card. This should be tax-free. It is therefore appropriate to consider introducing tax exemptions for employers offering their employees monthly cards at training centres. This can increase the activity of adults and thus improve health. I take this up with me the proposals that the Progress Party has been involved in promoting in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1741	The representative of Morten Stordalen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1744	In 2003, the then Minister of Health Dagfinn Høybråten from the Christian People's Party presented the preliminary public health report that has been dealt with in Stortinget, Recipe for a healthier Norway. The overall objective of the Communication was a healthier Norway through a policy that contributes to several years of life with good health in the population as a whole. The aim was to reduce health inequalities between social, ethnic and gender groups. Smoking was highlighted as the most important single cause of illness and early death of our time – unfortunately, we have had that debate earlier this afternoon. The communication pointed to physical inactivity as the major health problem of the future. The main single measure in the Communication was the Smoking Act, which was promoted and dealt with in the Storting in parallel with the Public Health Communication in spring 2003. Figures from the SSB show that Nordic life expectancy has increased by three years for men and two years for women over the past ten years. The main single cause of the increase is the reduction in smoking. These results got TV 2 to produce the following news item about the former representative Dagfinn Højbrätten a couple of weeks ago: ‘This man has extended your life by 2,5 years.’ It's not a bad certificate for a politician to get. Under the red-green government, there hasn't been so much about public health. But this is about to turn around. Our new Minister of Health, Jonas Gahr Støre, points to good tactics. During the next month he will present a big message about public health, and it looks Christian People's Party up to. The goodwill of the parties to the government with regard to our proposal for a representative suggests that this communication will include a lot of good policy. The Committee's work on this matter has shown that there is a broad majority for several important actions. I am particularly pleased to have received support from the government parties and the Progress Party for our proposal on daily physical activity in school. The government parties do not vote in favour of the proposal in the hall, but ask the government to consider introducing one hour of physical activity each day at all levels of primary and secondary school within today's hours. This is probably so close to the Christian People's Party that it has been a majority for one of our own proposals in the last eight years. I celebrate it as a great victory. I also think it has to feel a little liberating for representatives of the government parties for once to be allowed to participate in anything you want, even in this room. I also take it for granted that this we will see again in the public health notice when it comes from the government. Daily physical activity in school is key to preventing lifestyle-related diseases such as cardiovascular, cancer and diabetes. I think it can also help reverse the trend of increased obesity and obesity. The majority also support the development of a new physical activity action plan and the improvement and extension of the green prescription system used by the decision-makers. This is good. I also hope that the Minister of Health will look closely at the other seven measures that the Christian People's Party is addressing in this matter. In particular, I would like to highlight the proposal on rehabilitation and the new construction of swimming pools. It's because swimming pools are among those sports facilities that reach the longest out, to the full width of the population. It means most to public health. In 2005, Prime Minister candidate Jens Stoltenberg went to the elections to fill the swimming pools. Figures from the Norwegian Swim Federation show that up to 300 Norwegian swimming pools have been dried in the last ten years. The swimming pools that still have water are often in poor condition. Now in 2013 the swimming pool at Norway's sports school was emptied of water due to a lack of rehabilitation. Then we must be able to say that the maturity has come a long way. I record that the government parties in the setting point out that the swimming pools are not a state responsibility. But in the 2005 big elections, this was presented as an important matter. I'm going to finish positive. I feel that there is a large majority in this Chamber who are concerned with public health. I believe that today we have progressed a long way towards daily physical activity. I look forward to lending away the Christian People's Party's good public health proposals for the government's public health report. I bring up the proposals of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1775	The representative Heimdal has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1778	Public health is a demanding area, not least because it goes far into the private sphere of people. It's about how much physical active we are and what we eat. It's about our habits and habits and everything that happens from waking up in the morning until we go to bed in the evening. Nor can public health be confined to a short period of our lives. The foundation is laid while we are children, and it follows us in youth and adult life. We adults affect our children again. Our health largely determines how old we become and how old age appears. As many people have experienced here, public health in Norway has generally become better than it was a few decades ago. Lifetime increases for every year. Changes in lifestyles, improved diet and reduced smoking include: contributed to this. At the same time, we see that living habits vary between social groups and can contribute to increased social health inequalities. Developments are going in the wrong direction in several areas, especially in terms of physical activity and overweight. Voluntary teams and organisations do a lot of work every day to facilitate good outdoor experiences and physical activity for all of us. In particular, a major effort is being made through children’s and young people’s sport. Unfortunately, it does not reach everyone. The physical activity of the Nordics has declined in the last 50 years. Still fewer have hard physical work. We drive more cars, and many people are busy with quiet work and leisure activities. In particular, it is worrying that too many children are inactive. Anne Lise Ryel of the Cancer Association has said quite aptly: Before we had to call in the children, now we have to chase them out. The Stortingsmeldningen Recipe for a healthier Norway was the starting point for several interventions that have produced good results. The main individual measure is the smoke law presented and introduced by the Cooperation Government. On the basis of this Communication, a separate action plan for physical activity was developed between 2005 and 2009. It has now been evaluated, and most of the 108 interventions undertaken have been successful. We believe that this work needs to be continued with an effort beyond the health sector. We must have an overall approach to public health work. In particular, work must focus on the impact of health behaviour and lifestyle, the development of low-threshold services for physical activity and the planning of physical surroundings. It will make it easier to choose an active lifestyle. Increased physical activity at school, access to swimming lessons and swimming pools are important factors. Schools and homes need to cooperate. School alone cannot solve the challenges of providing children with enough daily physical activity. It's not least a parental responsibility. An important measure may be to let children go or ride bicycles to school where it is provided. Every fourth grade is driven to school even though the distance is less than 500 meters, according to the Transport Economics Institute. A look-up in the newspaper yesterday found out that many principals across the country have become the worst enemy of the bike. They see it as their responsibility to prevent children from cycling to school. I agree with NAF and the national federation of cyclists that instead of enforcing rigid bans on cycling, they could contribute to more cycling among the students. The principals can do this by identifying the school roads and briefing students and parents on good bike paths. There is clearly a need for better organisation and attitudes in schools. I would like to highlight the pilot project, supported by Transnova, planned by the Cyclalists National Association. They will cooperate with selected schools across the country to have more children, and also teachers, to ride to and from school. Their goal is to involve, motivate and engage both school management, teachers, parents' cooperation committees and parents. I would like to add: local politicians must also be on the road and contribute. These are projects we want to welcome, and we want to see more of them. In the right, it is important for schools to take advantage of the local space for action in order to facilitate physical activity, among other things. by organising the school day with a little longer breaks, so that students can have more physical activity. Much more could have been said, but we will come back to this when we deal with the public health message that the government has notified. We look forward to a broader debate on public health.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1801	I really take the floor to say that I think the proposal that is on the table is a very good one. It takes up a great many of the important factors that must be taken into account in following up on public health and primary prevention, as the Stortinget took up when we dealt with the interaction reform and when the Stortinget dealt with the public health law. Physical activity is very important, not least to target those groups of the population who especially need to be organised for physical activity. Not all of them, but there are special groups that need special attention and that need to be targeted. Then it is important to stress when it comes to the follow-up to what has been adopted on public health – I am very pleased that there is now a public health report from the Minister for Health – that there needs to be a broad commitment. It was said in a previous debate on tobacco that there needs to be a wide range of efforts, and action needs to be taken in several areas. In particular, as regards tobacco, which has been debated in the past, I note that the opposition parties do not agree on the availability, organisation of physical activity, and not least in tax policy – the fact that healthy foods have to be cheaper and unhealthy food more expensive, to say the least. So just effort across a wide area over a long period of time will produce results. I sincerely hope that we will receive an answer when the public health announcement comes, and that there will be a broad majority behind it. Then we will also be able to see results gradually – perhaps not tomorrow, but in a few years the results will come. It is the only right way to go in terms of broad and comprehensive health policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1812	The social and health differences are Norway's biggest health challenge, I tend to say. Good health and several years of life are related to social factors such as education and income. The degree of physical activity is unevenly distributed and leads to class distinctions in the case of health. Many young people are inactive — and there is a greater problem in youth than in childhood. The Christian People's Party makes many good proposals in this proposal to increase physical activity and improve public health. Although the government is about to deliver a public health report, I can make some comments to some of the proposals. The center party has in its program in this period that we want to introduce an hour of physical activity into the school every day. Here we are in line with the Christian People's Party. I'm glad that this is about to be reviewed, and that we will come back to this in the Public Health Notice. Because it's important, we're going to reverse the development with inactivity, that we start at school. If we're going to reverse developments that have an increase in social health differences, we're going to have to prevent in school, it's both physical activity and diet. Then I'm very happy in the pavement. It is a paradox that the young have to be run to school because of road traffic hazards or because of poor parental habits, and then demand that the school be arranged. We have to do both. We have to have an hour of physical activity at school every day, while we're going to make sure that most of the kids who don't have too long schooling can go back and forth to school. It has been proposed that a separate interchange system for pedestrian and cyclist roads should be established. I don't think that's necessary, because in the accompaniment system that exists for public transport, a transition to walking and cycling is very clear. Then there's a point that the government has to come up with quality requirements for the schools and their kindergartens outdoors. Now I don't know enough about it, but my experience from local politics is that the municipalities are authorisation authorities for schools and kindergartens and can set quality requirements for the outdoor area. It may be that it has to be even clearer, but there are at least regulations in that field today. The Green Recipe scheme is a good arrangement that can certainly be further developed and even more used by the fixed assets. So to this with swimming. I share the concerns raised by the Christian People's Party in the proposal for a representative. It has to do with public health, but it also has to do that maybe up to half of our teenagers aren't defined as swimmers. I thought we could admit that that's not a good enough result. We have strengthened the local economy in a good way since 2005. We have increased the take-off arrangements for swimming facilities, but I still think we need to look at how we can do this even better in the years to come. I have the sense for the proposal to reintroduce the swim button, and I have the sense that we should improve our teachers' skills. Because there are some kids who are taught swimming, but don't learn how to swim. And then finally, I have a consideration. I think it's a bit striking that a person is very busy with physical activity and not busy with diet. It is such that the Christian People's Party we remove the arrangement of free fruit and greenery in the school. There are two issues that are important when it comes to countering social health inequalities and improving public health, and that is physical activity and diet. Fruit and vegetables are a system that health professionals applaud and that young people like. So there I actually thought that the Christian People's Party could listen to us – when we have listened to them in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1833	First of all, I approve 100 pst. The embrace of the Christian People's Party by Minister of Health Gahr Støre. He's a good man in a good government. Then to public health. Of course, it should be done to promote proposals on public health where very many people oppose it, because intuitively you will think that very much makes sense around public health. But then the representative Hemdal went into the trap by claiming that nothing had happened on the public health side since the Christian People's Party delivered the last message. That's wrong, of course. Only in the current ageing period has quite a lot happened on the public health side. You have e.g. doubled the number of health centres, from 75 to 150. Health care centres play an important role in municipalities, not only for physical training but also for guidance on diet, lifestyle and the challenges of breaking bad habits. We've introduced two school hours in the middle of physical activity. It is a significant effort for public health. We have increased significantly the investment in walking and cycling routes – now I see that the Minister for Transport will take over after the health debate. I also hear rumors that the new NTP has a solid increase, you're talking about over 700 million. kr in the year to walk and cycle path – fantastic public health bet. We have established a national health and care plan that obliges municipalities to organise physical activity. So there are many elements here, even if you have not delivered a specific message. But in addition, the Minister of Health has launched the idea that we should make a public health report during the spring. It has been far on the way – it comes after Easter, it has been notified to the committee. There will be a good opportunity to discuss many good public health measures. So a couple of considerations. We have very easily discussed children and young people when discussing public health. That's right, of course, because with good growing-up conditions and healthy habits from young people, the basis for a lifelong thinking and culture for the individual is laid. But when you look at the degree of organization of children, for example. In organised sport, versus youth, it is seen that the dropout begins around the age of 14–15. It is further reinforced when you get out of work. My personal maturity began in October 2005, when I started here. So we have to have this perspective -- when you drop the good habits or when life-style situations occur so that you can't complete what you've been doing in periods of life for good health. In this way, there are interesting phenomena that happen out there, where the low-threshold volunteer is able to create a movement in our society. The thug really started out as a little hairy comment on Facebook from a man in Moss. He was supposed to slim down, it was New Year's want. Today, there is a movement of well over 20 000 members that operates a low-threshold offer at the absolute lowest level around the country and even abroad, where you organize the simplest of everything every day, going out and going into a system where you get a positive pressure to get out and move on. And we know that half an hour a day is enough to improve public health. But the interesting phenomenon of Tjukkasgugen is – one thing is physics, but – all the stories where you hear about improved mental health, where for the first time in adult life you are included in a community, or which Per Fugelli talks about: the great we, a part of the flock. There are also important elements in discussing public health, where physical birth can be the entrance to that perspective. We know that physical birth is an important part of having a good mental health. It is important to have a comprehensive approach — not only in terms of national action, but also in terms of the full human life-cycle perspective. Very many elderly people will benefit from physical feeding to prevent dementia. We know that moving is one of the most important measures to slow down dementia. We must see a great whole that is not necessarily found in the many good actions the Christian People's Party has promoted here. I look forward to discussing the big picture when the Minister of Health presents the April Public Health Communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1852	The President will only state that the Storting has a trim on the basement floor, for both representatives, employees and government councils.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1856	It's tempting to give a compliment to the previous speaker after this post, and I think the way to do it is to say that this representative that we now heard – without script – almost presented the entire public health message before it comes. It's like Hello this week, which gives you the news before they happen -- we almost had a version of it in the hall. I should like to commend the representatives of this proposal. This will be for me – and I think the representatives will understand – some kind of heating for public health. A great deal of what is in this proposal will be reflected in the communication, but put into a broader whole, and I hope that it will be able to gather a broad majority. It is easy to agree with the importance of physical activity, but we also get into difficult target choices when it comes to individual choices, organisation, costs and, otherwise, the importance of a cost in this area compared to the effect we can get in other areas. I also think the representative Toppe's emphasis on nutrition was timely, because it has to be looked at in the context: what is it that works? The state of health in our country is good, and life is increasing. However, other countries have had greater increases — one of the tabloids had a look at it today. There's no goal to be at the top of that pallet, but it's interesting to see that it's not given that we're there -- we're in a 15th place. Negative trends relate to lifestyles such as: lack of physical activity. It is one of the five–six main risk factors for ill health and premature death in Norway — it is serious. That's right what Breen says: this is an important source of chronic disease and also mental distress. And we see clearly the social health differences. Not everyone has been involved in the development of wealth. We were in charge of this in Meld. St. 20 for 2006–2007, National Strategy to Balancing Social Health Differences. This is also one of the most important purposes of public health work. The representative gives a good description of the challenges we face in terms of living habits and physical activity. Unfortunately, the level of activity in the population is low and shows negative developments. A joyful increase in leisure training and exercise in some groups does not compensate for a severe decrease in everyday activity in most of us. When those of us who practice, don't practice, we sit still. And it's like -- and this is serious -- that no trends in society, neither in the way we work or move, facilitate sufficient physical activity. On the contrary, the counterpowers are strong. The fact that 15-year-old boys use 70 pst. An example of this is the time spent awake in front of the PC, on mobile and social media. That is why I share the representative's concern about the impact of low physical activity and standstills on disease development and health problems. I think we have to admit that we're part of not just a national, but a global trend. Turning such trends has proved to be very difficult. By that I mean that we should have courage, and a little optimism too, to say that we should be able to change on a development, and not fatalistically look at this happening. I'm concerned that little physical activity not only leads to obesity, but also muscle and skeletal disorders, and, as I said, it affects mental health. I refer to the big news coming in the spring session, and I also show that the government this spring is presenting big news in other policy areas relevant to the proposals of the representative. We have considered the proposals in our work on public health communication. It is based on our emphasis on universal welfare schemes and comprehensive Community solutions that can benefit everyone, and it strengthens state instruments and follows up principles enshrined in the Law on Public Health, which apply to municipalities and county municipalities. We will take action to meet the wave of non-infectious diseases, and actions will be addressed, among others. against underlying factors such as physical inactivity, unhealthy diet, tobacco use and harmful use of alcohol and drugs. The government proposes a public health policy that can meet the challenges of the 21st century, a policy that also prepares the basis for a long-term course to ensure greater awareness and commitment in all sectors in order to promote the living conditions, health and life cycle of the population. Such a message, of course, if we're capable and lucky, could be even better when it comes to the Bighold and gather a hopefully wide majority in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1879	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1882	The Health Minister has repeatedly stated, at the latest today and in yesterday's debate, that the Progress Party should only repair and not prevent. I would like to draw attention to the fact that there are several good proposals in this matter. But the Labour Party is going to vote against. Former health ministers – and the current one – have stated in several debates, no later than today that prevention is the best thing we can do – read the interaction reform. Does this mean that the Minister of Health and the Government have a new policy for today, and then a new one for tomorrow?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1887	I can assure you that we have good policies for every day, the whole year, and also for four new years, but when we come up with a comprehensive public health report in not many weeks, I think that's understanding that we're going to take the main steps there. I have said clearly here, and there are also representatives of the government parties, that we welcome many of the proposals from the representatives who have been promoted here. But I stand by what I said in yesterday's and today's debates: in the important areas of alcohol and tobacco, it is striking that the Progress Party is an emergence of good ideas for repair and the emergence of weak means of prevention. These are very concrete examples that we know lead to illness and suffering, so I think it's timely to point that out. It should not deprive the Progress Party of all praise and satisfaction if they will build up under general preventive public health policies, which we will have the opportunity to debate later in ours.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1894	Yes, the Christian People's Party's representative proposal on public health should be a warm-up proposal for a broader debate that we get through the government's public health report. And I'm glad the Council of State says we should show courage and optimism in the future. I agree with the comments made by the representative Kjersti Toppe that despite the fact that the municipalities have been significantly strengthened in the economy and more money has been given to swimming pools, we are unable to rehabilitate, and we are unable to keep more swimming pools open. When we know that swimming is important to our new countrymen, it is important because there is a sport where we meet without a number on the chest – we go there as families – is my question: How are we going to manage to get the swimming pools used without making a rehabilitation plan for it?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1901	Now, as representatives and speakers before me have said, this is a municipal responsibility. However, this has also been facilitated with many different objectives and funding. I share the concern expressed by the representative and others in this room regarding the swimming characteristics. It has to do with general equipment to meet life in our country, which has a long coast and many waters. We get more drowning accidents and other things that are very serious, so I think we have to have quite a broad effort on this. I don't think there's any way but to say that this is about the interaction between school, municipality, community and accessible swimming pool. I think all of us who have children experience that it's within this triangle that we can find good solutions. That's what the government will do in every way possible. It has a public health perspective, it has a sporting perspective, and it has a mastery perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1908	In the play of public health, the Council of State has said that he will also look at new approaches of an organisational nature, without being told anything more about them. Now, when I hear the Council of State's answer, my question is, Will the Council of State think about new steps in the sector we are now talking about? You talk about the interaction between municipalities, volunteering and school. Can you see – and believe – that there are such grips there, so that we get up the swimming skills, and so that even those who can swim can use their swimming skills to increase physical activity?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1913	I think I'll answer this a little in general, and say that these new grips I think should inspire our thinking about public health in the 21st century. We can set goals. We can adopt objectives and instruments in this room, but I think what's really going to have an effect is that we use all the good forces to achieve the goals of physical activity, good learning and, for example, local, close to where we live. school nutrition. It is about seeing that the municipalities, the individual schools and the individual communities are different, differently equipped. They also have a great resource in civil society, in volunteering. The way these cancers work together will vary. I think it's wrong to say that there's one way to do it, and one law that regulates it. I think it would be exciting to try out different ways of doing this. We do that by looking at the resources that are also here in the individual communities, where we can imagine that volunteers – the elderly, pensioners, sports teams, etc. – may be a resource for young people to swim, to contribute to the important work. Here, too, we could use alternative models.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1920	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e1938	The government is now finalising its proposal for a national transport plan, and in this context, it is high time to discuss which standard to use when building new roads in Norway. Over the past few weeks, we have seen a number of so-called leakages from proposals for a national transport plan. I was actually quite happy last week when we heard that the government was going to build a four-field road from Kristiansand to Lindesnes. It was a happy day. Had it been committee leader Hareide who had come with the good news, one might have thought it had come from above – when it came from the Center Party, I am a little insecure. I hope this is from the government, and I'm excited to see how to finance the expansion. Today, the State Road Service Manual and its requirements are to be used as a basis for the way the roads are to be looked. Among other things, the requirement to set up middle parts is that it should pass at least 8,000 cars per day on the journey. At the same time, the requirement for the construction of four-field roads is set at 12,000 cars per year. When roads are to be expanded and modernised, existing traffic is to be taken into account. In addition, expected traffic growth is added after 20 years. And if the road after 20 years is expected to have a traffic of more than 12,000 cars per day, it will be developed as a four-field road. But if the expected traffic is lower, the road will only be built up as a two-way road. This may be reasonable on the basis of the criteria underlying today, and if it were the case that the traffic forecasts that the Directorate of Road, the Department and the Government say the State Road Service should be based on were correct. Time and again, however, it turns out that the error was calculated heavily, and the forecasts that were taken into account were too low. As a result, many new roads are undersized from the time they are built. It is not just time and time again, but decades in decades where incorrect predictions have been taken into account. Examples are in line – E6 Eidetunnelen, which was opened in 1999. Already the year the road was opened, it turned out that the traffic figures were higher than they are to be in 2019, when the road is 20 years old. It indicates completely that this was a real record bomb. In my own home country, Telemark, it turned out that Grenlandsbrua, which was completed and opened in 1996, and which everyone in the State Road Service said was built to meet traffic growth over the next 50–60 years, had more traffic than the requirement of quadruple bridges. This means that when you are about to continue developing the E18, you have to build a new road next to the one that was built and finished through Porsgrund in 1996. We have to build a completely new border bridge, either with today's bridge or as a whole new bridge next to the existing one. Everyone understands that this is going to be much more expensive than it would have been to finish the bridge as a four-field bridge in 1996. Everyone who's here in the hall realizes that it's going to cost a lot more to build new bridges and tunnels as quadruple roads than it would have been to do it the time you built it. Then it's probably the way Assistant Road Director Lars Aksnes said to the Evening Post on April 11, 2011: «In the light of the postwar clock, one might say that we should perhaps have expanded the four-field road to a greater extent». It is very good that it is possible to admit that you have made mistakes, but then it may be time to stop a little to see if the methods we are using today, maybe have expired – and see how we are going to make sure that we do not continue to make the same mistakes over and over again. Unfortunately, it looks like you don't really want to take this into account, because it's still the same requirements that apply. The same way to calculate traffic growth is used. This happens despite the fact that calculations such as, among other things, The NHO has led Oslo Economics to perform, showing that the traffic figures on which the State Road Service provided proposed the extension of the route Search-Algård as a two-field road is much lower than the actual traffic figures. Oslo Eonomics’ traffic figures show that only in the last seven years, traffic growth has increased by 50 p.m., and the analysis suggests that four-field roads should be built throughout the route. Of course, it will mean that there won't be enough traffic on the entire route, but the E39 is the main trajectory between Kristiansand and Stavanger. I believe – and hope – that this is why the Council of State will see that these are conditions that make it necessary to develop the core road network with a standard that is very similar to the whole route. I therefore hope that during this debate the Council of State will clarify whether it will continue to make the same mistakes as we did in Norway both in the 1960s, in the 1970s and, not least, in the 1980s. In fact, we also do it in the 2000s – when we build roads with narrow road shoulders, building roads that are not dimensioned to meet future traffic growth. We only have many examples in this period and the previous one. According to former State Councillor Meltveit Kleppa, we have not managed to build as much roadway with middle parts as, for example. Sweden’s neighbouring country has done – precisely because we didn’t think as long-term as ‘sweet brother’, by having wide road shoulders and by being able to take advantage of them when it was necessary to build up roads and establish middle parts to reduce accidents. I therefore want to challenge the Council of State with some specific questions that I hope we can get answers to during this debate: – Does the Council of State think it makes sense to build new roads with scarce capacity, and is this good economy for society as a whole? – Do the Council of State agree that all parts of the core road network should have the same standard? – What has been done to make the annual forecast based more reliable? Is it the Ministry of Finance that continues to forecast expected growth, or is it perhaps more likely that the experts in the Directorate of Roads will be included when new forecasts are to be made? – How do you take into account that traffic growth is very different in different parts of the country? – What is done to make sure that you are less square when determining the standard on the road network? – Why not take more account of the rush hour traffic or traffic peaks when developing new roads? It is important to bear in mind that today’s way of calculating ÅDT, daily traffic, covers parts of the traffic load that you see on a route because it does not take into account the fact that some roads during periods have much higher traffic than is normal, for example: Trysilvegen. Trysil has a huge difference in traffic from a summer day versus when it is now soon Easter emigration, and everyone is going on the mountain or on his way to the cabin. This is also the situation that should have been taken into account when expanding new roads, actually seeing that there are different conditions than just ÅDT, which is an average of the whole year. You actually have to look at when the traffic is bigger. I want to challenge the Council of State, because in my own municipality there is a big discussion about building a four-field road with 23 meters or 20 meters of road width. All the recommendations of the NCC, which is one of the providers providing services on the road, say that it would be stupid to build 20 meters and not 23 meters because they save a lot on operating costs. We also know that the ÅDT is slightly above 12 000 in 20 years when the road is finished. But on some summer days, there are already more than 20,000 cars running on the same road. It shows that we have to stop just being concerned with what the State Road Service's manuals and criteria say, and actually see what makes sense. It's about seeing distances as a whole. I'm glad it looked like there was a light coming up for someone in the Center Party a week ago. It was just so bad that it stopped in Lindesnes because we need the full four-field road all the way to Stavanger.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2003	First, for the sake of order, let me say that what was published in the case of KVU and KS1 for Sägne–Ålgård last week was not a leak of any kind, but rather a finished KS1 in the government, and it is to be published. And it was published. In this KS1, the government has chosen to go further with what we call the mutilation plant concept, which is based on recommendations both from the State Road Service, and also from what external quality insurers have done in terms of recommendations related to the further planning of the route. It is the road standards that underpin the choice of standard for the development of roads. Road standards are professionally justified. The standard requirements for road standards are determined on the basis of a number of factors, such as construction costs, lifetime costs, land use interventions, environment, road safety, traffic management in the normal situation and traffic management in the event of incidents and when road work is involved. In current road standards, the distinction between two-field road with pass-by and centre-carrier and four-field road is made at an ÅDT of 12000 vehicles in the forecast year, which is 20 years after the expected opening of the road. As far as road safety is concerned, the four-field road with pass-by fields and secondary works is approximately equivalent to that traffic figure, i.e. around 12000 vehicles. In the case of traffic winding-up, the road standard S5 with secondary works usually works well also at an ÅDT of more than 12000 vehicles. Some queue problems may occur when ÅDT exceeds 15 000 vehicles. Significant cooling problems first arise at an ÅDT of more than 20 000 vehicles. The current ÅDT limit for the four-field road would thus be rather robust even if traffic growth were to be slightly higher than the forecasts from the State Road Service. The cost of construction of four-field roads is significantly higher than that of two-field roads with pass-by fields and mid-driving works. This is not only due to greater road width, it is also due to the introduction of rigidity of line, wider bridges, longer cross bridges and a number of other conditions. Therefore, a lower entry point for four-field road requirements would result in significantly higher investment costs without significantly increasing the benefits. This is not a socially efficient use of means of transport. I and the government are therefore not prepared to review the professional advice and lower the entry point for the four-field road requirements. The representative Hoksrud refers to the selection of the standard on E39 on the route Search-Aelgård. The State Road Service has developed a concept selection investigation, KVU, for this route, and it is externally quality-secured through a so-called KS1. Both the State Road Service and the external quality assurance system have, based on current traffic forecasts and road standards, recommended four-field road between Search and Vigeland and two-field road with pass-by fields and mid-driving on the route further west to Ålgård. This is referred to as the so-called mid-station concept, which is then also supported by the government. Several alternative concepts were considered, including the development of four-field roads throughout the route. However, the assessment by the road authorities and external quality insurers was that the extra costs of a four-field concept were significant without correspondingly greater societal benefits. The government has discussed the matter, and, as I said, we recently concluded that further planning should be based on the midpoint concept. The amount of heavy traffic is one of the factors that will affect the extent of the pass-by field on the route towards Ålgård. On behalf of the NHO, Oslo Economics has produced a report on the success of traffic forecasts. The representative of Hoksrud seems to believe that the report states that the government has miscalculated the calculated traffic growth of E39 between Kristiansand and Stavanger. This isn't right. Oslo Economics has not produced its own traffic forecasts, nor have they assessed the professional basis of the State Road Service forecasts. On the other hand, Oslo Economics has assessed expected traffic growth compared to actual traffic growth in recent years. During this period there has been particularly high traffic growth on the E39 between Kristiansand and Stavanger. Annual growth has varied from just under 3 pst. to a little over 5 pst. If that growth were to continue over the next 25-30 years, and you made a clean projection, the traffic in the forecast year would be significantly higher than the forecasts of the State Road Service. However, based on the population projections of the SSB and on economic forecasts from the Ministry of Finance, the State Road Administration has taken on the basis of an annual traffic growth of about 1,5-2 pst. The representative of Hoksrud believes that there is already a need for a six-field road on E6 Oslo – Sweden and E39 Sandnes – Stavanger. We do not have provisions on the six-field road impact point in road normals. However, the ODD of 50000 vehicles may be used as an indicative point of impact. ODD on E6 near Moss is currently on about 35,000 vehicles. At E6 otherwise in Eastfold, the ÅDT is much lower than that. At Stavanger, the problem is a little different than in Eastfold. Towards cities, a balanced capacity should be based on the objective set out in the Climate Action Communication to take up the growth of passenger transport in the metropolitan areas of public transport, by-pass and by-pass. It is also necessary to consider what the transport system as such and the environment can withstand. Balanced capacity means that the access roads should be dimensioned according to the number of cars the system and its surroundings can withstand further towards the centre and on the basis of the objective desired for distribution between car traffic and other modes of transport. As I said, the government has chosen the concept of further planning on the route Search-Aelgård. We believe that there is a robust solution based on the forecasts of the State Road Service for ÅDT on the route. There are varying ÅDT on the route. We do not see it as possible to dimension road development in Norway from the peaks in traffic, for example. from holiday settlement or weekend exit. This would mean a significant over-dimensioning of Norwegian roads. A certain consideration may be given to it on some heavily tourist-traffic roads, but it cannot be decisive for their forecasting and forecasting. It is such that there is a great need for the field of transportation around the country. If one now chose to over-dimension some sections, and then with little social benefits in return, it would have to mean that you have to prioritize some other sections, or not extend other sections that also need to be developed. In isolation, but also overall, it will be a poor use of the total means of transport available.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2029	For those in this hall, or outside this hall, who don't understand what ÅDT is: it's annual traffic. That again means the number of cars that pass on a road in a day.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2032	Then it's just to note that the council didn't answer a lot of my questions. I know very well that the government is laying down the road standards and indicates that they are professionally justified. But I record that when it's only been a political will to do something else, you're not as concerned with the professional reasons of the government. I'm very happy that the government does that, even though they say that they always rely on the professional reasons. I am glad that they actually sometimes choose a better standard, despite the traffic forecasts saying you shouldn't do it. I would like to remind the Council of State of something – I thought that when you get back to the office, you might want to pick up the evening post from Monday 11 April 2011 on Norwegian road construction, based on wrong figures, which clearly demonstrates that we have also built a number of road sections in this country with too low forecasts. That means building too bad a road and having great consequences in the future. I want to go back to the border bridge, which I know very well. It would probably cost somewhere between 100 and 150 million more if you built a four-field road that was completed in 1996. I think everyone who sits in this room – if anyone comes along with it – knows that it's going to cost more than $100 million extra. When you know what it has cost in traffic problems, and what it has cost for people who have been in line, especially in summer time and in all our weekend exits and harvest because it is a two-field road and not a four-field road, you know that there are very big problems there. Then it's nice that the council doesn't want to talk about this. I think it is important that we now start discussing whether we should continue to make the mistakes we have made before. When the Council of State admits that if the forecasts for the E39 look like the Oslo Economics plan, and we know that there is a Klondike vote in West Agder and in Rogaland, there will be more traffic growth on the E39, and it's likely to be much higher than what's at stake now. Nevertheless, the Council of State and the government choose to build a road for the past and not a real road for the future. I'm very pleased that there will be a four-field road to Lindesnes, but I believe that if you had really been forward-looking, you would have built a full four-field road from Kristiansand to Stavanger.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2039	It is a little difficult to understand that the representative Hoksrud believes that I do not want to talk about this. Obviously, I want to talk about this – I have just had a ten-minute post about it, and I'd like to talk a little bit more. It is true that Oslo Economics is not the trades union in this area, and they have not produced a forecast. They have made a clean statement of the figures, while the State Road Service has a forecast tool that is used in a slightly different way. Therefore, they also have a different assessment of what will be the total growth in the years to come. It is such that the seas if there can be some discretion related to what I mentioned in my main post in relation to tourist traffic on some roads, then the road standards must lie there, as the broad basis for the decisions taken. That doesn't mean there's no flexibility in the system. It is clear that on the route we are now talking about, namely Søgne–Ålgård, the tunnels will be planned for two runs, so that you have the opportunity to extend to two tunnels at the time you think it is necessary. So there's flexibility in the system. But what one can't do when one actually sees the big needs that are around the country, and one should prioritize the means, is to dimension out of an overcapacity. You can't do that. It is part of the route Ålgård-Segne that needs four fields, and the whole route needs a mid pull. That's what the government is adding up to. It is also such that a continuous assessment can be made as to whether it is part of the route that needs to be re-assessed. But so far it would have been an over-dimension if the entire distance were to have a four-field road. There is not very much difference in road safety between a mid-station concept, as the government goes in front of it, and a four-field road. In the case of Bamble, which was also mentioned as an example, and which has an annual traffic of approx. 14 000 in 2040, it is clear that there are assessments that need to be made. What is crucial is to put in place a mid pulley and a soft side area. Traffic safety will not mean much more if you get a four-field road. A four-field road with a width of 23 metres would in reality have marginal effects, both in road safety and probably also in capacity. There are considerations to take into account when making the overall resource balances in the transport sector, both in the South, in Telemark and in all other parts of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2050	First, I would like to thank the interpellant for raising the debate and for giving us the opportunity to discuss what underpins the road types we are building today. Like the representative Hoksrud, I am concerned with the ÅDT requirements and road standards, but my starting point is probably somewhat different from that of interpellanten. With regard to the report to which the interpellant referred from Oslo Economics on order from the NHO, I refer to the Council of State's response. In the case of E39 Sägne–Ålgård, I also refer to the Council of State's response, which she was in the context of her contribution, where the government presented its draft choice for Sägne–Ålgård. It is the so-called mid-drawing plant concept: two fields with a pass-by field and the possibility of a later extension. This shows that, in some areas, it is decided to go beyond what is recommended by road standards in some areas, and that is in line with what the external quality assurance recommends. Now I'm not going to go further into a discussion about E39 – I see from the list of speakers that there are a lot of people who are going to do after me. I would rather take the general question in the interpellation: Should we lower the ÅDT requirements for when to build the four-field road? My vision is definitely no. The road standard operates today with an ÅDT of 12,000 cars to trigger the construction of four-field roads. There has been a lot of talk about Swedish excellence on the road lately. In Sweden, the ÅDT needs to be significantly higher before it is considered necessary to build four-field roads. There you have to have almost twice the Norwegian ÅDT border before building four-field roads. And then we're going to discuss whether to lower the ÅTD requirements further. Get it! Get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get For us in the Workers' Party, it is important to get as much roadway and road safety as possible again for the money we have at our disposal. When, as the Progress Party, you have your own economic reality, or when, as the Right, you want to buy the way on animal pay and leave the payment to the future and to our kids, also called OPS, you can of course afford to promise four-field highways across the country. We're both taking economic reality inwards, and we're going to have to pay bills for what we're doing, we're going to have to give priority to how we're going to spend the money we have at our disposal. Therefore, we believe it is more important to build 2+1 roads with a mid pulley and two-field roads with pass-by fields with a mid pulley. They do this on a large scale in Sweden. The Swedes have built a lot of 2+1 roads with a mid pull, weighing up to 15 000 ÅDT. At the same time, it turns out that these roads finely tackle traffic of more than 20 000 ÅDT. Studies from VTI in Sweden also show that the accident risk is higher on the narrow four-field roads they have built than on the 2+1 roads, and they have the same low risk as the fully quadrupled four-field motorways. Interpellanten and I were both present at the No Front Collisions Conference this Friday and were told there about the latest thing they are doing in this area in the neighbouring country when it comes to building a non-conference road. Now they are rebuilding their nine-meter-wide two-field roads with middle parts with pass-by fields where it is practically possible to obtain it and refer to preliminary good experience. Rather than lowering the requirements for when we are going to build a quadruple road, I believe that we should build a two-plus road or a one-plus road with a middle part with a pass-by field when we are going to rust up our highways. They will have long-term capacity to take a lot of traffic between cities and our parts of the country. Experience in Sweden shows that these roads are more traffic-proof than narrow four-field roads, which are also an alternative that we build in Norway. For the sake of order, I would like to close my post by remembering that road safety is much more than a mid pull, two-, three- or four-way. Traffic safety is the sum of all actions undertaken, and for us in the Workers' Party, it is important to rely on knowledge of what works best in road safety. That is why we agree to a mid puller on both two-field roads and three-field roads and are positively set to lower the requirement of the ÅDT for a mid puller to 6000 in the first run on two- and three-field roads. That's why we're very much in favour of increased control activities, we're in favour of more photo boxes, and we're in favour of more distance ATK. That is why we are in order to strengthen driver training, we have introduced traffic as an electoral profession in high school since the fall of the year, and we want more traffic training in school and kindergarten. This is to mention some important road safety measures. Because it is important to remember that this is how far we actually succeed in road safety work – 147 killed on Norwegian roads last year are 147 too many, but still the lowest figure since 1950. The number of deaths in the last 12 months — from February to February — is 140 and, according to the Road Directorate, is the world’s best in terms of population. Therefore, we will continue to be knowledge-based in our approach, we must do what works best first to reduce road safety risks, and we will give proper priority within the economic framework that we actually have at our disposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2067	I record that many of those who speak from this pulpit, almost never have driven this way. I know this way through 23 years of morning, dinner and evening. When someone manages to say that the middle part with a two-way path, the middle part with a two-loop, will fix the road, it is simply a fault. We have on the route between Kristiansand and Mandal today a road that is sometimes closed for three and four hours. The trailer traffic that comes inwards the port area of Kristiansand and runs westwards has problems mostly every day, especially when there is snow. Where is the security with regard to the police, where is the safety with regard to fire, where is the safety with regard to the ambulance? It doesn't exist. Then we're told that the government is now adding up to get four fields to Lindesnes. Well and well, but the other parties, apart from the Progress Party, are also very busy planning four fields from Lindesnes to Stavanger, but only the Progress Party will build four fields from Kristiansand to Stavanger. My question is, why in the world can't the government parties see that something is happening even after Lindesne's municipality? The figures that are taken into account are standards for the whole country. These include: not take account of tourist traffic from Rogaland and south of the weekends. Tourist traffic in South Africa in the summer has not been taken into account. No account has been taken of the number of combinations of vehicles which are currently approx. 30 pst. We have a topography with deep valleys and high peaks up to approx. Egersund in Rogaland. Then you have to ask yourself what it really is that the government doesn't see that E39 is a way of death. Could it be that the last three central government councils have been Navarsette from Sogn and Fjordane, Meltveit Kleppa from Rogaland, and now Arnstad from Trøndelag? Could that be the reason why the government is now going out and saying they're going to have a ferry-free Stavanger-Trondheim? It shall not be such that the country of residence of each State Council shall reflect the priority given to road construction. It's the need to control where a builder builds a road. When we now build four fields from Kristiansand, we build for the future. Why shouldn't that way then go further west past Lindesnes, past Lvgal, past Fehkefjord and into Rogaland? I don't think State Council Arnstad knows this distance when you're talking about facilitating two runs in the tunnel. In view of the trajectory that exists today on the E39 and what kind of mountain you have, for example. in the area around Moi, what should one do when one first maybe plans a whole new trajectory, why should one not then build four fields? The cost of the mid-drawing works concept is stipulated at 18 billion. kr. Four fields until Stavanger is scheduled for 30 billion. kr. There's a difference of 12 billion. kr. Is it not worth doing it now, for the 12 billion? kr will be eaten regardless of when to go back and rebuild to the four-field road about – what do I know – 20-30 years? That's what scares me, not just as a southerner, not just as a big-ass representative, but as a common citizen of the South. We don't want another one killed that way – enough is enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2084	I hear that the government's parties are talking hot for a mid pull and two-plus-a-field roads with varying pass-by possibilities. Yes, it was also the review melody when we talked about traffic safety four years ago in view of the roll-out of the national transport plan in the year that is now going out. When the government first promised 750 km in the middle of ten years, they greatly reduced this and later came back and said 250 km in the first four years. The result is 67 km. I guess the willingness to build a parking lot is not quite there. When we remember this sometimes from this pulpit, we've always heard that there are other things that are important in order to bring down the traffic accidents. Of course it is, and we're going to talk about that too, but today we're talking about a special road calculation, and whether it's right to build a four-field road, because this is a stretch that has a lot of accidents. We also see that on the E39 further northwards. It's actually a little bit like that that after we've got four-field roads on the worst-accident sections of the country before, the E39 is now one of the worst accident routes we've ever had in fatal accidents right as it is. Not many days ago, it was a new fatal accident. I must say that I disagree with the Council of State's rejection of the idea of taking into account seasonal traffic and daily traffic. At least it is not possible to blindly reject it and refer only to average traffic. We don't do that in any other planning, we take into account that it's going to be tops. Either we dimension ferries or we dimension passengers on buses or trains, we take into account that there will be peaks. In this case, on this distance, it's almost guaranteed that you build an too low standard. It surprises me that it has not been seen that this is a region in the country that is growing much faster than other regions, with an economic development that, with a better path, will also increase mobility and traffic along this road. In addition, this government has just had a leak from the National Transport Plan, where they promise us the Rogfast link, which is thus an underwater road tunnel linking North and South Rogaland, which will certainly also increase traffic on the E39 south of Stavanger. These are predictions that are interesting, these are things that should be put in when assessing such sections of the road. I also think that we should take a closer look at road standards – which are always drawn out as the closest cut in stone – having a somewhat more nuanced relationship with them, and have a variety of tools that can be used on the different routes. In our alternative road safety plan, we have arranged for us to go as far as 4000 ODD on some road-hazardous routes, and it is also on the advice of the organisations that is responsible for road safety. We even believe that although the Swedish have a higher ÅDT entry than us, we have a completely different topography in Norway. Therefore, we should also consider whether we should not also use a lower four-field entry, actually down to 8 000 ÅDT, but then build a simpler type of four-field road, like the one we have now built from Klöfta towards Kongsvinger. It's a success stretch – we should do more of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2101	It's interesting to hear the well-known tones of the Right, where a squatter prevents the government from doing that, and they should do it, build out more because we grow faster, here we have to have more fields, 8 000 instead of what we now have, the topography of Norway, etc., etc. So I think, well, the right has enough money to do this, they've probably put this development they're here talking about, into their budget. Well, then it would have been okay. But that's what they don't have – they're standing here complaining about a government that doesn't do enough, but they don't do anything for themselves. Or, there's nothing wrong with saying -- it's more than a millimeter they want to build; they'll actually build 2.3 kilometers more roads than government. Then you might ask yourself, ‘ Is it right when the Advance Party calls Right’s talk a hoax? ’ I must at least ask that when it was said on the Dagsrevy yesterday that the Right is bluffing about the road. It's a bit of that feeling that you get here too, that right-wing sympathizes and complains about the red-green government, but they have no solutions themselves, except for this sibling and the complaint – because they don't have any other policy. So that's it. Then one also has to ask: the progress party usually has unlimited resources for most, and does not prioritize transport solutions – they prioritise the theme that is on the agenda, whether it is flight, road, boat or track. Hoksrud would like to say something about the speeches they're making in their 2013 budget: they're doing well with just over 11 billion. kr more than the government. But then they haven't budgeted for the 9 billion tolls. kr. Well, they're just going to have an increase of 2.6 billion. on the road sector. Then a selection will not look much better than the one that was misjudged yesterday, i.e. the future government friends in the right. So I understand that the Progress Party has gone away from Albania. I don't know if it has anything to do with people renting cars in Albania not getting their insurance cars because they can't run on the roads, except the main roads. But now the Progress Party is back on track again, because they think the Swedes are doing things so much faster and better. But there's a difference. I heard the Prime Minister today said in a meeting in Norway: How many tunnels do they have in Sweden on the highways? Yes, 200. How many tunnels do we have in Norway on our roads? Yes, 1 200. So there are certain things that are different in Sweden and Norway, when one thinks that everything is so much better in Sweden. But you can try with the Swedish example, which is a little better than the Albanian example, which you have run with before. So to what I've been dealing with already: Do any modes of transport take precedence over others? When one listens to the representative Åse Michaelsen from Sørlanden trying with the trick to decipher the central party councils that do not come from the region, and uses Meltveit Kleppa as an example from Rogaland, which will have some of the three-field section of the E39, it must have a pretty significant bomb. So it's not about taking the growth of traffic in other ways. If SV had managed this alone, we probably wouldn't have gone too far as the government is now going – we had gone to prioritize double-track rail. That's what all the politicians are talking about, that we should move transport from road to sea and track, but we don't do that if we don't bet on the railway. It is also not possible to bet properly on the railway in this area. It would have been the future, it would have reduced traffic accidents on the roads, which one obviously is concerned with in the Progress Party, except when it's up to doing things against speed and things that work. We had a debate here last Thursday on the protection of food soils, a high-rise initiative supported by the Center Party and SV. If you want to protect the most foodable soil, you need to build the narrowest possible road and the most possible railway. Then a food soil protects, and then one can increase food production. So the Right is bluffing, but the Progress Party also doesn't have the best solutions here.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2121	It's always interesting to sit and listen to debates in Stortinget. I'm close to Sweden, I have three miles to the Swedish border. For those who believe that everything is very well on the Swedish side: it probably isn't like that either. But they have an advantage; they have a completely different geography than what we have. They don't have the fjords, they don't have the mountains -- they don't have the big challenges we have in it. Norway is also very different. I'm left with some questions. I think, are we just going to build for the traffic peaks? Shall we build to get more goods on track and cool? Are we to ensure that road safety is something more than just a four-field road? If the answers to that are yes, we have to do something more and other than just build the four-field road, even the six-field road, which is addressed here. As the Council of State briefed on, costs increase significantly by building the solutions outlined here. After the view of the Center Party, it's important that we get good development across the country. It's a paradox that I want to stay a little bit. I often record in the debates that in particular some of the opposition parties are very concerned about releasing the State Road Service and the other transport modes, they argue that they should do their priorities on a professional basis, and that we politicians should not interfere so much. When I then reflect on the questions and debates we have here, and the interview debate we have now, I record that those who ask the most questions about the choice of solutions that the professional agencies have made, are the parties that want to release, for example. State Road Service. It beats me like a big paradox. I think we need to have some assessments of how we're going to solve the challenges that are in the country and that are very different. Like the representative Bratli, I am concerned that we need to give priority. We need to ensure good collective solutions in cities, we need to ensure walking and cycling, we need good train solutions, and we need to ensure value creation and future opportunities across the country by building good roads. In addition, we need to build up more on the port side, we need to make sure that more goods are cooled, and then we need to give priority. Then you have to have something at the bottom that makes it possible to prioritize this. That is why we have listened and listened to what the State Road Administration has recommended and which is quality assured in the examples to which this is referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2132	There are two things that are important for the development of the E39. One is about road safety, and the other is about the needs of the region in terms of economic development and value creation. Let me first use a few words to say that this is urgent, before I go into the premise of the interpellation. Our region has once again been affected by serious accidents. While other regions can see that this number goes down, we read weekly about serious accidents on our roads. This weekend we experienced that 5 cm of snow paralysed the road because of unspoiled trailers that came from Europe and were going on into the country and that couldn't get off the farm. From 2001 to 2011, almost 50 people have been killed on these roads, and we know that numbers have increased since 2011. So my first message is: This way we're talking about, Search-Aelgård, hurry. Then I have to come up with some of the concepts used in the debate. We have a region with a business life that goes down. We have an adventurous growth that doesn't seem to be short-lived. So what the representative of Langeland calls complaint and sewing, in South Africa, will be perceived as seeing the enormous, amazing growth of this region, and the needs we have in our region to get better infrastructure for business. When the Council of State talks about the holiday people, and we can't oversized by them, the holiday people in the South are actually not just a leisure activity, but it's value creation and nutrition. Have we heard of the Animal Park, which attracts people? It's not just about leisure time, and that we have to keep in line when we're on vacation, it's about a basic food and value creation base for our region. What we're asking for is that it's going to look at the growth that we actually have. When the Council of State then says that there is an opportunity to use a discretion, our region wants it not to be called oversized, but we want respect for the actual growth we see on our roads. It is that the forecasts of economic growth for our region are also adventurous. We have a business that has managed to set up, to take a technological development and deliver things that society and the world need. Everything suggests that the growth we've seen is going to continue forward. This region is going to grow, so we are asking that you see – not just counting ÅDT and average traffic – and respect the actual growth, and that this would have resulted in a greater dimensioning of the road that will go from Search to Eelgård. It was said that we can't use an overdimension, because it wouldn't be worth it. Let me end by saying, Is it worth it? In my view, the South is worth it because of the growth that we as a region have managed to create together, and that we soon demand to be recognised for even here. So I expect it to be made a greater judgement in terms of this road section than it seems to be done by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2147	The premise for this interpellation is probably strictly national and principal, but I figured it would also be an E39 debate. So I'll say a little bit about both. All first to the more superior. There is no doubt that this government has greatly increased the appropriations for transport, so it has been said. But all policies are also about prioritizing, and one will always have limited resources, no matter how much one might use. It'll probably always be like that. It's probably particularly painful to the right over the last 24 hours, where you've been told that 2.3 km is the right side of the government's plan, which is an extra 120 m per county if you're going to break it down at the county level. If you choose to combine the Right Party and the Advance Party's policy in this area, it's going to be wrong, because then it's going to be the state going to take the bill with the credit card. It becomes expensive, and probably in the long run less traffic and less road out of such a policy. Then to the South. I'm very pleased with that commitment. I fully share the commitment that we Southerners have for the development of important infrastructure – especially the road – it is E18 Tvedesstrand-Arendal, rv. 9 up Seatsdal and E39 Search – Ålgård. I think the most important thing this government has said and has been very clear is that we need a new E39, given the challenges from, among other things. The representatives Michaelsen and Eriksen. It's precisely because one sees that E39 today is not good enough that one says that one needs a new non-meeting E39. On large parts of it, a four-field area is needed, and it is important that one opens – not closes the door – for a future four-field road. It's important to say, one has not closed the door. I have to say that I belong enough to those who share Eriksen's and Michaelsen's views that this road is special in terms of growth in business, growth in traffic and growth in the population, but not least in terms of winter conditions and heavy transport, which makes it very fast. That's why I think it's important to keep that door open, look a little bit special on the conditions of that road, but we might not have to do that right now. The most important thing is that you finish planning, get started, get speed up on the road construction, and I'm absolutely sure we're doing with today's government. When one sees the development of the appropriations we have taken on transport, the population of the South can see the time in which it is likely to meet, both in the case of E18 Tvedestrand-Arendal, rv. 9 and E39.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2160	I think I would say that it's probably none of us who live in the South, or for that matter none of those who use E39 in the South, who understand why there's a two-field road built on a stretch where the traffic increases as fast as it does here – or I could say that you might have to be red-green to see it. If you drive into one of the rest areas, for example: Flekkefjord to take a rest and a small bite of food, it is fascinating to see how many cars pass. It would have been a gold mine to sit there as a child and write the car number. So many cars are the ones that pass by. That being said, it is not just passenger cars that operate this and other routes in Norway. There are also heaps of heavy-duty vehicles, both with and without hangers, that thunder past. It has made me wonder how the daily traffic is measured. If you place a trailer with a trailer on the road, there are many cars on the road – not only in length but also in weight. So counting a trailer with a trailer on the same line with a little Fiat 500, which I have, becomes very strange to me. There is no doubt that my little Fiat does not burden the road in any particular way in relation to the trails. Therefore, I believe it would be wrong to equate a small Fiat 500 – with a lady in – with large, long and heavy vehicles – with e.g. 20 tonnes of cargo – when counting annual traffic. There's a lot of heavy traffic going on across Norway. When the roads are small, narrow and swinging, it is both road dangerous, environmentally unfriendly and uncomfortable to get behind or meet a trailer. A major road in Norway should be built for the future, and then there is only a four-field road between the major cities in question. It will do a lot for the working environment for our trailer drivers if they have environmentally friendly or work-friendly roads to run on. These drivers are doing a job we are totally dependent on, and they deserve a better working environment at their job than they have today. When the Council of State says that she will not do anything to lower road standards in terms of annual traffic, I hope the Council of State will consider another way of counting vehicles, so that the roads are made with such a standard that we are not ashamed when our children and grandchildren grow up and ask what we thought about when we built the roads that we did. A car is not just a car, a car is everything from my little Fiat to a large semi-trailer, and it should be just as safe to drive on the road for both – also on Norwegian roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2179	This debate is necessary. It is necessary not only because Norway is building too little new road, but unfortunately we are also building a new road that is under-dimensioned to the traffic we know to be coming. The discussion on annual daily traffic – ÅDT – as a dimensional basis for new roads has two main tracks. Firstly, we should actually build roads that are oversized in relation to possible traffic developments. We should do that simply because it is safe to build a road with good capacity. The capacity dimensiones the safety of users. In particular, we should do this in major shipping lanes and in the European roads. In particular, we should do this when there are major variations behind the ÅDT, which are average numbers – traffic variations over the hours of the day and the months of the year. I refer to the report that the interpellant also mentioned, from June 2012, that the NHO had carried out by Oslo Economics, on monitoring the success of traffic forecasts. The report shows that congestion in rush time is the leading factor in the choice of road dimensioning in Sweden. It is possible to get good experience and good lessons from Sweden. Unfortunately, we have many examples that we still don't. We have a fresh toll case from Stortinget that concerned the development of E6 Ringebu-Otta. A two-field road is built with a mid pulley. The project comprises two tunnels planned for two runs. The first cycle is built with an enhanced mid-note. The second run is assumed to be finished when the ÅDT through the tunnel is 8000. I have my doubts as to whether that will happen, but I am not in doubt that this is an old-fashioned way of building a new European road. My challenge to the Council of State is: what is being done to practice the daily requirement more flexibly than you are doing now? The second main track is that we should build roads that are not undersized. The estimates for future economic growth in transport models are taken from the Ministry of Finance's perspective report, and I would like to remind you that a new such communication is now being dealt with in Stortinget. On the dimensioning, Director Lars Aksnes of the Road Directorate said to the Evening Post in April 2011: «In retrospect, I can say that we calculated it too low... In the light of the postwar clock, one might say that we should perhaps have expanded the four-field road to a greater extent, but it was not willing to do so.» The challenge to the Council of State is: What will be done to ensure safer traffic forecasts when new roads are planned? What is being done to ensure that at least it is the department and the directorate that professionally dimension traffic growth and not the Ministry of Finance? There's a huge disparity across the country in terms of traffic growth. Traffic growth on e.g. The E39 of the West is much larger than on roads in the rest of the country. And the project team that plans the free E39, for example, has shown that when we get free passages in Rogaland and Hordaland, traffic will be four times larger than today in 20 years. The Council of State itself believes that traffic growth is greater than expected. She says to Today's Business 27 September 2012 just that. And she goes on to say, ‘I agree that the models are too simple... In addition, traffic growth has been greater than we expected, and there may have been an under-assessment here’. These are views shared by the Progress Party. The remaining question, which is unanswered, is what has been done to ensure that traffic forecasts are actually more accurate. The last thing I want to refer to is a letter that is an answer to a question dated March 18. I have asked for a presentation showing completed road projects in the years 2005-2009 with planned and actual traffic developments in the years 2011 to 2012. It will give a reading of whether the forecasts have improved. It is quite surprising that this is difficult and labor-intensive to get hold of. When the Directorate of Road has to spend at least one month doing this, this suggests that the control of forecasts and improvements in forecasts has not improved. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2215	The representative of Sjelmo Nordås addressed the problem in relation to Sweden and considered that they had much easier topography to build. The representative is very right about that. It is not that they are without mountains in Sweden either. Regardless of whether the country is called Sweden, Finland or Russia, when one comes from the road standard there to a European road in Norway, there is little doubt that this standard is of much better quality than it is in Norway. What the representative did not raise is that Sweden has been in debt abroad for a long time, while Norway is in a situation where we have 4000 billion. We can build infrastructure for. The representative of Langeland noted that we have so many tunnels in Norway. I guess it's not so nice that we have a lot of tunnels in Norway. If we were to take Breviksbrua and the tunnels built there as an example, we would have to imagine a hundred-year perspective. The first bridge and the first tunnels came in 1960, and new bridges and new tunnels came in the 1990s. Today, the capacity is detonated. There will have to be new bridges and new tunnels in the 2020 and 2030s. If you continue to base what this government is doing on dimensioning, you have to build new bridges and new tunnels in the 2060s and 2070s. Then it is not so strange that we get many bridges and tunnels in Norway when using this recipe. It is a paradox that the transparency of the glass ball for future forecasts and use of Norwegian roads is almost completely absent, and I believe that in fact it is very irresponsible. Our task as responsible politicians is to build roads for the future, and not, as in many cases today, build roads for the past. In this way, the Council of State may be allowed to continue to problematise on different standards used by different actors. That derailment – that is, does not prevent this government from continuing to undermine the development of our roads. On the other hand, when we talk about traffic and our roads, you build two, three and four roads on many routes, and you hope and believe that you will have a smooth flow of traffic. All you create is, as everyone understands, bottlenecks and cork by choosing this type of solution. If someone believes that this helps to promote road safety, it is also completely misunderstood and wrong. As the government and the state council argue today, it seems to me that building for the future is also going to be misunderstood and wrong. It is no wonder that more and more people want a change for the autumn, because if we are going to build what we have done and do today, it goes without saying that it is useless to build ourselves out of the rat trap in which we have landed. Taking growth forecasts, it is also known that in parts of Norway there will be a trend that suggests that it will be produced four to five times the volume produced today. Then you have to think about the future and not, like this government does, think about the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2228	I took the floor in the debate because I heard the representative of Langeland from the pulpit talking about the right hand push. It was all wrong what the representative of Langeland said, and then it's important to fix it. In our alternative budgets, the right has granted 4.3 billion. kr more than the government of a mint. So when the representative of Langeland says that we haven't given more money to a mint than the government, it's wrong. This week attempts were made to manufacture it as if the Right would only have built 2.3 km more motorway than the Government in 2013. That's not right. On the other hand, it's a bad attempt to reverse the problem on your head. That's just how the road construction in the right will go away, because we see that it takes too long, and we see that it's going to be a lot more expensive. We want to take out the entire sections of our own projects. That's why I have to repeat it now, to make sure that there's no reason for misunderstanding, and that everyone here in the room knows what the Right has actually suggested: it's wrong if someone still tries to present it as if we were building 2.3 kilometers of road with our alternative budgets. In the budget, there was a rewriting of budget lines that would only go to 70 km of road with central works. We have never done in our budgets this clumsy highway construction that our opponents interpret into the budgets, to which yesterday reference was made, among other things. in a daily revision broadcast on the NRK. You're free to interpret, but it's okay to deal with the facts when you go so hard and present the politics of the other parties. In the case of motorway projects and large, comprehensive projects, we have made every year proposals to lift projects such as our own project-funded projects, which would have been either completed or well underway if we had received support for them in Stortinget. A new Vista Analysis report shows that seven out of ten projects promised in the National Transport Plan are now delayed. Nothing less than 32 years has taken to build motorways with acceptable standard through Vestfold. It's too long. It shows that the current piecewise and divided way of building roads increases the cost by about 30 pst. It's not durable. It is built too little road, it is built too expensive, and it is built too slowly. It's going to do something to the right. I notice that right-wing transport policy is being attacked by many teams. It's all right, but there's got to be hold of the attacks. Unfortunately, in the last few days we've seen that it's not, and I hope we don't see more times.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2243	I think perhaps the representative of Langeland and perhaps also the representative of Hofstad Helleland – at least the representative of Langeland – should see the news from yesterday on, and I also think that Langeland should read the draft budgets presented in the Stortinget once more. It's actually like there's money building the road. You have to have money if you want to build a road. Then I would like to say when the representatives of the government parties in the pulpit here have said – Freddy de Ruiter was out and said it – that politics is about priority: politics for me is about want. The party of progress is going to travel, and that's why we're also proposing to spend 15 billion. kr in two state companies to a massive expansion of road and rail. In addition, we are proposing extra money on the state budget to solve other challenges. When you boast about yourself and the government has done so much, I want to say, what have you been able to do in eight years? Well, you've managed to build 225 km of four-field highway, and you've managed to build 170 km of middle parts. 225 km of motorway is now a little bit, but it's very small in eight years. One hundred and seventy miles in the middle is probably almost to go into the shame-hook of, I think, at least when we see that the Swedes build 120, 140, 160 and 200 km a year. So it might not be that much to brag about. But back to what we're really discussing today, traffic forecasts. I think it's been a good discussion. We have been told that the Workers' Party will not reduce the requirement for a four-field road to less than 12 000 in the ÅDT. The Progress Party disagrees. We believe that more factors should be taken into account than what you do today. Then I want to go over to the Council of State in relation to the E18 and these forecasts and the professionals who say that this should be the case. The E18 in Bamble has proposed a 20-metre-width roadway service following a directive from the Directorate of Roads. So the emergency police, the fire and rescue department, the ambulance station, the municipality – everyone says – say you expect 23 meters, because it's about road safety. It's just going to Eastfold. That's where we looked at the new 20-metre-dimension road, that it narrowed something so crazy. Fortunately, it went well. The NCC, who does the job on four-field roads, says that the best thing is 23 meters. It's the cheapest thing. It's $120 million. kr to extend to 23 meters from 20 meters. It's peanuts when we know what we can save on operation and maintenance, and not least what we can save on reduced accident costs. I hope that the Council of State, although she does not want to do so now, will include both my questions and the solutions that the Progress Party has come with today to improve road safety and transport challenges in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2256	This might have been a bit of a debate in one debate, if I'm allowed to be honest. It may not be quite nice to smile when you're a state councillor, but I had to do it when the representative Michaelsen suggested that three central party councils prioritized the E39 north of Stavanger because we were all from places along the E39. I don't feel struck by it. I'm from the Nord-Trøndelag, and the E39 doesn't go into my home country at all. On the other hand, E6 and E14 do, but they are not so often the subject of debate – just as has been said. There is one side to this debate that I consider to be very important, the representative Bratli was concerned about it, and that is how we should give priority to doing something in relation to the day-to-day traffic. Are we going to put down the requirements for what is going to be a four-field road, or should we first of all give priority to lowering the requirements where we build a mid-track? I am not in doubt that the most important thing is to consider lowering the requirements for a power plant. Traffic safety will undoubtedly be the most important, and what should be assessed first – before considering the issue of four-way daily traffic. It was also assessed in relation to the Road Safety Directive and there was a status of a four-field road and a two-field road with a pass-by field and a midway network coming out in a similar way in the case of road safety. So here it's important to be clear that there's no quadruple road in itself that is the most important link to road safety. In fact, the most important single measure that can be taken is still a pitfall, and that puts the government up for the whole stretch Search-Aelgård. Then I must also say that this with priorities is an interesting debate. I see that the Right now goes to attack us, and Halleraker was also in on it. Just a month ago, the party leader in the Right visited Sørlanden and said what I also quite agree with: the needs you have in Sørlanden must be seen in relation to the needs you have in the rest of the country. She would not without further promise of four-field road when she was there, nothing more than that government is actually going to add up to. That, I think, was a reasonable and realistic attitude, which I also think Right will have to take note of if they are to come to government for the harvest. How they will deal with the whole different policies of the Progress Party, both in terms of four-field pathways, and in terms of financial resources and priorities, is not up to this Council of States to have strong opinions, but interestingly so!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2271	The debate on substance is closed. So 10 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2286	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2295	Unlike the previous case, this is a matter on which we are very much in agreement and which we welcome. We have spent some time in the committee dealing with this matter, and that is because we know that the follow-up to this directive in the EU bodies is not entirely unproblematic. It is such that this principal directive must be followed up by an operationalisation, and that is what is called the European Electronic Toll Service, i.e. the EETS. It was a small mistake that we did not highlight it in our comments, but now it is done from here. There are major discussions between Member States about this, and there are also a number, indeed quite a number, of Member States that have not yet incorporated this directive. However, a large majority of the Committee has come to the conclusion that this is very positive. It is positive that the issuer's role is now distinguished and that it is possible to compete in this context, and that is what the majority of the Committee also says in its comments. We look forward to what will come out of this EETS cooperation, which has now also been given a small expiry called the RETS, which is thus a regional arrangement for coordination. There, Norway – and I think it is right to say so from this platform – has been quite busy, at the top, developing what has been called EasyGo, i.e. using data from electronic pieces in several countries, and doing things to get the right invoice for the right customer. It happens between Norwegian, Swedish, Danish and Austrian users, and that is very good. The implementation between some other countries is not as good as it is, but one must hope that perhaps the Council of State and her administrative apparatus will promote the success that EasyGo has become, as a pilot project, and as a RETS project, in the important work in progress. Because once this is in place, you'll be able to use your car pass tags on tour across Europe and get one invoice back. That's what's the ideal, and it's not so different from what we, for example. has on our phones. So I wish the Council of State good luck on this work. The progress party has some other and nuanced views on this which I expect they will explain for themselves. For the Right, I must also say that I am a little concerned that the large costs that come with this are almost automatically passed on to the users. There I think maybe the government should have taken part of the bill. But all in all, this is a positive case.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2308	I shall be quite brief, but I would just like to say that I am pleased that this is such a broad support for the Stortinget directive. In reality, the inclusion of the Directive would not imply a major change in the legal situation, but would be a continuation of the principles already applicable to toll collection in Norway. It could mean both simplification and important coordination in the long term, not least for business transport, and there are also positive aspects to the Directive and its inclusion. There is uncertainty about the economic and administrative consequences, the government has underlined in the proposition, and I would also like to emphasise it, but there is no reason to assume that the economic consequences should lie in a completely different magnitude than that stated in the proposition. It must also be emphasised that it would be optional for drivers to use local or national solutions in the case of bombing chips or to connect to the so-called EETS. This means that you can actually continue with the systems you have for some time to come. If you use the EETS, you also need to take privacy interests into account and take that aspect into account. The Ministry of Transport and the Directorate-General of Road Transport will continue to work to safeguard Norwegian interests in the further process of concreteising the key aspects of the implementation and implementation of the Directive, and will take into account the comments that have been made in this regard.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2326	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2329	I want to challenge the Minister of Transport, because we asked what the EU Member States have done: in fact, there are 24 Member States that have not implemented this. We also do not know when some of them intend to implement it. As a government council for a party that is really very critical of the EU, I do not understand why it is so important to rush this directive through in the Storting. We are very critical of much of what is in this directive, but it may be problematic to oppose it. After all, it should first be seen that EU countries followed up and implemented this directive before Norway was a driver and one of the first to implement it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2336	It is clear that with regard to this type of directive – to which we have been obliged under the EEA Agreement – it is in the nature of the matter that the government is behind the EEA Agreement as it stands and that one will also introduce the directives resulting from the agreement. This directive has been in place for a while and it is important that we also have a certain pace of implementation of the directives in Norway. I do not think we should take into account just how many other countries have introduced a directive before we decide on the directive. I think we need to take a maritime assessment of whether it is appropriate and proper to implement the directive, and that is what we have done in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2341	Then I register that the Central Party – and the Central Party Council – seems to be fine to rush this through. I think it's a little stupid when there's so many countries waiting to do it. I want to challenge her in terms of the cost of the car, because this is a new bill that just – once again – is being pushed into the car drivers. Does the Council not see that when the state authorities are going to impose this on the drivers, you should have taken that cost at the state's expense and not push it over to the drivers?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2350	As I mentioned, I think this is a completely unproblematic directive to introduce into Norwegian law. I think I would think that I was either a representative of one or the other party – perhaps with the exception of the Progress Party. In reality, however, it is a directive that simplifies in the long term both for industrial traffic and for other road users in Norway and abroad. So politically it should not be problematic, and the government wants to implement this type of directive within a reasonable time after we have been obliged to do so from the EU. In terms of costs, we have chosen to follow the principles of new toll-related costs, and that is that the costs are directly borne by toll companies. A broad majority of the Committee has also agreed to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2357	I'll help the council a little bit. I think Bård Hoksrud knows that some other countries are not doing – and want – separating the issuer role and the collection role. We've said that we're opening up in Norway, and that's very good. I think this is a good thing. Then I had a small appeal to the Council of State in my post, which I wanted her to respond to – it shouldn't be so difficult either: in the regional sub-project that is now under way to try to unload this, it should be excellent to include EasyGo – which is created by Norwegian administrative environments – on which we are really good, and which could perhaps help us to get it faster in the rest of Europe than what we see today. Could the Council of State imagine that?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2365	I have noticed what is in the setting about it, and as I also said to the representative Halleraker in my post, the Ministry of Transport and the Directorate of Roads will work together to take care of Norwegian interests in the further process. This is one element attached to it, which we also take with us, and which we have noticed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2370	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2373	I'm not going to spend a lot of time, but it's good to explain some of the things that we're a little bit critical of. First of all, we could have had a real toll debate, but I think maybe we shouldn't do it tonight. But it is clear that we in the Progress Party believe it is a state responsibility to finance road construction, and that this should not be thrown into the driving lists through tolls. That is why we are also critical of this directive – because it would not be necessary to avoid the tolls. Then I want to say – which I also challenged the Minister of Transport – that we think it is wrong that the drivers are finally getting this bill right in jail. We believe that should have been done by the state. We have also written comments about this in the setting, so I will not say anything more than that now, but only so that we have at least explained the point of view of the Advance Party in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2382	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 12 and 13 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2409	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2418	This is a brand day. It is a great pleasure for me to present the Committee's consideration of matters for a plenary debate. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the members of the Committee for their good cooperation on matters. Norway agrees to the ratification of the rights of disabled people. It has taken time, but time has been used to meet the requirements of the Convention. When a text of the Convention against Norwegian law began to be assessed, the law on defence was considered to be a major change in order to comply with the requirements set by the Convention to us. Fortunately, it is a unanimous committee that emphasises that ratification will help to ensure equal opportunities for people with disabilities to realise their human rights. The Committee also emphasises the need to build up barriers to participation in all the arenas of society. All human beings shall have the possibility of fulfilling their human rights and fundamental freedoms. It should be a wake-up call for all of us that there is still a need for this convention. There is solid evidence that disabled people are excluded from exercising their rights as citizens in different parts of the world, in different situations and for very different reasons. Discrimination is multifaceted: non-availability of polling facilities, not access to education, lack of accessibility to the different areas of society in leisure time, not access to ordinary working life — it is possible to continue to list. Our job to ensure the rights of people with disabilities will require continuous awareness of the theme at all levels of society. Common basic positions on non-discrimination of persons must be respected at all levels of administration and civil society. This requires information, and it requires debate. In the 2013 state budget, we have committed funds to projects that can strengthen the awareness-raising work. One of the criteria selected is inter alia: measures to contribute to the implementation of the Convention. The ratification of the Convention strengthens the work on gender equality for people with disabilities. The SSB submitted the report ‘Persons with disabilities’ earlier, last month. Indicators on living conditions and equality’, No. 8/2013. We have for some time had weak evidence of the condition. However, this makes more living conditions visible where disabled people as a group have lower counts than in the general population. There is a lower proportion of jobs, there is a lower level of education than in the general population, and there is a higher proportion of low-income households. This makes it visible that disabled people as a group do not fully participate in all the arenas of society. That's why it's with pleasure that we're submitting a housing report that requires universal design. That is why we have adopted a job strategy, and we are increasing the funds and transfers to the municipalities, so that they can carry out their tasks better – for everyone. This is gender equality in form and practice. Norway has been named one of the most equal societies in the world several times, but even here, there are some who are more like it than others. That's why we're joining the convention – the right to participate in the same line with our friend, the right to be able to be claimed on the same line with our friends. Discrimination often comes in lenient forms: there is no requirement for the individual, no effort is expected. The right to take decisions itself and the right to be given obligations and claims fail. During the hearings, questions were raised about the supplementary protocol, which I would like to comment on. The representative, Mr. Davøy, asked questions about this to the Minister for Foreign Affairs in the autumn, and I chose to include the answer to written question No. 1997. The Minister for Foreign Affairs shall reply: ‘The work of facilitating Norwegian ratification of the Convention required a comprehensive review of Norwegian legislation and practices, and this work was given priority. We will, after the Convention has been ratified, review the consequences of the ratification of the Protocol on Individual Right of Appeal before we take a decision on this issue.» Then I'll make a mistake in the text. By an incurrency, it's in the Inner East. 203 S to Prop. 106 S, page 3, column 2, third bottom paragraph: ‘The Committee therefore considers that the Convention will enter into force on 1 June 2013.’» Here it shall be “ratified” and not “in force”. With this I wish everyone in the Chamber good luck with the day. I want the rest of the population to be happy to have taken a step further towards an equal society. Then I wish the government good luck in implementing the convention.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2458	30 March this year is six years since Norway signed this convention as one of the first countries in the world. The Progress Party believes that it has taken an unnecessary amount of time before we get to where we are today, that we should ratify – but it is a pleasure that this is happening. Other laws and regulations have already been adopted to ensure that people with disabilities have equal opportunities to participate in all areas of society, but I cannot see that it has been satisfactorily followed up. On the contrary, over the last few years, we have seen that the government cuts into schemes that help people with disabilities get a better daily life. The strengthening of the rights of persons with disabilities must also be reflected in the State budgets for which the Convention is expected to be followed up. Yes, because the expectations of what a rich country can do to include everyone, are naturally big enough. Expecting the vision of a universally designed society to reach us by 2025, unless the state contributes – taking greater financial responsibility – is utopian. In the case of transport systems, they are often a prerequisite for disabled people to live an active and more social life. Existing schemes such as labour and education travel, the TT system and the social security system need to be adapted to the real needs and not to be scarce. In order for disabled persons also to be able to use public transport, there is a need for a planned upgrade with regard to the universal design of trains, trams, buses and aeroplanes, and, of course, also a planned upgrade of stations, terminals and stops. There is also a need to upgrade old public building materials and schools. Facilitation involves not only the introduction of laws and regulations that prevent discrimination but also the granting of funds for the universal design of society and for health and care measures, assistance and modern facilities. As welfare levels and life expectancy increase, a growing proportion of the population suffers from disability. Persons already disabled also live longer. Age discrimination now affects more and more older people. Older people are expected to work longer, to live in their own homes and to have an active leisure time. The Progress Party believes that this should also be possible for the elderly with disabilities and that there is reason to consider whether today’s schemes discriminate against people over 67 years of age unfairly. The need for services and organisation is individual and does not necessarily follow age. It is also a problem that disabled people over the age of 26 have to pay all training aids and training equipment themselves. This is purely age discrimination and is not justified by professional reasons. The Progress Party is strongly critical of the significant cuts made in the facility over the past few years, which has resulted in many no longer acquiring the tools from which they can benefit. The Progress Party believes that access to resources should be financed by public funding and not by local priorities, local economy or the budget framework of health enterprises. I am using the opportunity today to remind you of some of the proposals of the Progress Party that would have helped people with disabilities to be more equal than they are today. We have asked the government to present a progress plan on universal design, including the economic conditions for fulfilling the plan. We have proposals to strengthen labour-oriented measures, as far as possible participation in the labour market, proposals to introduce a state-funded and rights-based BPA scheme, proposals to introduce a service dog as a system similar to a guide for the blind, proposals to strengthen access to facilities and to improve the social security system and proposals to introduce a grant scheme for the organisation of housing for people with disabilities. The notification of housing imposes new buildings and private financing for the provision of facilities, but there are many who already live in dwellings where the state has to contribute more. Furthermore, we have proposals to have national guidelines on quality and quantity in the TT system and on a financing system that ensures TT transport in line with the guidelines. We have also proposed the removal of the 26-year rule for training and activation aids and the adoption of a stepping-up plan for adapted training and work for people with developmental disabilities. I'm going to end by saying that everything is downgraded by the government parties. This would be very good suggestions to implement to give disabled people a better everyday life. The requirements for user participation in the Convention also need to be better followed up and greater user involvement should be provided by the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman, who is now responsible for following up the Convention. Finally, I will address the proposal of the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party. I then assume that the Labour Party and the government parties will vote in favour, if I interpreted what was said by the previous speaker, correctly.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2492	The representative of Giltun has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2495	First, I would like to express my joy at the fact that Norway is going in today to ratify the UN Convention for People with Disabilities. It is an important milestone in the fight for the rights of people with disabilities. It is now established once and for all that the general human rights apply also to people with disabilities in Norway. Only to clear the misunderstanding: the Convention is not about special rights — on the contrary, it must guarantee disabled people the right to participate in society as equivalent citizens, with the same rights and obligations as any other citizen of society. It's high time to get this in place. But even if this is a milestone, it doesn't mean we're in the goal. With the signature and ratification of this Convention, Norway has undertaken – as it states in the Convention – to: ‘take all legislative, administrative and other measures necessary to achieve the rights conferred by this Convention’. There's still a good deal to be done here. The first – and perhaps most important – individual measure concerns universal design. Here we have agreed that Norway should be universally designed by 2025. But it's worth taking the concerns that come from disabled people's organisations, seriously: is this really fast enough? Universal design is just one aspect of many. Planning is so much more, e.g. appropriate assistance and guidance at the right moment, whether in a grocery store, in front of a mini-bank or in a polling room to perform its democratic duty. In all such situations, there is a right to the arrangements necessary for access to what is available to everyone else. It has taken a whole seven years from the convention to ratify it today – seven years – and a whole six years from we signed it until it is now up to ratification. Yes, it is true that we had to put in place the necessary legislation before the Convention could be ratified. But did it really have to take six years before the necessary law was put in place? Six years from signing to Stortinget have now finally taken a decision on the matter? I doubt that. If this was a priority problem, you could have done it earlier. I have to point out that although we are good at distributing money in this room, we are even better at distributing problems. That's why it doesn't always follow the money with the problems we distribute. For all intents: there is room for improvement and more efficient use of resources in most places, that's not what I'm saying. But when the government and the government say to an agency or a directorate, ‘Do this, in addition to what you do before’, without it going with any resources, then it's not exactly a signal that it's a priority task. That is what we are doing today: we are asking the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman to follow up and ensure that the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities is complied with – without following up with additional resources. I think that's a clear but sad signal from the government. Then there's the supplementary protocol: the government hasn't taken a position on the supplementary protocol. There may be reasons why you should go or not go to ratify it, but since the government has not taken a stand on it, we have not received the pro-arguments or the counter-arguments. To this end, the Right, together with the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, promotes the proposal made by Mr Giltun's representative: ‘The Government is asked to carry out during the spring of 2013 an investigation that makes benefits and disadvantages visible by ratifying the Additional Protocol on the right of appeal to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities.’; When this proposal was promoted in the Committee on the Right, we were sure that it would be supported by the entire political spectrum. The reason is that just a few months ago – November 11, 2012 – a proposal with virtually exactly the same wording received support from all the parties on Stortinget. The only difference was that it was about the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. So right-wing proposals when it comes to disabled people don't seem to get support from government parties unless they take the edge off in the last second. All we ask is an investigation – nothing but that. Why do they go for such a proposal in the case of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and then vote for the same proposal in the case of the disabled? Finally, let me underline how happy I am that this convention is now being ratified. It's a happy day, and that's good. But there is a small bismach – in the context of this witnessing a down-priority case that is not taken seriously enough by the government. It's a shame, and it's a significant cut in joy, even though it's all a joy day.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2525	I also want to use the opportunity to congratulate you on a brand day. It's absolutely right that we've been waiting for it. This is about, as the representative Sylvi Graham said, equal rights, and it's about something as fundamental as human rights – being able to be an equal citizen in a society regardless of function. It's a very important principle – it's about the principle of it, but it's also about how, through other laws and other arrangements, we make this possible in practice. I am very concerned that we have this starting point, i.e. that it is equality and non-discrimination policies that we are now talking about, and that health and social policy – or housing policy and the other things – are in a way the means to realise what is a human rights issue. It is also important that it is about the dismantling of barriers, because we have built a society that actually discriminates against itself. It is easy to see that once principles of universal design are put in place, the policy to be followed, for example. on the residential side, the resistance comes very quickly. We have experienced and seen in the newspapers that then is the understanding that people with disabilities should be able to choose in the same housing market, the same residential areas, or have the law and the ability to move where they want to according to their own wishes and their own economy, somewhat subordinate. Then you suddenly think that this can't be necessary to do anything. Well, it's actually necessary to do it everywhere, because so much of what we've done before is just not universally designed and going to be standing there as an obstacle for some years to come. I think we should be so honest about that. I am also concerned that we are able to follow up on the commitments we have agreed to – when we say that society should be universally designed in 2025. It's important because it's a human rights issue. It's also, of course, about all people being able to use their working skills and live an equal and good life. I think that's also a plus on most budgets. So it's been critical because it's taken a long time. I have been one of those who has been terribly impatient, I must admit it. But it is that Norway, at least through all the governments I have known, has had this method of going to ratification, namely that all the underlying laws should be in line with the convention. And that's it now. So you could say that it might have taken a long time, but that's the way it is. There is no new principle that the government has introduced in relation to other governments that have been before. I've criticized it a little bit, not because I don't think it's very important that governments follow up the conventions, because that must be the most important thing. There are many people who write under a convention, and then it's like that, and it's practically not followed up on national law at all. But you might have pulled it a long way – for all the small details to be in place. And that can help Norway play a role internationally, which means that we get on some worst lists where we really don't belong. It is important that many enough countries ratify in order for this to come into force. Now it has happened – but Norway can play such a role. Then there's been a discussion about the supplementary protocol. It's no secret that I'm a supporter of signing it, and that we intend to continue working to get it done. But I want to draw attention to what the rapporteur said, that this is what you are working for. Then there is little tradition in Stortinget – even when we have had other governments – to promote concrete proposals on something that the government says they work with and has to assess. I don't think you're going to overinterpret this, and there's a lot of us working to get this realized. I think it is important — perhaps not so important for Norway, but it is important for the international legitimacy of such a system, which can be needed in countries other than Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2540	The ratification of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities is an important matter, and I will fully adhere to the thorough, good and strong presentation of Mr Brandvik. It has taken time – yes – because it has to be followed up in practice. It has to be followed up in practice trying to get a more equal life for people with disabilities compared to us who are functionally healthy. There will have to be consequences in everyday life; there will have to be consequences in budgetary priorities; there will have to be consequences if you think something about it, which now all parties are very strong on, that, for example, one should facilitate a lower real wage growth for those who have a material abundance. We'll see how it works. In the setting, there is a clarification of the term “reasonable arrangement” that I would like to underline. With reasonable organisation, we believe – and that is an overall committee: «necessary and appropriate change and adjustment which does not involve a disproportionate or undue burden, where necessary in a particular case, in order to ensure that disabled persons can enjoy or exercise all human rights and fundamental freedoms in line with others». This is quite demanding. It costs money. Here is a joint committee on this, and now I hear, among other things. The representative, Sylvi Graham, who is very critical of the use of time, I think it is something strong. I get a bit of a flurry in my mouth after many years of experience with the Right Representatives of the Financial Committee, where I can't say that it's the public sector in general, or those groups here in particular, that are allocated the greatest funds. So I'm very pleased that the government has now presented this, and that it has presented it in such a way that it is clear to be implemented in practice. It means that we're going to stick together about it when we have a common attitude, and it's going to be very exciting to see in the practical implementation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2554	This is a day of joy that many people have been in. The whole committee and politicians from all parties are actually genuinely happy today, and we also hear that from the pulpit. It's a milestone that several people have been involved in, not just for people with disabilities, but for society as a whole. The ratification of the Convention clearly states that no one should be discriminated against, but that everyone should be given equal opportunities to be part of our society and live independent lives. That's good, and it serves society as a whole. Norway needs equal opportunities for all citizens to participate actively in society. In order for the Convention to actually affect individuals, it is also good that the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman is given the supervisory responsibility of the Convention today. They shall ensure that Norwegian law and administrative practices comply with the obligations under the Convention. In this context, it is important that we give the Ombudsman an actual opportunity to carry out this task, and therefore the Christian People's Party in its alternative state budget has increased the allocation to the Equality Ombudsman by 1.5 million. Compared to the government's budget. We think it's necessary. The Christian People's Party, together with the other opposition parties, has also wondered whether the government has failed to present an impact assessment of any ratification of the Additional Protocol that would, or would, grant individual remedies to the UN in the event of a breach. The Norwegian Handicap Association today says that they are very surprised that the right of appeal is not included at the same time as the ratification of the Convention. As others have pointed out, the opposition parties propose that the government carry out an impact assessment of any ratification of the Additional Protocol. As I said, it has also been very important for the Christian People's Party to ratify the Convention. We have been several people who have spent a long time and well on the government. The point has been not only that the Convention should be incorporated into the law, but that it should in fact mean a change for individuals in terms of just the possibility of participating in society in the same way as all others. Unfortunately, we have seen several examples that the government has narrowed down some people’s freedom of action – I would say – and the ability to live independent lives. This has happened recently. This applies, for example: the curtailment of the entitlement to care allowance, the suspension of the user-controlled personal assistant’s right regime and not least – in the last weeks – the tightening of the offer of deaf-blind interpreter/accompaniment. Last summer a new circular was sent out which stated that deaf blind people’s rights to interpreters/accompaniments in recreational activities should be greatly reduced. This has led to the isolation of many deaf blind people and a significant reduction in their quality of life. For many deaf blind people it is absolutely necessary to have interpreters/accompaniments related to leisure activities. It's not enough with an accomplice, they should also be able to communicate if you're to say that they're well integrated. Only then can they participate fully and have the opportunity to live a life of their own. The objective of the ratification of the UN Convention is, of course, to ensure that people with disabilities are able to live their own lives and to ‘participate fully in all areas of life’, as the Convention states. I'm very concerned about this particular matter because it's an incredibly good example that in my opinion you have to reverse the rule change that was, if we're going to comply with this convention. It is contrary to the Convention that you no longer have this right, and it is urgent to reverse it. I hope that the Council of State will come up with a clarification as soon as possible to solve the problem. In my opinion, the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities does not allow anything else. The consequences of the ratification can not only be fine words on fine paper – we all have a responsibility for it – it must lead to concrete action, because we are not quite forward today. The law must see the individual in need of assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2571	Let me start by joining that wish for happiness: Congratulations on the day, I will also say from this pulpit. It's not every day you get to be involved in the process of ratifying a document as important as a human rights convention is. It is also quite right, as has been said, that the Convention represents a turning point. You can call it a paradigm shift that you go from talking about health policy and social policy when you discuss people with disabilities and their place in society, to talking about equality, equality, participation and self-determination. That's what I hope to contribute to doing something with us, and that we begin to think differently about how we plan our society, considering that everyone should be able to participate on equal terms. WHO and the World Bank's World report on disability suggest that there are about 1 billion people with disabilities in the world. It's equal to 15 pst. of the population of the earth. The report demonstrates that disabled people face extensive barriers to health care, education, working life, transport and communication. People with disabilities have lower health, lower education and a lower economy than the rest of the population. I just came from New York, where we've had the biggest meeting ever about violence against women. We also had the first meeting ever – as far as I could understand – that took into account the situation of people with disabilities – women and children – starting with the fact that these are people who are far more vulnerable to violence and abuse than others, who are functionally healthy. But you often forget it, and you even forget that people with disabilities also have sex. The report clearly shows that the human rights of disabled persons have long been ignored and neglected. The UN Convention provides a good basis for addressing this and ensuring that all people are allowed to participate in what most of us consider to be a matter of course. In the process of ratification, we have seen the need to make changes to Norwegian legislation. It is clear that Norwegian defence law is contrary to the Convention’s provision on legal capacity. The Vergemålslaw came, as most here know, in place for another time, around the year 1900, and is now ripe for history's scrappowder. The Government has maintained on a line that Norwegian law must comply with the Convention prior to ratification. The reason for this is that the government – as former governments, just as Andersen’s representative was involved – wants to demonstrate credibility and integrity in international relations, and in particular in matters relating to human rights. Waiting to ratify until we've cleared our own house shows that we're taking the Convention obligations seriously. We have also received the agreement of several members of the United Nations Committee to the CRPD, whether there are different opinions on this, and whether it is also, as the representative Andersen was in the Chamber, aspects of what can speak in a different direction. At the same time, the Government proposes that the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman be responsible for monitoring compliance of Norwegian law and administrative practices with the Convention. We are confident that the Ombudsman will manage this role with courage and wisdom. The Ombudsman is doing a solid job of monitoring the implementation of CEDAW and CERD, i.e. The Women's Discrimination Convention and the Racial Discrimination Convention. In the context of the periodic reports to the United Nations bodies of the Treaties, the Ombudsman has carried out maritime surveys of Norwegian conditions and provided his own reports as a basis for the examination of Norway. The Ombudsman complies with the relevant requirements of the so-called Paris principles for institutions to promote and protect human rights. The task of monitoring the national implementation of the CRPD is largely linked to tasks already undertaken by the Ombudsman in the context of the Discrimination and Availability Act. The Ombudsman will be able to use figures from the cases brought against the Ombudsman to identify the actual situation of persons with disabilities in relation to the provisions of the Convention. Following the third paragraph of Article 33 of the Convention, civil society, and in particular disabled persons and organisations representing them, shall be involved in the monitoring process and participate fully in it. It's important to underline. User involvement is part of the Convention. I know that the Ombudsman has discussed this with representatives of disabled people's organisations and will establish structures for cooperation with the organisations. But first of all, sail if you can believe that it has taken time: congratulations on the day! It's a milestone and a big day.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2590	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2594	In my post, I framed many good proposals that the Advance Party has promoted, but that have been voted down by the government. My claim is that if these proposals had been given a majority, the situation would have been much better, and the disabled would have been much more equal than they are today. Even if you have cleaned up your own house, you have not, as I see it, cleaned up in terms of looking at the good arrangements that should come into force. My question is: how will those covered by this Convention notice that their rights have been strengthened, and in what specific areas will the Council of State ensure that arrangements are put in place to make disabled persons more equal, to give them better opportunities for work, to have a better social life, to live in their own homes – and at all this with a universal design? I could imagine that the Council of State said something concrete about what will happen after June.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2601	It was almost a question that is suitable for an interpellation — it was a very comprehensive question. Some of this we've dealt with both in the notes and in the proposition itself, but we're going to have to come back to the answer to some of the individual points that the representative raised. I think, as I said, that maybe the biggest change with this convention is how we think about this, that it's not just about social policy and health policy, but it's about equality. It is about the whole basis for how we develop policies in all areas of society, and then it is about ensuring equal participation. I want to promote school as an area of particular importance that we contribute to making changes in the future, not least on the ICT page of school. There we're going to work hard to make changes. So it's also about making sure we don't take the step back. The representative Andersen mentioned this with housing – we have to see that how we build today will become important far ahead of time for the possibility of being equivalent.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2608	It is easy to adopt laws that others are required to pay, such as building new dwellings. What I'm looking for is that when the government has now spent six years preparing this ratification, very many people expect it to be something concrete, that you notice differences, and that the government and government also want to help improve the situation. It is also, in fact, about healthcare and social services. These include rehabilitation, rehabilitation, access to services, access to facilities, a user-driven personal assistance scheme and equivalent treatment wherever you live in the country, etc. In fact, there are expectations that, as politicians, we have thought about what we should do, what we can do to help more people perceive the society we have today as being equal. It's not for them to have advantages over others, but they're going to have the opportunity to participate in the same line with others, and I could imagine some concrete examples of what the Council of State will do.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2613	I think we have to be prepared to work systematically with this area in the future. It requires that we be forward-looking, and that we integrate the gender perspective for people with disabilities in all areas of society. That is what I hope this convention and its ratification will contribute to. I fully agree that with regard to social services and healthcare, this is very important, but it is also important in the other areas, and it is not only important because it concerns a small group of people, but it is all about us. It's about that in different stages of life we're also going to have varying degrees of function, and it's about that today is what you need to help, tomorrow it might as well be me. So we have to plan, because this is about us all, really about solidarity, 'enlightened self-interest', as it has been defined as. So we work, among other things. on the basis that society should be universally designed in 2025, and we must work on that in all areas of society.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2618	Right has respect for the government's desire for thoroughness in ratification processes. But as all those who have spoken to disabled people's organisations know, ratification of the supplementary protocol is important, and the Right therefore believes that it is important to have a thorough review of all aspects of that matter. Just a few months ago, on 29 November, a proposal actually received exactly the same wording of support from all the parties on the Stortinget, and the only difference was that it was about the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. So my question to the Council of State is therefore: why this discrimination? Why will the government assess the benefits and disadvantages of the Additional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Disabled, but not the same with regard to the Convention on the Rights of the Disabled?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2623	First, as Minister of Children, let me stress that I am pleased that we are going to look at the different aspects by ratifying the supplementary protocol to the Children's Convention, which I consider important. As far as I know, it has not been customary to ratify an additional protocol at the same time as ratifying the Convention itself, but as was said both by the representative Brandvik and by the representative Andersen, this is something that the government is already addressing. So you can't read this as if the government doesn't want to look at the different sides, but it has something to do with the traditions of the relationship between big business and government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2628	Both the Council of State now and the representative Karin Andersen have just said from this pulpit that it was not necessary to vote for something that the government has said it is working for, and she also said that there were many who worked for this supplementary protocol. Then my question to the Council of State becomes this: How far has the government come, and when can we wait for something for Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2633	This is strictly a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, so I must almost ask that the question of the progress plan and when it will be in port be addressed there. But the representative can be sure that I think it is important that Norway has a forward-looking position on this issue, especially for the reasons that the representative Karin Andersen drew up, the international. As far as the Additional Protocol to the Women's Discrimination Convention is concerned, as far as I know, there is no one who has ever used legal remedies, so there is no indication that there is going to be a very large amount here. But getting to know the different aspects, which we are now dealing with in the area of the Children's Convention, will also be important in this area, and the government wants to look at it. So there's no need to put too much into this from the representative Sylvi Graham.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2640	I think it is very good that it is clarified so strongly that you have to investigate the consequences and that you are already in the process. What is perhaps a bit alarming about this is that the websites of the Swedish Disability Association today say that they are very happy that they are ratified, but disappointed and surprised that the additional protocol is not ratified, and – they write – that the government parties do not want to investigate either. Then I assume that your opinion must be incorrect. I hope that the government and the Council of State will be able to tell these organizations that this is being done, and that we can also go out and say that this is actually going to happen. I would like a confirmation of that. My second question is, you have often been viewed as ill when you have a disability. Does the Minister for Gender Equality have any idea that some of the measures we have should really be equality measures and not health measures, for example. BPA?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2647	First of all, I would like to refer to the reply from my colleague, the Minister for Foreign Affairs. We might be sending that exact answer to the Disability League, so they get it, unless they've seen it. I would at least stress that this is something we are doing. To the second question, I think that's a very good question. Some of it has been raised by stakeholder organisations, too, that it is often not the individuals who have faults and shortcomings, but the community and the fact that we do not facilitate that different people have the same opportunities – as far as possible, at least – that are the problem. We need to have a much stronger critical look at our own society and think equality to a much greater extent.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2654	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2660	As the rapporteur said, the ratification of the UN Convention we are doing today is an important step in the right direction for the rights of people with disabilities. In my article, I want to focus on housing and universal design, which is also part of the convention, precisely because people with disabilities are going to have an independent life and be able to participate fully in all areas of life. The government's objective is that the housing and building stock can be used by all. Universally designed means that most people should be able to use the built environment without special arrangements or special solutions. We received a new universal design and accessibility action plan, presented in May 2009. This is an important document because it shows which way we want to go in order for Norway to become more universally designed. Together with the annual government budgets, this is the guide for the government’s work on universal design. The government's vision is that Norway should be universally designed by 2025. It's very ambitious, but possible. It assumes that the Progress Party does not get so much to say in any new government, because I see that their housing policy spokesman, Gjermund Hagesetter, in Hegnar Media, wants to remove the universal design rules on March 12. The representative Giltun thinks it's a utopia to get universal design in 2025 – it's going to be very difficult with her party. A few weeks ago, the government issued a report on housing entitled ‘A housing policy for the individual, society and future generations’, which continues the work of universal design. Is it the case that in 2013 we will allow ourselves to build dwellings and other buildings that will be there for 50 years – perhaps 100 – but are not available to everyone? In the future, people in Norway will live more and more, and the oldest part of the population is growing. There is a positive quality in Norwegian society. Wouldn't it be terribly little forward-looking if these new apartments were not universally designed so that we could stay at home as far as possible? The most central functions in everyday life that many of us take for granted shall be available even if you have reduced mobility permanently or for periods of time for some reason. There may be pregnancy, small children in a baby carriage, a broken bone, a spinal cord, old age or permanent disability that makes available surroundings useful. I think it's important that, after the fall elections, we get a government that wants to have housing and construction with a universal design. The progress party must agree with itself – Vigdis Giltun and Gjermund Hagesetter are at least in disagreement – and we can talk about cleaning up their own house.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2675	I would also like to address myself in the ranks of the Commissioners, and not least I would like to congratulate the many user organisations that have stood by and worked for this to become a reality. That's very good. It's an important day today. The lines go back to 1948 when the UN adopted the World Declaration. In 1950, the EU entered into legal obligations, in 1987, the rights of disabled persons were first dealt with, and today we are here in the Grand Duchy – I don't know if we are going to ratify the Convention or adopt the ratification, but at least it's a happy day. At the same time, there is a paradox here. Do we need a separate Convention for people with disabilities – as if they are not covered by the Conventions that apply to all? But they do. This Convention ensures that human rights are made available to all. It's a small but important difference. Not everyone has vice presidents like Lenin Moreno in Ecuador, who were proposed to the 2012 Peace Prize for their work for disabled people. ‘Being happy is both easy and fun’, is the title of a book he has written, and as a wheelchair user he is probably aware of how much easier it can be, and how much more fun it is when everyone has access to all parts of society. When I move into a country like Ecuador, I put myself in the order of those who make it so that it's abroad, out there, that action and conventions are most required. But I want to turn the question: is it possible for a Norwegian politician to be proposed at the Nobel Peace Prize to facilitate disabled people? It should be, but then we first have to look more inward, towards ourselves and towards our own country. If we are to succeed in full realization, it requires hard work at home, but the look must also be directed beyond. We must be clear and uncompromising in our willingness to improve the conditions of people with disabilities in all countries. We have the tools, we're on our way, and we're on our way. Today, we can rejoice that we are committed to an entire world. The opposition points to several aspects they believe the government is not following up. Several of the measures mentioned by both the Christian People's Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party are being worked on by the government. What they have not mentioned, but which is equally important in my view, are the real political differences: the view of the sick pay scheme, permanent jobs and the redistribution of tax revenue to take three major differences between the right and the left. These will, in my view, have a major impact on the possibilities of living good lives for all, including those covered by this Convention. We're not in the goal, we have more to do. We have to unify the cancers to get better. The Convention shall take effect from 1 June but shall not transform from theory to practice. With regard to what was said by the representative Hilde Magnusson about the position of the Progress Party in terms of universal design, I would just like to say that at least there is no progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2692	As most people have stressed, it is joyous and timely that Norway is now ratifying the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Not because the world is changing from yesterday to tomorrow, but because our accession to the Convention has great symbolic value both internationally and nationally, and symbols are as well-known as important in politics. This does not mean that the objectives and purposes of the Convention have been achieved in most areas. Well, we have passed a law that generally respects the rights of the disabled, but it is in everyday life that the rights of the Convention should be tested. I recognize that it is still a long way to go until we have a universally designed society, or a working life that gives work to everyone who wants and can work. Kristian Hansen from Tønsberg is sitting at the gallery today. He is the head of the disabled community in Westfold, Buskerud and Telemark, and he has come here to listen to this debate. Typically, Kristian had to stand over a train on the Westfold course because the wheelchair ramp did not work on the train he was supposed to take. This is the everyday life of our disabled. So even though we have made arrangements that will undoubtedly facilitate the entry into working life for people with disabilities, it is not entirely the case that companies – and I also include the public – are opening the doors to all those who, according to the UN Convention, are entitled to work, and then I stress that the right to work is a human right. Of course, we have to trust that various support schemes, such as the system of labour and study fees and the payroll scheme, will help more disabled people to gain paid work, but we are constantly seeing disabled people with good and relevant education and training being overlooked by disabled competitors when jobs are to be filled. I think this has to do with attitudes, and with ignorance. The notion that people with disabilities are sicker than others and therefore have longer sicker absenteeism is quite widespread in business, although all experience suggests the opposite, i.e. that disabled people are actually more stable workers than ordinary workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2708	The debate so far has managed to stick to human rights, equality and equality. I think it's the first time I've experienced so clearly in this room that the debate has not been about health care or special measures or different arrangements for different peoples, which is the world's largest minority. It's an uphill trip, and to be absolutely honest: I think it's greedy fun! But I want to raise one thing that we have so far not mentioned, and that is that Norway has a responsibility even when we work out. So I just want to refer to a section from the setting that we have written into the text, and to which a joint committee has agreed: ‘... it is important that disabled people are a central theme of our foreign and development policy. Norway already has a broad commitment to the rights of people with disabilities internationally, but we ask the government to clarify this effort. It is also important that consideration of disabled persons is included in programmes and projects carried out by non-governmental organisations and international programmes.» We're giving a mission to the government from this hall today. We need to strengthen this work when we work out, so that when we work out, we do it in the same form as we do here at home. So I would say that part of the stories that we now encounter around that relate to the lack of availability and lack of access, can sometimes give us a run. For example, Kristian had: trouble with the train today – but when I read a notice from Gjøvik at nrk.no, I actually get a little put out. You choose to perform an exhibition about and for disabled people in a great, protective building. The challenge is that the construction is not available, especially for wheelchair users, and it is divided into two floors. And the answer is that the building was so pretty and old and protective that it was a pleasure to have the exhibition there. I feel that someone has misunderstood something. Had this house not been universally designed, this house would not have been suitable for use in a modern society. This is the case with protection. We may have to protect and not change, but perhaps it cannot be used and used for everyday activities. And some activities are more important than other activities: this hall, and this built, shall be available in all forms. But it also needs to facilitate the activities that everyone at the level of government – and I include the municipalities – is doing for their citizens. That is why I pointed out that the levels of government are self-responsive to taking the independent elections and the independent assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2727	There are many spectators in the gallery today, and I know that there are many people sitting around in front of their PCs and following this debate. Many have expectations of what emerges from this debate – what do we get to know now, what can we expect? Despite the numerous contributions made by the government parties to the pulpit, there has not been a single concrete development that will help people with disabilities to improve their situation since June. Not a single concrete measure. Not a single promise. No obligations – except that we have a very happy day today because we're going to ratify, we're going to approve something. It's disappointing. At the same time, they have used the opportunity to cheat on the Progress Party because we do not believe that everyone – that is, 100 pst. of all student apartments and dwellings – must have a universal design. They've spent a lot of time doing that. It goes without saying that then the government has little to do with it. The Progress Party has made a proposal for existing housing for all, a grant scheme to help organise – and where is the government? Then they are completely absent, because then they have to go out with money, and then they have to take responsibility. This matter is highly concerned with taking political responsibility and taking financial responsibility for more people to cope, and then it helps little to scare that if the Advance Party comes into government, it will not be like that! None of the government parties have made such good proposals to promote equality for people with disabilities as the Progress Party has done, and none of the government parties have put in their budgets their money that could contribute to better working life, better job opportunities and better social life. These are proposals which have broad support in the associations of people with disabilities. Year after year, improvements have been requested in one area after another, and the government is closing its ears. They know where the need is, they know about things that can be improved, but even after six years of planning on this matter, they don't come up with one concrete suggestion as to what they will do that will improve their lives. It's disappointing. I think a lot of people with me are disappointed today. Nor could the Council of State mention one thing. I asked twice to come up with something concrete, but there was nothing concrete, the changes won't be there. When the SV’s representative also says that it may not be so careful that Norway signs that additional protocol, because we are so good and we have it so well, but it’s a signal outwards – yes, then it’s a sign that you don’t know how many people are not getting their rights today, and that unfortunately you won’t take it into account in the future either.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2740	The representative, Brandvik, was concerned that we have discussed rights, and we have been able to discuss them on an overall, principled level. It's true, and this case deserves it, while we, at least I, think that what's going to happen now in retrospect is that as politicians today and tomorrow – this government and new governments – we have to see the consequences of what we're doing now. The representative, Kari Henriksen, was interested in working on several of the issues that some of us have mentioned. Let me take one example that I think will be very important when we're now ratifying. It's a user-controlled personal assistant that the government's been working on for seven years. It's a system that's not a health service, as I see it, but it's in many ways a condition of independence for many people. It really gives freedom, it gives control in its own life. It's almost two years since the entire Health Committee asked the government to come back soon with a user-controlled personal assistant rating. Let me do an example. If a municipality grants 5, 10 or 20 hours, it's not more difficult than the one who needs that help can choose to take it out as a BPA scheme. Instead, we often hear that it is going to be so expensive. It won't be. Many of these assistants are actually cheaper than, for example, home nurses, who have often been used for this. It's so incredibly important, and for my part, as a politician, I feel a responsibility for the fact that precisely this kind of arrangement, which is based on autonomy in everyday life, is about to govern our own daily lives, in fact – whether this government or the future – we have to take responsibility for implementing, and preferably as quickly as possible. I doubt that we haven't been able to do it. I am also concerned about the matter I raised earlier, about deaf interpreters – which is also an incomprehensible matter – although we are going to discuss at a somewhat general level today, but we must be allowed to exemplify when we see that it goes wrong. Then I hope that everyone, i.e. all the state councils – we have met two times here in the Chamber today – and the government sees this responsibility. I think they do, so I expect a lot to happen in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2753	I think there are some misunderstandings about this because of the fact that there are, of course, many arrangements in this society that need to be improved. But the ratification of this Convention has been about the specific obligation of the law as such to fulfil the obligations of the Convention. That's what's been expected. No one has claimed that everything is in its greatest order, that society is universally designed, and that all the arrangements that we should want are in place. Because they're not. There have been several mentions here that many of us work for. I just want to say it, because there's two slightly different things, sail about one -- or the other, to say it like that -- of course, it's very important to realize this goal of equality. Then I need to re-read the answer to a written question related to the supplementary protocol. It says: ‘The work of facilitating Norwegian ratification of the Convention required a comprehensive review of Norwegian legislation and practices, and this work was given priority. We will, after the Convention has been ratified, review the consequences of the ratification of the Protocol on Individual Right of Appeal before we take a decision on this issue.» So this is going to be done. I just want to say it. I have been in Stortinget for a long time, even when both the Right Party and the Christian People's Party were in government. Then they were quite consistent in the Storting, they did not promote or vote for proposals that their own government said they were sitting and working on and were going to implement. So this is going to be done -- anyway. I think it's important. I also believe that when you are going to use such an additional protocol, you have to use or test everything you can with regard to Norwegian complaints and to use all the courts before you can find such a system. That is why I believe that this is probably not the most effective instrument in Norway, but that this is a very important option internationally because there are many countries where this legal option is not available, as it is in Norway. Then we can disagree if we've come far enough with all the different arrangements, etc. Of course we haven't. There's a lot left on a lot here. However, the point is that this additional protocol — and its impact — is a very important symbol issue internationally, and it is probably primarily an instrument for people living in countries other than Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2769	No more people have asked for the word on the matter. 12 and 13.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2783	The majority is currently examining the conclusion of the Nordic Convention on Social Security of 12 June 2012. The current Nordic Convention on Social Security of 18 August 2003 adapts the social security coordination between the Nordic countries to the Community rules in the field by means of EC Regulations Nos. 1408/71 and Nos 574/72. Indirectly, the Convention has been adapted to EC Regulation No. 859/2003, which gives effect to coordination regulations for nationals from non-EU countries, so-called third-country nationals. This Regulation was not applicable to Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway. It also does not apply to Denmark, because of a Danish reservation regarding legal cooperation under the EU Treaty. However, the Nordic Convention applies the social security regulations to all who have been social security members in the Nordic countries, including third-country nationals. In view of this, a new Nordic Convention on Social Security was drawn up and signed on 12 June 2012. The new Convention has been adapted to Regulation 883/2004 as inter alia: has an extended personality, including persons who have not been employed or self-employed. The new Convention mainly continues the main features of the previous coordination rules in the EEA and the Nordic countries. The Convention also lays down rules on the treatment of international cases in difficult areas such as family benefits where conditions are met in different countries. The increased emphasis on administrative cooperation and clearer tasks in the area of rehabilitation in cases where another country is competent may lead to some additional work and expenditure. At the same time, the new rules on dealing with internal issues are expected to bring administrative benefits. In addition, more effective rehabilitation can provide savings on the social security budgets by speeding up the return to work. It is therefore assumed that the Convention may be implemented within the applicable budgetary framework. The new Convention gives Nordic social security cooperation a clearer and stronger anchor than in the previous Conventions. It facilitates the reduction and mitigation of border barriers. The new Convention provides for the adaptation of the inter-ordinary social security coordination to the changes resulting from the new social security regulations, which are already applicable in the EU and which will apply from 1 June 2012 to the EFTA countries Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway when they are incorporated into the EEA Agreement. The new Convention, like the 2003 Convention, is of great importance for Norway, Iceland and Denmark with regard to third-country nationals, because only the Convention provides the basis for applying the Regulation to that group in international matters. The Convention is necessary for Greenland and the Faeroe Islands to participate in the Nordic social security coordination on the same basis as the other Nordic countries. The Committee considers that the proposal for a new Convention is broadly based on the previous coordination rules for the EEA and the Nordic region. Increased labour migration poses major challenges for the coherence of legislation and responsibilities. Nav International has had major challenges with residues, but through 2012, the department has achieved significant performance improvements. The Committee believes that it is important to continue to work with a targeted approach to reducing residues and improving service to users. The Committee considers that ICT investment is expected to further streamline the work of Nav International. There is every reason to expect an increase in labour migration in the coming years. The combination of good economic growth in Norway and high unemployment in Europe contributes to this. The majority of the Committee, with the exception of the members of the Progress Party, points to the need for good coordination legislation at European and Nordic level in order to ensure that people who have acquired the right to benefits are paid correctly and promptly. The majority emphasise that this is important in order to facilitate mobility in the labour market, both in the interests of foreign workers coming to Norway and that more Norwegians are going out to work. As a resident in Eastfold, I often meet cross-border workers to work. Many people report that the legislation is difficult to obtain. My hope is that the Convention can help to make this easier and that work on it must continue. The majority consider the Convention to be an expression of a strong relationship which marked Nordic cooperation. The Committee of the Regions has also delivered an opinion on the position of the Labour and Social Committee and is in agreement with it. I recommend with the attitude of this committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2817	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2831	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given for a replacement of up to 5 lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2840	The size treats today Prop. 7 L on changes in the Swedish Social Security Act to combat social security abuse. We can be proud of how we have built up a popular peace that gives security when you have lost your job, are unable to work for health reasons or can support families with children. Today's popular fear is the most important protection against poverty. Rights are acquired by taking part in the labour market. It provides more equality and individual freedom than in the countries where the individual is more dependent on family care. In line with tax evasion, social security abuse is theft of the community. Abuse undermines the willingness to fund our common security. Norwegian and foreign studies in this area expect significant dark figures for abuse of welfare schemes. In recent years, organised social security abuse has been identified involving cooperation between a large number of people and the systematic exploitation of the rules. The methods of social security fraud are becoming increasingly creative and are facing major challenges. Labour immigration and the possibilities of exporting social security benefits to other countries pose additional challenges for the control of payments from Norwegian welfare schemes. The government takes social security abuse seriously. In 2009, we were given access to several legal changes – such as the exchange of information with insurance companies in the event of suspicion of social security abuse or attempted abuse, access to information from anyone who is presumed to be able to clarify or confirm a suspicion of abuse, and access to control visits at workplaces in particularly vulnerable industries. This is also important in supporting serious work in competition with the unprofessional. In addition, amendments were introduced to the rules on recovery in order to clarify and streamline access to recover mispaid benefits. In October 2012, the amount limit for non-recovery was increased from half of the legal fee, which is DKK 430, to four times the legal fee. In recent years, the government has strengthened the control activities of the annual budgets. The Employment and Welfare Act currently uses 120 years of work on social security abuse, and has a budget for Nav control of about 200 000 people. Eighty-five million. kr. This results in more abuse being detected, reported and prosecuted. I Prop. 7 L is provided with more tools in the fight against social security abuse, such as access to information directly from the accounting officer, the obligation to legitimise, the interconnection of registers and the obligation to report to other public authorities. Access to information directly from the accounting officer may reduce the processing time when self-employed persons apply for income-dependent benefits. The establishment will thus have the same access and ability to verify the income data of traders that are available to employees, where the control point is the employer. The Committee is in favour of increased interconnection of registers. It provides re-use of data already collected, and the form of control provides fewer cases and fewer personal data that need to be reviewed by physical case handlers. The Committee agrees with the Ministry’s clarification that health or other personal data considered sensitive by the Data Protection Act should be excluded. The Committee is also concerned that those who are subject to further follow-up after verification and interconnection of registers must be notified and given a real opportunity to make their views known. Furthermore, it is important to provide an individual with insight into how data is stored and who has access to them. Decisions by other public bodies have in certain cases an impact on the right to benefits at the seat of employment and welfare. In particular, this Decision applies to the non-resident authorities, which may be of crucial importance for the membership of the population. It is proposed in the proposal that routine notifications from the foreign authorities to the State of Employment and Welfare may be provided. However, it will only be possible to give the regulation in a few minutes, as it is not technically possible to implement it today. The Committee welcomes this work. Over a number of years, the State of Employment and Welfare has, among others: in cooperation with other control establishments, identified a number of cases in which persons have received benefits by allowing other persons to act in their name against the relevant public authorities and health professionals. The Public Security Act does not currently contain any rules that explicitly require that the person promoting the requirement for performance be legitimised. Nor does the law contain any direct requirement that the person examined by health professionals with a view to obtaining a declaration on the seat of employment and welfare should be legitimised at the time of examination. Many of the abuse cases that have been identified could have been revealed by a simple identity check at the different stages of the case. In the light of this, the Committee supports the proposal. It is important that an obligation to legitimise does not stand in the way of necessary health care. Neither is the government's suggestion to read. The Progress Party shall promote proposals for quarantine. The majority of the Committee, from the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre, do not wish a general introduction of quarantine time. Severe abuse of social security means that benefits have been provided for which they have not fulfilled the conditions. The benefits are then to be stopped and refunded. The majority also suggest that gross social security fraud also provides punishment according to other parts of the law, and that this has a good preventative effect. The majority believe that whether or not the terms of the different benefits are met should determine whether or not the benefit in question is valid. The proposal is therefore not appropriate. We take social security abuse seriously, and provide this basis for even more people to be taken. Still, I think it's important that we don't create the impression that this is a bigger problem than it actually is. You have to be careful to mix social security abuse and mispayments. Mispayments may be due to relationships between the applicant and Nav itself. We must recognise that in several areas our legislation is difficult for many. An example of this is parental leave. The Minister for Children has taken the initiative to put in place a simpler regulation. Exaggeration of the extent of social abuse can also undermine people’s confidence in welfare systems and contribute to stigmatisation of Nav’s users. Lenin once said: Trust is good, control is better. I think we can state that we never get where there will be no social security abuse. In that case, it will mean a control regime that does not meet people with confidence. When we are vulnerable and need community help, it is perhaps because it is most important to be met with trust. The Government's proposal balances well with the Community's need for control of payments and privacy considerations. I recommend with this committee's attitude and the majority's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2884	Our welfare system is a welfare system we can be proud of, as the rapporteur was also involved in. We have a good safety net to take care of those who fall outside and who need the strong arm of the welfare society of all, most of all. At the same time, we must also recognise that, as the Brochmann Committee points out, our good welfare arrangements can be attractive enough to stimulate abuse. We've seen more headlines in the media looking at the organized part of the abuse of our well-being goods with concern. I am therefore pleased with the measures put forward by the government. I'm glad that a total accumulation is so obvious that you don't accept and allow people to come and exploit our welfare system, or that people who are in this country can take advantage of our welfare system. This applies regardless of your nationality or background. If you're called Ola and you're from Verdalen or you're called something else and you're from another place in the country, we're going to have zero tolerance for the abuse of our arrangements. Although the Progress Party is very much in agreement with the proposals put forward by the government, we should go further. We still see major challenges related to some misuse of our welfare systems. I am thinking in particular of one of the cases that occurred in Telemarksavisa last month, and similar situations have been in Stortinget on several occasions. I am thinking about the extension of the Social Services Act, where people who come to Norway, who do not have legal residence in Norway and who are not wanted in Norway, can access our welfare systems. I think most people see that as both unreasonable and incomprehensible. So we know, as this is arranged, that it's a relatively easy way to avoid the regulation. I spoke to Nav last week. There was a growing problem, where more and more people come to our country from low-cost countries in the EU area and set up sole proprietorships in Norway – without providing services, but at least they have the opportunity to work here – so that in a short time afterwards they can come to Nav and ask for welfare payments, and then they have to pay welfare payments. I think it's legitimate to ask the question: is what we want with our welfare payments, or should we look at opportunities that prevent this? Me and the Progress Party are very concerned that those who need benefits and who meet the conditions for obtaining benefits will have benefits. The Progress Party wants us to have strong and good performances – sustainable performances – and then we also need to be able to ask the question of whether we should allow, in a simple way, access to our welfare services, or whether we need to look at this issue, which is the last mentioned in Telemarksavias. Therefore, in addition to the proposals that we agree with the government, the Progress Party wants to promote further proposals that are stepping up the fight against social-security abuse, especially the organised social-security abuse. I am thinking about two things – and the rapporteur was talking about one thing. It is one of the proposals that we have made in the past, when we dealt with a major legislative amendment on combating social security abuse in the last period, namely to introduce a quarantine period on organised social security abuse in cases where there is a valid judgment. In those cases where there is a judgment of law, the Progress Party believes that it would be reasonable to look at the possibility of introducing a quarantine period, which would clearly appear to be a preventive approach to being tempted to organised crime against our well-being goods. In addition, there is another proposal that the Progress Party has raised and promoted in the past – and I have had the pleasure of debating this several times with the Minister of Labour in public debates. This is a video I've got from people working in the police department. Why not look at the possibility of better coordination, with its own unity with the people of Nav, the tax haven and the police? Social security crime can be investigated in the same way as other types of crime that have not been reported. I think it could have been a good suggestion, and a proposal that would have made it easier to detect organized social-security abuse. I wish that the Government Parties and the Council of State would look into such a proposal. If we are to succeed, we must dry up the fight against organized social security abuse. We are seeing more and more newspaper headlines pointing to the challenges Norway is facing with regard to that particular problem. Finally, I would like to point out a situation that has also emerged clearly in the case mentioned in Telemarksavias last month. When it comes to Nav that you don't see having a valid stay in Norway, you don't have to let the police know that there are people here who aren't wanted in our country and who don't have a valid stay in our country, but you have to pay them benefits. I think it is quite obvious that this should be done in a fast and effective way. I know that the Minister of Justice has previously replied that you look at the legislation here. This pressure needs to be kept up in order to put in place good rules that make it easier to report back when – between the public authorities – there is an abuse, you pay out to people who do not have a valid residence in our country. In the end, I would like to address the proposals that the Progress Party has made, which have been included in the vote. In addition, I would like to inform you that the Progress Party will support proposal No. 4, from the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2907	The representative Robert Eriksson has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2910	Social security schemes in Norway are too sick to work. If you're not too sick to work, you should be at work. Abuse or cheating on a social security scheme is not only immoral, it is also theft. It's the theft of the community, it's the thieving of the taxpayers, and it's part of undermining the common welfare systems we have. There is nothing that harms our welfare systems more than people who, year after year, get out money from the public, but who don't have the right to do so, and who deliberately go in to trick money out of the system. That's why it's important that we say clearly what we think about it morally, and it's important that we have an effective policy to expose, reveal and punish those who commit social security abuse. And the legislation on who will receive different public schemes in Norway must be so clear that it can be applied uniformly at each and every Nav office. I would like to join the call from the Progress Party on the matter that was in Telemarksavias about a person who had an illegal stay in Norway and who received support, where the Council of State said this was not in agreement with her understanding of the law as she saw the matter at the time. It's going to be interesting to see which final clarification the government will give for that kind of thing in the future. However, because we are committed to combating social security abuse – I agree with the representative of the Workers' Party that it is important to distinguish error payments from abuses, and what we are talking about here is social security abuse to a very large extent – we also agree with the measures that are being put forward. It makes sense, for example, to do so. has an obligation to legitimise. It makes sense to break down some of the barriers that have existed between the aliens and Nav. The fact that there has been no better exchange of information, including: In order to find out who has the opportunity to be in the country and not, there has been an unsustainable situation for many. It also makes sense to use the information that Nav has in a better way than today. Since there is a broad consensus on many of the – or that is well enough to say all – proposals outlined here, I would like to spend my time in an area where the Right has been concerned and where the majority of the Committee also spends some time pointing out. The disclosure of social security abuse must be balanced against another important consideration: privacy. This applies in any situation where abuse is to be detected. When the police do it, when Nav does it, and when other agencies do it, there's a balance between how much one should know about a person and how that information should be managed. There have been very large and loud discussions about privacy in this room, with many more audiences present, in matters that may have been more fundamentally important. Nevertheless, it is worth noting to all data subjects that the major threat to privacy is not necessarily the major legislative proposals, but that in every legislative proposal there are technologies, coordination and opportunities that can also be at the expense of privacy. Therefore, it is essential to weigh these considerations against each other properly. In this context, the most problematic issue here is the interconnection of registers, which means that information is collected from different registers and is routinely linked – automatically – to detect abuse. There are positive aspects to it: it means, for example, to a lesser extent, there are physical case handlers who go through the information, that there are simply fewer decent people who get access to that information, because one does it automatically. At the same time, it is problematic in view of some of the fundamental pillars of privacy considerations, one of which is that information collected for one purpose requires explicit consent to be used for another. Another is to operate as far as possible with the consent of the person for whom the information has been collected. It is also an important principle to be able to correct information about itself stored by the public. All of this, of course, is about citizens' legal certainty. It is also an important point, as set out in the European Convention on Human Rights, that there should be proportionality between the intervention proposed and the concern to be taken into account. In all these areas, the government's legislative proposals have improved. Now you can choose - it's getting closer to choice - if you want a positive or a negative angle of incidence. I think I should allow myself a positive approach, even if it is election year this year: it is very positive that the government has chosen to listen to many of the hearing bodies, especially the Data Protection Authority, who have pointed out that the original bill had some key shortcomings when it comes to privacy, for example. and – perhaps most importantly – that it was too effluent and unclear what one actually had the opportunity to ask for and collide with information. The data protection authority concluded that the legislative proposal as it existed when it was sent to the hearing was outside what could be considered as approved within the EMK 8 – i.e. it was ‘disproportionate’. But the Data Protection Authority's assessment is that after the changes and tightenings that the government has made, it is within. It's positive. In general policy, there is reason to warn against always moving at the outer edge of what is permitted by privacy policy, but it is better to move at the outer edge, inside what is likely to be allowed, than to move outside. It is also very positive, once we agree on many of the ways in which social security users are treated, that a unanimous committee in many areas also addresses different privacy considerations. I am also very pleased that a joint committee – except the Progress Party, as far as I registered – is in favour of a proposal that says that you have to be explicit in legislation and regulations on what kind of information you can extract. It may sound like a trifle, perhaps, but it is a crucial principle that explicit approval is required from the legislator who can be verified when doing first things that are problematic for privacy. At the same time, the Right, together with the Christian People's Party and probably also other parties, believes that there may still be privacy challenges in the Nav system in view of consent, as far as possible. Everyone understands that it is not possible that the conclusion of the public will be that you will not get your social security if you answer no questions about whether you believe that this information about you is to be collected in order to provide you with social security – so there are some practical considerations here. Both in terms of consent, the right to correct information and some such things, there are still challenges within the Nav system. It is also worth remembering the very strong criticism of Nav’s control activities in a report from the Data Protection Authority in May 2012. Last night I received an e-mail from a user who claimed – this has not been verified – that he had a copy of a Nav report with a post IT note with assessments of his case attached to him. It is clear that there is an anecdote, but nevertheless it can illustrate some basic privacy issues in Nav: Who has access to the information? How does it float around? Who controls who has access to the information? And what is the possibility for the user – the citizen – to gain insight and to have the impressions that might be wrong? That is why the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, having supported many of the government's measures against social security fraud, have accepted a proposal asking the government to come back to the Stortinge in an appropriate way – and that is exactly what the government likes: that we don't impose too much on it – with a review of privacy and how privacy is sought in the Nav system. Finally, I would like to address the proposals on which the Right is involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2940	The representative of Torbjørn Røe Isaksen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2943	To cheat on the tax and cheat on social security is to steal from the community, representatives have said before me, and I fully agree with that. SV and I take on the role of being a very strong defender of those who need social security and social assistance when they are sick or have no job – or when there are other conditions that make them need social assistance. Such a role also requires a lot of attention to be paid to the fact that cheating is destroying this system. It destroys trust if we don't manage to stop those who cheat on this. I think cheating on the treasure is just as bad as cheating on the social security, but I know in the social debate this turns out different. You just have to take that into account. There is an incredible amount to be recovered from increasing tax fraud and tax evasion measures. I think we should do that, but I also think we should do it in these areas. I would like to thank the President-in-Office for a very good report. I also want to thank the representative Røe Isaksen from the Right for a very good post, where he took up some of the dilemmas about privacy that I share. I just want to say a little bit about it. The obvious principle in this – as the representative from the Right addressed in a good way – is there. But I also think that in the recent debate I have seen that in a way you have had a very – a little undeserved, I think – trust in the old archival systems compared to the new ones. I understand that this has something to do with interconnection and the ability to connect and collect information, but it has also been up-to-date with very large data protection challenges related to paper archives – just as they have been said. It was also said that it would have been good if we had had rules that were so simple that it was not possible to make any mistakes. I don't think that's possible in this area. Here there are so many different areas to cover, that I think we're just going to have a very complicated code in the future. This means that making these systems work well in themselves is very important, especially because we know that fault payments are a big problem. It may be the establishment that has made a mistake, or it may be that the person who has applied for some kind of performance has made a mistake, but not for the purpose of cheating. And that's pretty bad. I have sailed on such a round, and it was not the least fun. It was resolved. There was an error that was made by the storehouse. But it's not very fun to get a case like this – and maybe someone else thinks it's cheating. I believe that much of what we do in this area is very closely related to what we do in the fight against social dumping. There is no doubt that in parts of the labour market — including where there is a high level of social dumping and undeclared work — there is a high potential for social security abuse and social security fraud. The government's efforts in this area are incredibly important, so that those who work work work under proper conditions – that taxes and taxes are paid in the right way, and that you are registered correctly and in such a way that you get the rights you need. I think it's also necessary that we look at this that there are some people who don't get what they should have. This also requires an effort by the authorities: to ensure that the people with clear rights to assistance are given it. I think that almost requires a separate action plan. Finally, a little bit about this with the quarantine, for which it's a suggestion. I am very pleased that there is a broad consensus that the quarantine related to these benefits and rights is neither suitable nor – I think – a principal possible instrument. What you have done wrong is to be punished. And what you've done wrong should be corrected. It may be that you are entitled to other rights, or in an ex post situation you may be entitled to such a benefit. Then our system is going to be so that you get what you have the right to. You're not going to get anything you don't have the right to. You're going to be punished if you do something wrong, but you're also going to get your rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2960	It is essential for confidence in public health that proper performance is provided under proper conditions in a timely manner. I will give tribute to the government for its work, for what has been presented, and for the spirit contained in the present document. The fight against social security abuse has escalated. That's good. It goes on to state that ‘work immigration and the possibility of exporting social security benefits to other countries pose additional challenges to verify that the correct performance has been provided under the right conditions’. That's very carefully said. This is a topic that is becoming increasingly demanding, and I would encourage the government to tell this in clear terms, as the basis for an open debate. That's something we all want to earn. There is really a basis for a case of your own, so that you can get the change of words necessary to ensure a general breakdown of the social security benefits that many people have agreed on. The second issue I want to address is the balance between privacy and society's need for control measures. That's a very demanding question. I am very happy that the setting in this area has come a long way further. I am very pleased with the post that Red Isaac's representative had about this, because I think that was a good way to get into the theme and made the setting and this whole relationship get better. There is also a proposal from all parties – with the exception of the Advance Party – that ‘only the information explicitly mentioned in the legislation or regulation may be obtained by mass collection’. There's a clarification, a clarification, that it only applies to what one can pick up through mass collection, and nothing else. It is such a clarification that it is incredibly essential to bring it about in order to balance control with the essential requirements of privacy. In its extension, the principle of informed consent is. There are many advantages of using too little of the administration as a basis for exercising authority. There are also proposals that go the same way. It helps to raise awareness of the recipient and thus helps prevent it. It's very important that we get progress at all on how we've behaved here. My conclusion is that it is a good setting, something more have been about. One has taken a step further on a topic that is very demanding, the topic of privacy and control measures. There are conflicting considerations that have found practical wording here, and where government and opposition – with the exception of the Progress Party – come forward with proposals that will make this clearer in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2975	This is an important issue, not least because it is revealed in Norway and in other countries that large numbers of people are involved in the misuse of welfare systems. Many hearing bodies support the efforts to prevent and detect social security fraud. Several of them are also concerned that privacy needs to be carefully assessed. It's also the committee that's been involved, as the setting shows, and as more people before me have been involved. We have previously adopted legislation and put in place measures to prevent and detect social security abuse. However, it turns out that further efforts in this area are needed, not least because we see a trend in organised social-security abuse through increasingly new and creative methods, which may be difficult to detect. We have many and good welfare systems in Norway, and it is absolutely crucial for all of us that we can have confidence that payments only benefit those who have legitimate claims. But we also need to have good privacy systems, so that no one is wrongly suspected or controlled unnecessarily and incorrectly. It is positive that the government has amended proposals in line with the input of the consultation round, and it is also positive that a majority in the Committee has made further proposals relating to privacy. At the same time, we all recognise that more measures need to be taken. For example, measures against false identity and identity need to be taken quickly. We are specifically asking that the government make proposals for legislative changes, so as to reduce problems of false identity and legitimacy. I am also very pleased that the entire committee is in favour of the changes proposed by the government in the People's Security Act, and also of agreeing to further develop and streamline existing control measures. The right and Christian People's Party has been particularly concerned with the problem of interconnection of registers, which we have also been concerned about in the past in matters relating to other registers – not least when there were debates on health registers in this room. In this case, the government has wisely listened to the Data Protection Authority’s reference to better data protection. In addition, the majority of the Committee considers that the legislation should clearly set limits on which information can be obtained and that the relevant information that can be obtained is explicitly mentioned in legislation or regulation. Informative consent is also important. I also think it is unproblematic – given good handling. That is why the majority of the Committee would also like this possibility to be given to individuals for informed consent. I think most people want to be law-abiding, and don't make mistakes. But then precise, understandable and easily accessible information about rights and obligations is absolutely crucial. Finally, it is a proposal, which was also mentioned by the representative of the Red Isaac, on which the Christian People's Party and the Right stand alone. We want, and believe it is important, a comprehensive review of how data protection should be applied for in the Nav system. In particular, it concerns the dissemination and access to stored information on individuals. I believe that the government parties could also be involved in this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e2998	Through the proposals in this proposition, we will strengthen our efforts to combat social security abuse and mispayments. The government is concerned that it is not attractive to receive benefits on an unjustified basis. Extensive fraud has been detected with Community funds, and therefore we must work systematically on this. Some suggestions we are making today, but we must not stop here. We also need to present further measures in the fight against social security abuse later. What is most important in the proposals we are making today is the access to the mass collection of information from other instances and the collusion of these with Nav's information. I want to stress that that's the way we take most of the people. 60 pst. by social security abusers are being taken today by interconnection of registers, so this is very effective. The majority of the Committee requests that only information explicitly mentioned in legislation or regulation may be obtained by mass collection. I fully agree with that, because this is a direct consequence of the bill. I agree with the Committee that the proposed new provisions on compulsory social security obligations should not be practised in such a way as to exclude serious diseases from health care. It should be ensured by a good dialogue between the department and the medical association. Then there's a suggestion I choose to comment on, and it's about creating a separate unit. I believe that this is not the right way to use police resources. I agree that we need to have better cooperation between the various agencies such as the Employment and Welfare Act, the Tax Act and the Police, but most of the issues that Nav is working on in this area are about mispayments. It's not about deliberate abuse. There I believe it is very important that the police take care of the issues where it is revealed that it is abuse, and investigates them. That is why I believe police resources should be used for the most serious issues. There's also become a very high level of punishment in these kinds of cases. There are sentences of up to five years and six months for social security abuse, so this is something that the police are increasingly taking seriously, and also something that Ecocrim is actively working with. So there's been a question of professional secrecy. What came to light in the case that several people have been involved in, is something that I have asked for a sample to work on and deliver an adjustment on during April. It is that the obligation of professional secrecy exists today that Nav does not have an obligation to provide information to the foreign authorities. There are very good reasons to change it. It cannot be that people who have been expelled from Norway should receive Nav’s benefits. Today, the provisions are designed to allow you to receive benefits only after transportation. However, there is a question of whether this is the right provision — whether there should not be others, for example: the non-resident authorities, which meet this requirement, so that people do not starve in the street. I am now actively working on this matter, because it is important that our arrangements are not abused. The right proposes that a review be carried out of how data protection is protected by the Working and Welfare Act. Sensitive personal data shall not flow freely around the Nav system. It's not like that either. The Directorate of Labour and Welfare gives a lot of attention to the issues in this area. I would also like to mention that the Government of the Privacy Policy – prospects and challenges point to the importance of managing access to information. It shall be examined how logging and transparency are practised in the relevant sectors and whether practices should be changed. Here we have to have a critical review of how we work. This is also a work that Nav prioritises today. The majority of the Committee is concerned that it should be clear to the individual which information can be obtained in connection with the social security application. Information is already available on the monitoring of the establishment by filling in forms and letters of decision. I want to make sure that this information is as good as possible. Legal provisions and regulations must also become more informative at this point. It is important to put in place better and more complementary rules on interconnection of registers. Finally, I would like to say that I am pleased that the legislative proposals have been supported by the Committee. The presentation of mass information criteria will help to make the Working and Welfare Seat more focused in its controls and will contribute to better resource use.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e3021	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e3024	I am very pleased with the signals given by the Council of State that there are good reasons to change the legislation, so that Nav can pass on messages when you see there are people in Norway who are staying here illegally and who have access to our welfare services. Then I understand that the home is in the regulation of the Social Services Act because it is possible to pay this. Then I have two questions for the Council of State. One is: When can we expect a change in the law from the government to ensure that Nav can provide information when there are citizens who are illegally staying in Norway and who are seeking welfare benefits? And the second is: will the Council of State review the regulation that was introduced on 1 January 2012 to see if there are any changes that must also be made there and that will prevent access to welfare benefits when staying illegally in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e3031	This regulation was something the municipalities asked for because emergency assistance was given for a short period of time for people who had been expelled from the country. And then you made a foundation for this. I'm not sure if there's a need for this home. Therefore, we consider whether there are others who should be responsible for providing the necessary living before expulsion has taken place. That is what is important, that there should be a rapid deportation of people who have been expelled from the country. In the case of legislation on professional secrecy, I now receive a position from a working group during April. It has looked at several parts of privacy between different parts of our welfare state, but I have asked them to work extra quickly at this point. I want to come back to Stortinget as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e3038	It is important that people are transported quickly from Norway, but we all know that no matter how clear the political intentions are, in many cases it will be difficult to get them out as quickly as we would like. It is therefore important for the Council of State to clarify this issue. My question really concerns privacy and the balance around it. I am fully aware that this is not the way information flows around the Nav system, as the Council of State put it, but the question here is whether privacy concerns are adequately addressed. The questions are, for example:: Who has access to information about me? What are the options for correcting them? Is it logged who has access to information? So my question to the Council of State is, what concrete action is being taken to follow up what the government has pointed out in the past?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e3047	I would like to stress that in this home there is no right to social assistance on a general basis until you have left the country, but it is a provision that you can get a social benefit until you can actually leave the country. If it's two days until a plane goes, you only get social benefits for the two days. If you choose to train an exit, you don't have any rights. So I want to say that in terms of privacy, there is a very close dialogue between the Data Protection Authority and Nav. It hasn't always been that way that you've agreed in the first place. That is why Nav has constantly addressed the objections raised by the Data Protection Authority. So I mean here we have a very close dialogue. We're working on this all the time. Now we're working on ICT Nav, where you get electronic solutions in several areas. There privacy is very central.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e3054	I think the Council of State was well-informed with its answer, so I'd like to ask the Council of State, what would you say now?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e3059	It was nice. I know the President is very careful that we keep the time. That's why I'm glad I got the question again. It is clear that when we get ICT Nav, where we get electronic solutions in far more areas, we also have much better control over how information is extracted. This is a very central part of the big ICT project we now have.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e3066	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e3069	Let me join more and establish the following: Drug abuse is the theft of the community and must be combated as other crime. I am therefore pleased that the courts are reacting to this. The attention to such cases has a preventive effect, as illustrated by a case that is currently pending before the District Court in Larvik. Drug abuse is also an attack on the welfare community as such. Those who unjustly try to exploit the welfare schemes for their own gain are, in fact, profitors at the expense of the community. The fact that we have exposed extensive social security abuse in recent years is serious. It's in itself the expression of failing social morality, though I'm far from sure that social morality has become so much worse than before. Rather, I think that the increased effort to detect this kind of crime is revealing more people. And that's good. The size of the population has increased in the second year in the fight against such crime, and the Employment and Welfare Act has also been given better and more effective means of preventing and detecting social-security abuse. It is good to see that this work produces results. Thus, it is now appropriate to extend the possibility of obtaining information on social security beneficiaries, to strengthen the obligation to legitimise persons requiring social security benefits, to clarify the rules for electronic collection of information by means of register checks and to provide automatic access to information between the foreign authorities and the Working and Welfare Seat in cases where the decisions of the non-resident authorities are essential for social security rights. The collection of data by the State of employment and welfare through electronic register checks is now mainly limited to the tax rate and is then linked to tax settlements. Of course, Nav also uses information from other registers, but then upon request in individual cases. I see clearly that an extended access to the collection of registry data is contrary to general privacy considerations, and I do not conceal that I prefer to see personal data from different registers continue to be based on legitimate suspicion. Nevertheless, like the rest of the committee, I see good reasons for improving the efficiency of foreign control. Unfortunately, we have learned that increasing immigration is up-to-date with new and more effective measures in this field. The interconnection of registry data between the foreign authorities and Nav can obviously prevent abuse, but I feel, like the majority of the committee, that such access should not be a carte blanche for the collection and linking of data. It is necessary to draw limits on which information can be collected, and, I would like to add, for whom such information can be handled. In fact, this can help to strengthen privacy considerations. Then it is necessary to stress that the vast majority of those who receive social security benefits are righteous people, who have the right and the right to the benefits that belong to them. In fact, I think there are far more people who are striving to get the benefits they claim than there are social security recipients who are abusing good welfare schemes. This raises another and necessary debate, the one about the individual's struggle to assert his right to Nav. But we might have to come back to that on another occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e3086	I will be very brief and just explain an incursion that has occurred in the setting. I see that the progress is out of letters C and D in the setting. It is an incurrency; the Progress Party supports and will vote for both the letters C and D. So actually, there's an overall committee behind the two proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e3092	Then the president noticed. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e3108	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e3119	The issue we are going to deal with today is about older people in the workplace, and how we use the labour force and the joy of work that we have in the 60s and 70s. It's a pleasure for me – if I don't want to call myself an older employee, I have passed 60 – to be the case rapporteur in this case, especially when it gets such a solid outcome as it now seems. But I'll get back to that. Specifically, the original proposal on the so-called 70-year limit in the Working Environment Act is about raising it to 75 years. It's high time we started this discussion. I would therefore like to extend a great deal of thanks to the proponents of the Progress Party who got this discussion on the track – again. In 2011, we were introduced a new pension scheme and, in my opinion, a very good system. With this system, we no longer have a fixed retirement age, on the contrary, we have a flexible retirement system between 62 and 75 years old, and where you earn pension entitlements up to the age of 75. Many people make use of the flexibility that has been provided, for example. sees that so many people take advantage of the possibility to withdraw a pension, but still work alongside it. But parts of the law – the parts we are going to talk about today – have not followed. This applies not only to the 70-year limit of the Employment Environment Act, but also to the limits of the Civil Service Act and all the special age limits spread throughout the legislation, as well as to the occupational age limits of the Supreme Court. So older workers can't always combine social security and work as they might wish. If you're a caregiver, you have a special age limit of 65 years. You work in some private businesses, such as Mutually, you have to relate to a mandatory limit of 67 years. And even though your company does not have such an internal business frontier, the Working Environment Act says that the border is at 70 years. The Civil Service Act has a similar limit. Faced with the pension reform, we can say one thing about today's legislation: this is not related. At the same time, we know that there are some good and some less good counter-arguments against changing today's law. Everything is not black-and-white or red-blue here in the world. For example, neither the Civil Service Act nor the Health and Safety at Work Act require that an employment relationship be terminated at the age of 70. If employers want an employee who reaches the age of 70 to continue, they are free to do so. And of course, there may be cases where an older worker does not maintain the same productivity as other employees. Special rules for older workers in the law, such as the right to an additional holiday week and the right to a reduced position and more leave, can help to make older workers more expensive than those in other ages. Such things can be a challenge for small businesses with small margins. It can also affect older workers themselves by making it more difficult for them to get a new job of 50 plus in the labour market, and we know that it is difficult enough for this group already to get a new job. These are important and relevant objections that we as legislators must take into account when dealing with such a case. Such objections should not be raised, particularly when they include: come from the social partners. They are always worth listening to in such questions. But that doesn't mean we can stand still in this case and let things stay just like before. As mentioned above, current borders are not linked to the new pension reform. You simply can't adjust your life-style pensions while refusing to compensate people for it by working any longer. Moreover, as the wave of old age arrives, we cannot afford to throw out experienced, competent and motivated labour. And not least, the 70-year-old limit was fully restored in 1917. It was another time. But perhaps the most important argument for changing the law is the normative effect of the law. It is true, as the opponents of changing the law often object, that today's laws open up the possibility of continuing to work if both the employer and the employee so wish. What you forget then is the very strong signals it sends to have such a limit. What the law says in practice at the 70s is that everyone, or most of them, is not usable in the workplace after a certain date, and that's not true. As former Swedish National Council of Tora Aasland of 69 years, it said in October to Stavanger Aftenblad: ‘Standing more of us are more than competent enough to continue even if we pass 70 years.’ And signals about something else should not be sent by the law. It is not just Tora Aasland who has understood the value of older people in work, and we have recently seen a growing cross-political consensus on the issue of age limits. The Right Party and the Progress Party entered in 2010 to raise the age limit in the Working Environment Act. Now we see that the Christian People's Party has proposed the same thing in its program design. And that's not just in the opposition we see a development. Last year, Minister of Labour Hanne Bjurstrøm wrote that raising the age limit can lead to negative attitudes towards older people in general working life. From today's business no later than today, we see a labour minister with a more moderate and changeable tone. We also see that there is a proposal to raise the 70-year limit at the National Labour Party meeting. This movement is reflected in the setting on which the Storing will take a decision today. This is an idea whose time has come. Age limits are going to be raised or removed, it's essentially a question of how. There is a cross-political desire for consistency between the age limits in the law; there is no doubt about it. What is now the challenge is to do this in the right way, to take over and meet the important objections that have arisen, as well as to be able to separate the important objections from the less important ones. That is why the Right has agreed to make a compromise with the government parties and the Christian People's Party in this matter. We will therefore ask the government today to investigate this matter in consultation with the social partners, and to come back to the Stortinget with a comprehensive investigation during the spring of 2014. Such an investigation must address the field in its full scope — not only the 70-year limits of the Working Environment Act and the Civil Service Act, but also the special age limits and the opportunity to set occupational age limits. Finally, let me underline: the right supports the intention of the proposal of the Progress Party. And once again, let me thank the proposers for getting this matter up on the agenda. But rather than mechanically increase the limit in one law now, we want to address a whole issue that addresses the whole age limit issue in its full scope, one that meets the objections of employers and the rest of the world of work. This we think is the way to do it. I am convinced that the majority here today will reach a very good decision and recommend the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e3156	A broad majority of the Stortinget, all parties except the Advance Party, asks the government to assess the consequences of an increase or removal of the legal age limit of 70 years in Norwegian working life. The government is given a deadline to make such an assessment in spring 2014. The minority, who have also promoted the proposal for a representative we are discussing today, does not see the need for such an impact assessment. This is typical of this party's understanding of Norwegian labour policy. They believe and believe that today's 70th anniversary limit can be raised to 75 years with a fingertip and without the social partners being included on advice. But let's not dwell on it. I note that a large majority in the United Kingdom now believe that time is needed to raise the legal age limit, so that there is consistency between the good intentions of the pension reform and the work environment law. The purpose of the pension reform, which, in my view, is the most important freedom of choice reform we have implemented since the turn of the century, is precisely to encourage older workers to work longer because many want to do so, and because employment needs their experience, competence and workforce. We then find that the current age limit, both the legal age limit and the different age limits set by each enterprise, is counterproductive to the purpose of the pension reform. So I'm going to hurry up and say that today's debate on age limits is really a debate on dismissal protection. So, while a retirement justified by age is considered to be inconclusive before the age of 70, the employment environment law states that it is the case after the age of 70. The Labour Environment Act has rules of discrimination, including with regard to age. The provisions take the view that age in itself is not a cause for renunciation. Termination as a result of age is by definition discriminatory. Nevertheless, at the age of 70, discrimination will cease. So now we've lived with the 70s since 1917. It is incorporated and – I would say – accepted. We have also lived with and accepted the law on age limits for public officials, a law that, in my opinion, is age discrimination. Public servants and women are required to retire at the latest by the end of the month after the age of 70. While the Labour Environment Act opens up the possibility for employees and employers to work beyond 70 years, public servants and women meet a bastant demand to leave the labour market at this time. I allow myself to believe that such discrimination is not only contrary to Norwegian law – it is also contrary to EU law. The pension reform and the fact that we all live longer is the direct reason why we are now asking the government to raise the age limit question. Life expectancy is increasing on average by two months each year. We already see that more and more people work longer, even though the very few break the 70th anniversary limit. However, the fact that employees can raise retirement, work and earn new pension points to 75 years of age means that more and more people will do so when it is opened up. In a situation of minimal unemployment and high labour demand, older workers represent an important labour resource. But I also see, of course, that there are arguments for keeping the 70-year limit – both from the employer and the employee’s side counts the consideration for a decent departure. Unfairly, difficult situations may arise when employers have to cancel older workers because they are unable to do a satisfactory job if we remove the age limit. But it can slowly be claimed, completely independent of age. Although I tend to believe that people’s working capacity is not primarily dependent on age, I see, of course, that there are professions or industries with higher health and safety risks than other professions, and that it may be appropriate to maintain a compulsory retirement age. But in my view, age alone is an unacceptable ground for dismissal. However, I understand that we cannot have a statutory and contractual work where it is entirely left to the individual employee to decide when to leave the labour market. That's why this question is so complicated. It reminds me of a story from Trondheim, a little back in time, when one heroic famous newspaper editor one day met one of the longest-departed rapporteurs on the city's walkway North Gate. The editor, who had a significant share in his own newspaper, kept it going far beyond the age limit, and it was those who thought that his editorials were probably not adapted to the present. The conversation was conducted on age and age limits, and the editor was asked if he did not soon intend to drop his editor's pen. I don't do that until I start writing nonsense, the editor answered. And who is it that evaluates it, answered the follow-up question. That's what my wife, the editor found out after a pause of thought. The woman was something older than himself. The point, of course, is that we don't always have enough self-intelligence to understand when it's time to give up. Some countries have left the age limit issue to the social partners. The social partners also have a strong influence on the legislation in force in the Norwegian working life. By the way, it was supposed to be missing. On the one hand, age limits are also attached to collective agreements, and we have company age limits — usually also as a result of agreements between employers and employees. I would therefore like to stress that for the Workers' Party and – I believe – the broad majority in this Chamber, it is quite unthinkable to raise the legal age limit in Norwegian working life without the social partners being included on advice and listening to, before the next question is raised by the Stortinget. Therefore, in this context, I should be careful to provide guidance for the discussions to take place, except to indicate that there is a clear desire of the Biggest that there must be consistency between age limits and pension reform, so that everyone who wants to do so has real access to the potential of the pension reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e3182	I am well pleased with what has been said by many from this pulpit so far. This is mainly about whether there should be a basis in the Working Environment Act that says that when you reach a certain age, the employer should have the right to dismiss you. I fully agree with the representative, Mr Gullvåg, that that is not in itself a good enough reason. It is a law that has expired – it is a 96-year-old law that has also been passed on by several of them, both case rapporteurs and representatives. The Progress Party has raised this matter innumerably, and has made several proposals for representatives, proposals for amendments to state budget proposals, etc. I'm glad that rhetorically in this room – rhetorical in this room – we meet. However, there is still no desire to make changes to the Working Environment Act. When we are done here today, the majority in the United Kingdom have said that they choose to continue to discriminate against older people in the labour market. I respect that many questions are complicated, difficult and need investigations. But I cannot quite understand and understand why it is difficult to take a clear position – do you say yes to discriminating against older people who are 70 years old, and that there should be a reason for dismissal in itself, or do you say no to such specific provisions? For me and for the Progress Party, it's easy: it's about saying no, it's about giving everyone who can contribute to the working life, who wants to contribute to the working life, and who every single day is able to deliver incredibly well in the working life, the opportunity to continue to be a part of the working life and not be stamped out of work just because they reach a certain age. I also want to point out some of the company's internal agreements. It is true that many companies have intra-corporate agreements through the negotiation system. However, most intra-corporate contracts are not agreements where the employer side has been negotiated with the employee side. The mutual judgment is a good example in this respect. There are the people who, on a board of directors, have decided on an internal age limit and who have been supported in the legal system that it is legitimate and right. In my mind, it is not legitimate and right that the ‘Gutteklubben Grei’ can sit in the business room and make such rules, which also override the provisions of the Working Environment Act. It is far from possible in the head of the Progress Party. That is why we have been fighting for many years to change this rule – fighting to eliminate discrimination in the Work Environment Act, and ensuring that people are given the opportunity to work for as long as they want and as long as they can. I perceive that there is a rhetoric from the Workers' Party in particular, where several representatives have gone out in the media and said, "We're going to clean this up, and we're going to sort this out, and we're going to remove this." I also feel that the Council of State is going a long way, at the latest in today's business today, saying that this is something that should be cleaned up. Let me quote from Today's Business: "A 70-year-old is not like a 70-year-old used to be," says Huitfeldt, pointing out that the 70-year-old came in 1917." Furthermore, today's Business writes: ‘Although she wants people to stay longer in work, Huitfeldt stresses that she sees important arguments against removing the age limit. She fears that the consequence may be that employers will hesitate even more than today to hire older workers.’ My question is then: Why do employers worldwide have to work if they do not have a special rule in the Working Environment Act that says that I have the right to kick you when you are 40? I can't agree to that logic. And the Council of State goes on to say, "The biggest challenge today is to recruit workers over 55 years of age." I agree with the Council of State because she says, ‘Workers’ argument is that it may be more difficult to hire older workers for people to determine their own retirement age. These are very important arguments.’ A large part of the pension reform, the principles of the pension reform, which the Progress Party disagreed with, was that you could combine pensions and work after 62 years, where you could decide for yourself when to retire. You could make your own independent, free choices if you were 62, 63, 67, 70, or 72. At the same time, this room encourages every day: we need labour, and older people need to be used — and that resource must be used in the workplace. That's why we've also created a pension scheme that allows you to earn a pension until you're 75 years old. But you still choose to wait to decide if it's important, and if it's right that they get that opportunity, because today you choose to continue to maintain the rule that allows you to kick people at the age of 70. I don't understand that logic either. I think it is important to note one of the quotes in today's Business that comes from the Minister of Labour, which at least gives me a clear picture that there is a lot of rhetoric going on in this case, and that there are no promises that you have changed your course and that you want to sign this out. What you're actually saying is you're going to cut a sample. On the question from the journalist, the answer is: ‘Huitfeldt does not mean what the outcome of an investigation is. We have not concluded in any way, but I believe it is important to listen to the employers. Employers are supposed to hire people, and they must be willing to hire seniors.’ In the quotation earlier, the Council of State said that she was willing to listen to exactly the same employers, but the good and important arguments of theirs that said that the problem if we removed this 70-year rule was that they did not have the opportunity to cancel people by hiring them, so a logical flaw is then to those degrees. It reminds me that this matter can really be summed up with the old saying that when you don't want something to happen, you set up a committee. I think it's a shame, I think it's sad that that's what's the starting point, and that's what's the actual relationship in this debate. We've had this case so many times. I respect the need for rounds. What the Progress Party is asking for is a change in the law. Then everyone in this room knows that when you promote a change in the law, the parties are given the opportunity to comment on the matter. It's being sent to the hearing. If our proposal had been adopted today, the parties – as we have an ongoing salary settlement – could have been invited to it tonight to discuss it in the wage settlement now in ours. Then I agree that it will be important and proper to also look at the special age limit and to look at all the age limits in other types of legislation. It has also been said by the government that it is necessary to get back in the context of the pension reform, without having received any feedback or signals about when that kind of issue comes. But it's a completely different matter from the age limit, the right that employers should have in the Environmental Protection Act to be able to cancel employees at the age of 70. I think we should be so honest and honest with each other that we keep the two things separate, but also agree that we need cleanups on both sides of that limit. So I'm sorry to say that you use the same rhetoric that you've used before; you have to consider without anything happening. You have to take it with the parties. There have been many wage settlements since we first promoted this proposal in 2006, and there has been a reasonable opportunity to bring it with the parties. That once again you just choose to set up a committee without agreeing to eliminate this discrimination, I think I'm sad, and I think that's a pity. I wish for a far more offensive biging. Finally, I would like to address the motion put to the House by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e3228	The representative Robert Eriksson has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e3231	First, I would like to join the post of the representative of Gullvåg. It is logical that, when pension reform provides opportunities for retirement up to 75 years of age, there is also protection against age discrimination up to 75 years of age. The flexibility of the new pension scheme will not be real to everyone if not there. So it's probably like that among those who haven't earned enough pension, or full pension, before they're 67 years old, there might be someone who doesn't have any particular health opportunity to work especially anymore. There are many women who have heavy professions, and who may even have had to work part-time to do it. But the possibility should be there. In fact, many people are using this option today, because not all employers are using the Environmental Protection Act or have special age limits that they claim with zeal. I believe that this issue should be resolved, but it should be resolved with the social partners in a unified understanding that does not create conflicts. I have been discussing this issue for several years, and I have probably experienced both good and bad arguments against removing the age limit. I see it this way that if there is a relationship with the employee and the workplace where there is a need for termination, it can affect any age. It might as well be the case with a 30-year-old or a 40-year-old who might be with a 67-year-old or 70-year-old. So if that's what it's all about, then it's probably the employers who feel that that's their problem, that's what they're doing, that's what they need to get better procedures, and that's how they handle dismissals properly. This may not be a good enough argument to maintain the 70-year age limit. It's true that a lot of people are broken and want to work beyond that time, and the most fundamental thing in that is that the pension system provides the opportunity to earn up to 75 years, and that with the law we should not be able to prevent people from using that opportunity by hand. So I'm looking forward to this question being investigated, and you're actively working with the parties to solve it. I want a solution to that. But I also know that there's going to be a tough debate around some of the special age limits, because many organizations think of it as a good thing they've negotiated up to. That's why I'm probably a little surprised by the Progress Party, which believes that they should be able to remove this with a pen stroke, without having been negotiating about it, and that it is assessed against other issues that perhaps those organisations need to solve in such a process. I think that's reasonable, because there's an interaction in terms of this type of agreement, where age limits are going to go up against other types of benefits, and also pension schemes negotiated in many private companies. But the political signal from here is clear, from an overall increase, that there is a desire to look at this, and that some of these age limits that are not entirely consistent with the needs of individuals, or the need for society to get more people to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e3248	First, I need to comment on the chairman of the committee, Robert Eriksson, who in very strong order is attacking the Council of State for the interview she has given in today's Business today. I think it's shooting pretty strongly over the targets, shooting over the blink. The will to change that the Council of State is making there, I believe on the contrary, that the Progress Party should also give credit for it. The 70-year limit came in 1917, at which time life expectancy for both women and men was about 20 years lower than today. The workload is also quite different for most professions. One of the main issues of the government is that one should facilitate an individual to stay longer in work and postpone retirement. That's a lot of good arguments for it. There are also strong public health arguments for that. Having a job to go to is not least important to the whole well-being of man. It applies both before retirement and after retirement. Those who have the opportunity to go to a post-employment activity in relation to their working capacity, you know, you know, the world of the lush people who are allowed to step down gradually on their efforts. The Employment Environment Act today states that the employer can cancel an employee when he reaches the age of 70, while the retirement limit has now been raised to 75 years. I am very proud that a majority, all except the Advancement Party, are involved in a proposal where a ‘will the Government, in cooperation with the social partners, return to the Grand Duchy with an assessment of the consequences of an increase or removal of the 70-year limit’. I also think it is wise that an assessor assesses the removal of the occupational age limit in the Working Environment Act. What the Council of State has now done, to launch a departmental internal investigation with a reference group from the employees’ and employers’ organisations and two senior organisations, I think is very good. It shows that there is a power of action at the Council of State, she takes care of things, just after the Storting – yes, even before the Stortinget – has dealt with it. That's what I think is exemplary, and that's why I was also so clear in my point that the main spokesman of the Progress Party here is so Krass. I don't think that – not – is the basis for that. In my opinion, there are good arguments to remove the opportunities for occupational age limits in the Working Environment Act, and I think it is essential to look at it carefully. I don't, like the Council of State, agree that it's up to the individual seas to decide when to go off. I think that will lead to many major problems. One must have an age limit in the Working Environment Act. What age limit, and perhaps for which occupations to raise the age limit, is an important topic to discuss. On the other hand, the burden on the labour market is very different for different groups of people. Many still have operations that are demanding physically and mentally, and thus one must also look at flexibility in relation to them. But that one should have defined age limits, I think I'm a necessity in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e3268	It is a well-known fact that Norway will face major challenges in the future in terms of the need for labour, due to an increase in the life expectancy of the population, which most people have experienced. This is particularly true in the health and social sector, according to SSB figures. We must therefore facilitate that more people can do more work. Increasing the age limit in the Working Environment Act will then be one measure to promote this. However, in order to ensure that workers are given the opportunity to complete their professional career in a dignified manner, the Christian People's Party nevertheless believes that it is appropriate to maintain an upper limit on retirement. A good senior policy shall both prevent the exclusion and motivate the seniors to continue their work. Therefore, personnel policy, both in the public and private sectors, needs to put the working environment and skills development for the seniors on the agenda much more than what we see today. A Joint Committee has stated that it is important that the different age limits of the legislation are as consistent as possible. When pension entitlements are earned, the living adjustment means that employees have to stay longer in work for full earnings. With today's rules on the 70-year limit in the Working Environment Act, you can risk having to finish work at the age of 70 and thus not get full earnings. A short time ago it was known that the Hospital Inland in its pension agreement with KLP has a special clause that says that employees over 65 years of age who have full earnings can be asked to leave the employment, and if they do so, I have heard. In my view, the State which owns regional health businesses must ensure good senior policy here and especially in its own bodies. That's why I want to ask the State Council, or the government -- it's another government council that might also have to look at it -- to look at the matter in question and make sure that employees are not discriminated against unreservedly because of age. The age limit in the Working Environment Act, as many have said here today, has been established since 1917. Given the great change in our life span, it is high time that the age limit in working life was extended. It is therefore good for the government, in cooperation with the social partners, to look at the consequences of an upsurge or possibly the removal of the 70-year limit when it is legitimate – we also have the rules of the game – and then come back to Stortinget with a case on this. This Christian People's Party has joined in. Finally, I just want to mention that the Christian People's Party in today's program has a limit of 72 years. That is why we support the intention of the proposal and hope that the government will come after, if not for a very long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e3283	As many people have been in their posts, the 70-year limit was adopted in 1917. But the pension scheme at the time it was developed, already in the 1700s, for officials, was about a widow's pension. Only the widows were going to get a pension. And why not the one who had been employed? It was simply not common to live after you had finished working. It says something about the changes we've been going through in recent years. Overall, the work on pension reform has produced very good results. We have done so in close cooperation with the employers' and employees' organisations. It's a very important part of the Norwegian model. The adoption of a matter that is so important to the parties, in the hall without a process, without any involvement, I would say breaks very fundamentally with the Norwegian working life model. In addition, it is not right to include it in the spring pay bill. This is an interim settlement. There is then no way to deal with issues that are not included in the protocol, and the pension is not transferred from the previous settlement and is therefore not included in the protocol for this year. Therefore, I would warn very strongly, both on a principle and on a general basis, against the Storting adopting decisions that are contrary to what the parties are involved in, and, not least, adopting things that are important for the wage settlement that are not in a protocol. So I would say that there are a lot of arguments to raise the age limit: we get better health, we live longer, and the individual has a lot of opportunities to work longer. We need more workers, and seniors in the workplace are a very important resource. It's today 11 pst. of those aged between 67 and 74 who are in working life. It's been an increase, and it's very good. In comparison, there were 65.8 pst. at work between 55 and 60 years of age. I believe that the biggest challenge in today's working life is to make more people in their 60s stand as long as possible. We've done that very much, but we have to do even more. The 70-year limit may help to prevent unworthy dismissals due to aggravation of old age. That's why I'm a little surprised that it's a bombastic fact that getting off at 70 years is discrimination, but getting off at 75 years is obviously not discrimination. If on a principle one is against a retirement age, the same arguments must be presented as strongly and in principle for a 75-year limit as for a 70-year limit. Employers’ organisations have stated that raising the age limit will lead to a risk of employers refusing to hire seniors. What is important, and what many employers do to help make seniors longer at work, are among other things. to introduce longer holidays, more adaptation – a number of measures to ensure that seniors remain longer. For some employers this has a cost. Therefore, it is important that we contribute to more employers taking responsibility and recruiting seniors. I am concerned that the Norwegian Senior Political Barometer has revealed that one in three leaders has not assessed calling applicants if they are over 55–57 years old. It's the biggest problem, and it helps us to have very low flexibility in working life after 50 years of age. I think that's one of the most important things. That's why I just have to say in a loud and clear way that in the 70s, I'm in doubt, because there are strong counter-arguments going on. But I'm also in doubt in 70 years, which was a limit we set when people lived much shorter, is the right limit. It seems that everyone here in the hall is for some limit somewhere, but you're somewhat uncertain whether you've done the right thing with the limit that was set in 1917. I would also like to stress that the 70-year limit does not in any way imply an obligation to leave. Many continue to work even after the age of 70. The majority of the Committee calls on the government, in cooperation with the social partners, to return to Stortingen with an assessment of the consequences of the lifting or removal of the 70-year limit during the spring of 2014. What is important is this with the occupational age limits. There have been legal proceedings, and there have been very many strong discussions about it. Therefore, this is also a very central part of the work to be done in cooperation with the reference group. I am pleased that we are now getting a thorough review and assessment of the important issues of the age limit in working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e3315	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e3318	I have been an employer myself; I have my own business and have employed a number of people. I don't understand the rhetoric. Could the Council of State be so kind as to explain to me why she fears that employers will hesitate to hire if they do not have a statutory right to kick them by maintaining a limit of 70 years? Why, then, is it more difficult to hire seniors — or as it says: raising the age limit makes seniors less attractive. Why do the seniors become less attractive in working life by raising the age limit in the Working Environment Act compared to having a statutory right to the age at which you are entitled to kick people? I can't keep up with that rhetoric. It is possible there is something significant here that I have not understood, but I would like to have it thoroughly explained, so that I understand it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e3325	This is not rhetorical, this is what employers say. The NHO tells it, others tell it, that having seniors in the workplace, especially as they approach 70 years, requires something extra. It requires more organisation to prevent muscle and skeletal disorders. Many provide more flexible working time arrangements. So it requires some of the employers. Therefore, we should listen very carefully to employers who say that they will include them, but I am concerned when I see that there are very few who employ new people over 55 years of age. When one of the three asked managers says they haven't even considered calling applicants if they are over 55 years old, I think it's a very clear signal that we have to contribute to several of these being called.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e3332	It was obvious that the NHO and others believe it – the ‘others’ were not mentioned. I wonder who it might be. You talk about the elderly need more organization, but here we talk about people who are healthy, here we talk about people who want to contribute more. I don't think Norway's Football Federation, to take a banal example, has done some extensive work to ensure that Egil 'Drillo' Olsen is still the head of the country and has passed 70 years. That's an excellent idea. My questions go to another of the statements made by the Council of State. Why is it more difficult to hire older people if people are to determine their own retirement age? Is it not, as I said from the Chair, one of the foundations of the pension reform, one of the measures of the pension reform, that people should be better able to have flexibility to choose their retirement age, combine pensions and jobs, and that people should be encouraged to work more easily? Or is there something fundamental here that I have misunderstood about the principles of the pension reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e3341	There are no countries in the world that have such a high level of protection against dismissal as Norway and at the same time have a much higher age limit. I just want to stress that I think this is a difficult question. I don't think it's just empty rhetoric to listen to those employers who actually say they have to organize more for seniors. That is why I think it is wrong that the individual should decide the retirement age himself. As far as I can see from the proposal put forward by the Progress Party, that is not to be decided either, but it is to have an age limit of 75 years. So if you're basically opposed to age discrimination, the Progress Party should go in order that you don't have any special limit at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e3348	One thing is the law, and what the laws say about one thing or another, that we've discussed here today. Another thing is the practice of an employer. It's normative. I mean, for example. that, in many cases, the country should take the lead as a good example in its employer policy. It may concern the recruitment of disabled persons or the provision of facilities for the elderly in the workplace. Unfortunately, it's not always like this. For example, in the last month, See that the Hospital Inland has sent a letter to its employees over 66 years of age asking them to resign within 10 days, otherwise a cancellation process will be initiated. I don't think that's a good employer policy from a public enterprise. My question to the Council of State is therefore: What should the government do to facilitate the state and the public which the employer is to provide for older workers and to contribute to changing attitudes?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e3355	My claim is that the state contributes a lot to facilitating older workers, including the elderly. longer holidays than younger workers. So there's a lot of things going on. But it is clear that the state too can become even better. In the case of people with disabilities, we don't count it in the state, for example. in the Ministry of Labour, because a disability cannot always be seen on the outside. But we are now going ahead with the new proposals we have, with wage subsidies to employ people in the state who have disabilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e3360	I want to hear something more tangible about the government's attitudes. Unfortunately, I have not cut myself off, but I wonder if it was Gudbrandsdøln Dagningen or another newspaper that could tell that when this matter was known from the Hospital of Inland, the Minister of Labour was asked. Then I think they asked another government council, and then they even asked the finance minister. None of these three state councils would answer the paper in this case. I can understand that you don't want to run with shady management. However, it is important that these Councils have an attitude, and this occasion perhaps the Council of State should use to give it to us.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e3365	My attitude is that employers should help employees at least to reach their age limit and, if possible, even longer, if possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e3370	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e3375	I am not least surprised by the progress of the party in the Chamber today. It is not new that the Progress Party wants to overrun the social partners. It's actually in the party's own tradition, and I think the Progress Party, as they act now, just confirms its attitude towards organized working life. I stress that the social partners obviously have their fears if this party were to come to government after the fall's fall. But that's really not why I took the floor, it was to stress that the important thing in the assessment of age limits is the protection against dismissal. I agree with the Council of State that there is no fundamental difference between having an age limit of 70 or 75 years, as long as age is considered the sole ground for dismissal. For this reason, the majority of this room has tabled a proposal to ask for an assessment of the consequences of raising or removing the age limit. Moreover, it is possible to open the possibility of workers continuing to work beyond 70 years of age with a 70-year limit. But I'm not here to dictate what view the social partners should have on such a question. I want us to help open up access to the possibility of making the pension reform real for all workers in Norwegian working life – not just for those who are in the liberal professions and who are currently continuing beyond the legal age limit. The main thing, in my opinion, is to get rid of the age limit law in the first place, which represents an obligation for employees to leave at the first month of transition after age 70, which in my view is clearly discriminatory for older workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e3385	As the rapporteur on the subject, I would like to thank you for the debate and for the work done by the Committee. I am very pleased with the broad agreement – to the broad review with the parties – of all the age limits we have raised today, both in terms of the labour environment law, the civil servants' law, the occupational age limits and the special age limits, or none, as stated in the statement: ‘removal or removal’. I am also pleased that they have agreed on the principle that no working Norwegians will have to have a ‘best before’ stamp in their foreheads any longer. State councils shall collect a sample. It's a tool she has. She has had an expectation with her from Stortinget today: When will she or her successor come back to Stortinget? Of course, the government also has several tools in the toolbox. Older workers have the skills required by the labour market and industry. In the Norwegian state sector is 24 pst. of the employees 54 years of age plus. The Minister of Labour said in today's Business: ‘The biggest challenge today is to recruit workers over 55 years of age.’ The OECD has pointed to some important policy options to encourage longer employment or to recruit adult workers. In 2006, they made recommendations for action in three areas to increase employment among older people. One of these was that the employer has to change attitudes. That's the last thing I want to send from this room today, and that's one of the same things I was in the round of questions. In fact, this is the tool to be able to take the lead in being a normative and an example, in this case in the country’s own employer policy. I want to make it clear from this platform that there must also be a shift of gear, because here we can actually organize our own house – not because it is not good, but because it can be even better in this area as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e3397	Let me just underline again once again what this is all about. It's not if you're going to have the right to quit work. The right to stop working is defined by completely different laws. What we're talking about here is whether the employer should have a separate provision in the Working Environment Act that gives him the right to cancel people once you have reached a certain age. As I said, the Progress Party believes that this is wrong. So until that council has taken up, and to the principle around it. Shouldn't you have just removed the age limits, and shouldn't the Progress Party have stood for it? Yes, that is what the Progress Party has been for all these years, and on which we have put forward proposals. In my naivety, I have listened to the other political parties in Stortinget, who have said that it has been out of date, but that the age limit should be harmonised with the pension reform and set at 75 years. I have thought in my naivety that the other parties on the Stortinget meant what they have said. Then I – and the Progress Party – thought that we should be constructive and approachable, and at least we should come forward with a proposal that harmonises with the pension reform and set the limit to 75 years, so that we can have a cross-political consensus in the Storting on such a proposal. When that proposal is promoted, all the other parties oppose the proposals of the Progress Party and instead ask for a committee to be set up to assess matters further. I think it is disappointing, and I think it is sad that we have not come any further in this matter, after a debate that has been going on for almost eight years. So to the representative of Gullvåg: I can't quite understand his attempts at kicking and where he tries to kick – whether it's in the loose air or whether it's against me. At least I don't know any of the kicks, so it is possible that he has bombed. But what I think is alarming is that at the same time you stand on this pulpit and are one of the most intense speakers – a representative from the Workers' Party – for a special provision, a separate legal right for employers to cancel people without justification when they turn 70. It does not reflect good employee policies and policies that are concerned with employees. So, finally, to the council, which says she's been listening to employers. She could not mention anyone other than the NHO. I can understand NHO's reasoning from just their point of view and their point of view. However, as a former employer who has employed more than 56 people, I share the concern of the Council of State that there are so few who are hired after they are 56 years old. I myself have been an employer and an employee for more than 56 years, so I hoped that the Council of State could have listened more to a previous employer than she has done in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e3408	I'm sorry to disappoint the representative. I must admit that I am listening more to the NHO than to the Progress Party on these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e3413	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e3419	It seems that we are then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e3427	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No 1, by the representative Jette F. Christensen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and himself proposal No. 2, from Borghild Tenden on behalf of Left There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the representative Jette F. Christensen and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for different options for the introduction of the Republic as a form of government in Norway. Assessments of the different options, and proposals on the main points of a republican governance, are submitted to the Grand Duchy in good time before the Grand Duchy's proceedings for the next parliamentary term of constitutional proposals for the introduction of the Republic, at the latest by the end of 2014.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e3451	There is a vote on proposal No. Two, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 8:151 S [[2011-2012]] Those who supported the proposal now adopted, i.e. proposal No. 1 has indicated that they subsidly support the Left's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e3472	The left has announced that they will now subsidize the suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e3485	Was there anyone who stuttered? Is there anyone who thinks they have voted wrong? There is one non-registered representative? Then we take the vote again so that everyone is registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e3565	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Jon Jäger Gåsvatn on behalf of the Advance Party, the Right and Christian People's Party and the proposals No. 2 and 3, from Borghild Tenden on behalf of the Left. First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. Two and three. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government requests the implementation of pilot projects during the follow-up to the Report. St. 9 One contains - one journal, where in the first place only the core file is shared across the health and care sectors, including drug use and drug allergies.» [[2012-2013]] [[critical information about the patient]] Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The size asks the government to clarify and present to the Stortinget what is meant by ‘relevant information’ before one national journal is implemented.’ The voting boards showed that 91 votes were cast against and 2 votes in favour of the Left's proposals. [[Printed catalogue 20.31.43]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e3593	Was the Hill-Jensen speaking?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e3596	Yes! I'm not registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e3601	Then I ask that it be corrected in the Minutes that Frank Bakke-Jensen be registered with a voice that is probably – will the President suspect – should be opposed?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e3604	I have to go with the people.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e3609	The proposals from the Left were not accepted by 92 votes to one. So let's do it that way. There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a proposal for the Storting to deal with the follow-up and implementation of the work and the objectives described in the Report. St. 9 One resident – one journal.’» [[2012-2013]] The left has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e3680	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the law allows the smoking and use of other tobacco products in places where there is no problem for others.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e3697	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the right. Proposal No. 3 sounds: «In Law No. 9 March 1973 No. 14 on protection against tobacco damage, point (d) of the second paragraph of Section 25 shall be replaced by the following: The smoke-free premises must not be less or less standard-compliant than premises where smoking is permitted. The voting boards showed that 57 votes were cast against and 37 votes in favour of the proposal from the Right. [[Printed catalogue 20.34.05]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e3717	I have to vote for the Right all the way. When I vote against it, it is nevertheless registered as for.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e3722	There should be an opportunity for the representative of Langeland to vote against the Right-wing proposal. If it's a system error, I don't know, but I suggest we take the vote again, and then we'll see if it works then, otherwise we'll have to sort out Langeland's votes manually and adjust the protocol. Let's do the voting again. There is a vote on proposal No. 3. from the Right, and the Progress Party has announced that they will support the proposal. The voting boards showed that there were 56 votes against and 38 votes in favour of the proposal from the Right. [[Printed catalogue 20.35.08]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e3731	I voted in favour, but I voted against.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e3736	Then we register 57 against and 37 for and correct Langeland's vote in the minutes afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e3739	I still have the same problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e3744	Then we're going to take care of it when it keeps going. We can manually correct the protocol if the problem continues in one place in the hall. So it was 58 who voted against, and it was 36 who voted for the right thing to do: 57 who voted against, and 36 who voted for it. Now that's right. Then it's going to be okay. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e3747	I hope the problem doesn't continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e3752	We're going to take care of it if it keeps going. We can manually correct the protocol if the problem continues in one place in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e4523	It is contested by I, § 1, §§ 4–16, § 23, § 27, § 28, § 33 and § 34. The Advance Party and the Right have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e4538	Langeland, is that all right?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e4541	No, it's okay.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e4546	We're going to try to keep track of Langeland's various positions beyond the evening! The rest of I and II are voted on. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e4562	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e4576	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e4584	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Bent Höie on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 2 reads: ‘In the context of the 2013 revised national budget, the government asks for proposals to transfer Abiraterone from individual reimbursement to general reimbursement in the BIP.’ The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e4609	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government is asked to draw up a pharmaceutical notification with a new, comprehensive review of the entire pharmaceutical policy.» The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Left have announced that they now support the proposal of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party, and then it must be expected that the proposal will be adopted unanimously. We still have to use the watering system – the setting has to be treated – but we expect everyone to vote against it. Those who still, against all assumption, would want to vote for the setting, use the for-button, those who vote for the proposal, use the counter-button and stand up. The voting boards showed that 92 votes were cast for the proposal and 2 votes for the vote. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 20.39.28]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e4625	So, despite relatively clear guidance, there are two people who have chosen to vote for the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e4628	I'm one of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e4633	Then we're up to 93 for the proposal and 1 for the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e4636	Me, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e4641	Then it is 94 who have voted in favour of the proposal and no one has voted in favour of it. The proposal of the Progressive Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party has thus been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e4649	In the course of the debate, a total of ten proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Morten Stordalen on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 3, from Morten Stordalen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 4-10, from Line Henriette Hemdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4-8, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: «The government is asking the government to draw up quality requirements for outlying areas of schools and kindergartens, both in terms of size and content.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure the enhanced competence of health professionals in the relationship between physical activity and health to provide them with the necessary tools to use physical activity in treatment and guidance.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up an action plan for the rehabilitation and reconstruction of swimming facilities.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to introduce a 4th stage national skill test in primary school that all pupils must pass before swimming training can be completed.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to increase the commitment to outdoor activities, open air areas and archipelago parks in the annual government budgets and to review the key to increase support for outdoor life.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e4701	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 9 and 10, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals in the context of the revised state budget in the spring of 2013 to establish a state reward scheme for routes and bicycles, while reviewing traffic and cancellation obligations rules with a view to improving the safety and promotion of cyclists and pedestrians.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking for more active use of the tax system to achieve health policy objectives, by proposing to increase taxes on tobacco, alcohol, sugars and fats, and reducing taxes on healthy alternatives such as fruit and vegetables.’ The left has announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e4726	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests the introduction of an hour of physical activity each day at all stages of primary and secondary school within today’s hours’.» The left has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e4745	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Party of Prosperity, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a new physical activity plan.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the extension and improvement of the green prescription regime so that more lifestyle diseases can be prevented and treated with lifestyle changes and patient follow-up.’ The left has announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e4781	In Case No. 10 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e4806	During the debate, Mr Giltun put forward a proposal on behalf of the Advance Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to carry out during the spring of 2013 an investigation that makes benefits and disadvantages visible by ratifying the Additional Protocol on the right of appeal to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e4870	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e4880	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e4895	The Progress Party has announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e4912	A total of four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1-3, by Robert Eriksson on behalf of the Progress Party. proposal No 4, from Torbjørn Røe Isaksen on behalf of the Right Party and the Christian People's Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 4 from the Right and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner with a review of how data protection is sought in the Nav system with a particular focus on the dissemination of and access to stored information about the individual.’ The Progress Party and the Left have announced their support for the proposal. The vote boards showed that 49 votes were cast against and 45 votes in favour. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 20.44.32]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e4936	We voted against 50.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e4941	So it's going to be 50 who voted against the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e4944	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1-3 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to consider introducing a quarantine period in cases where it is evident that there has been organised social security fraud and in cases where there is a robust judgment that serious social security abuse has occurred. It is requested that the government return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with its own case on how to establish and organise a separate entity consisting of Nav, the tax administration and the police. This unit must be given the task of detecting organised social-security abuse, using the same model as one has in other areas in order to detect crimes that have not been reported.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to return to Stortinget by the end of June 2013 with the necessary legislative changes allowing Nav to release them from the obligation of professional secrecy, so that they can exchange information with the police on persons seeking social benefits from Nav and where it is quite evident that they are residing illegally in the country.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e5067	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e5077	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e5107	During the debate, Robert Eriksson put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals during the spring of 2013 for amendments to the Working Environment Act that allow workers to work at the age of 75.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The left has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-19.ana.ud419e5142	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
