ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-14.ana.ud822e22	The representatives Jørund Rytman and Ingrid Heggo, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The President shall notify that the election of members and alternates to the Electoral Committee, which was held at the Constituent Meeting of Storting on Tuesday 8 October 2013, resulted in the election of all proposed members and alternates by 166 votes. The President will subsequently convene the Electoral Committee for its first meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-14.ana.ud822e130	The representative, Lise Christoffersen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-14.ana.ud822e133	It is important that we avoid a lot of big things at the beginning of this big deal, so on behalf of the big business representatives Martin Kolberg, Torgeir Micaelsen and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a new regulation on flagging in municipal public buildings, on flag rods. To excite the curiosity a little bit: this is about top football, and then we can get back to it again later.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-14.ana.ud822e138	We're definitely doing that, and we're all looking forward to doing the most important thing first. The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-14.ana.ud822e158	The Norwegian economy is in good condition. We have Europe's lowest leave. Growth is higher than in the countries around us, and professional participation is high. Government finances are strong, and our banks become more solid. We live in a country characterized by justice and diversity. Around us we see a Europe that is still marked by an economic crisis. National debt reaches new, high levels, and in many countries economic activity remains lower than in 2008. Nearly 27 million people are now unemployed in Europe. Behind the numbers there are people who have lost security and had their lives turned down. Savings and high levels of unemployment will shape Europe for many years to come. Over the past four years, I have visited several countries in Europe and met people who know the downfall of the body. Most notably, the youth-unemployed meetings have been — young people who have told me that it is difficult to have hope and dreams about the future, that they have lost confidence in politicians and important institutions in society. To preserve dignity and humanity, people must have the opportunity to have dreams about the future. That is at the heart of economic policy, and that is what policy should be about. It must build trust and secure frameworks around people's lives. Therefore, the great project will always be work, well-being and justice – that we will deliver according to ability and get as needed, that the values we will share must be created. In this context, nothing is more important than the outcome of joint work. The State budget for 2014 is a budget for work, value creation, well-being and freedom. The budget is about more than appropriations and individual items. It's about the everyday people meet in kindergarten, at school and at work, about the hospital and hospital meeting when they fail, about facilitating everyone's participation in the world of work. It is about climate, poverty and the major global challenges, about our responsibility for future generations. Economic policy is about people's lives. This state budget has been created at a time when we are facing important economic choices. The evolution of the mainland economy generates good growth in the income of the community. In addition, oil revenues give us the freedom of action of a few other countries. Oil and gas revenues are high for a period now, but will gradually decrease. The ageing of the population will gradually present us with major challenges in public budgets. The country's obligations to future pensioners rise markedly. The freedom of trade we have today must therefore be managed wisely, and then we must not overlook the good results of the mainland economy. In 2001, we got the rule of action. It helps us to distinguish the use of oil revenues from the annual oil revenues. This allows us to gradually use more, but at the same time save on pensions and care in the future. This is how we do not send large bills to those who come after us. The draft State budget for 2014 is well adapted to the situation in the Norwegian economy. The phase-in of income from the Pension Fund continues at the same rate as it has done in the last decade. The use of oil revenues is well below the expected return of 4 pst. by the fund. Money spending beyond our publishers will increase the pressure on competitive industries and financial stability. It will reduce the scope for action to face economic setbacks and eat the income of future generations. A shift in pace during the phase-in phase would have broken with a responsible line, which is to build up during a stable development in the Norwegian economy. The 2014 budget also helps us to have reservations about meeting unforeseen events in the future. The beneficial development we've had can quickly turn around. Much of what affects the Norwegian economy, we can control ourselves to a small or no extent. This concerns the prices of important goods that we sell to the rest of the world, and the return on our common savings. This concerns developments in international financial markets and in important markets for Norwegian exports. What we can do is we can keep order in our own house. It is our main defence against economic unrest, and then we have to put up with the policy. We then provide the basis for confidence in Norway and in the Norwegian economy. Building trust takes time, but it can disappear overnight. The state budget tells of a country with a strong economy, order in government finances and money on book. I have also presented the state budget in times when the situation was quite different. About 20 years ago, the Norwegian economy was in great difficulty. The availability was high, and we had a deficit in the state budget even after the oil revenues were calculated. It was not unusual to pay 15 pst. interest on residential loans. Housing prices had fallen dramatically in a short time, the banks were about to end, and thousands of people had ended up in a debt crisis. The oil fund, which was established in 1990, had so far not received a single penny in the account. The crisis in the late 1980s and early 1990s had a major impact on the economy, on businesses and on individuals. At the same time, we learned something about how to prevent similar crises, and I want to mention three such lessons. Firstly, it is about the ability to handle large and temporary revenues without ruining the future. The oil industry offers Norway great opportunities. Oil and gas revenues are high, but short-lived, and they vary considerably from year to year. For the rapid use of such revenues, there is short-term joy. Afterwards, demanding adjustments to the economy occur when revenue falls. We have to avoid that. We also need to ensure that income from non-renewable resources benefits the entire population – including our children and grandchildren. In the 1980s, oil revenues were largely gradually introduced into the economy. There was great vulnerability when times changed, oil prices fell and interest rates in Norway rose to a high level. Today, the rule of action and the State pension fund provide us with a better basis for solving such challenges. The revenue from oil and gas is entirely set on the book of the State pension fund abroad. From year to year, we can use the expected return on interest from the fund, but so that we take into account the situation in the Norwegian economy. This way of spending oil money has served Norway well, and it has been noted internationally. The rule of action contributes to a stable development of the Norwegian economy and a high level of confidence in Norwegian economic policy. A country with a lot of money must have politicians as the ability to set limits on themselves. Even we cannot afford everything every time new demands, problems and challenges are raised. All bills must be paid, either today or in the years to come. So we have to be open about how much money we spend. It is not possible to book away from the expenses. We must have the courage and the ability to give priority to what is most important in the context of responsible budgetary frameworks. The second lesson from the 1990s crisis is the need to have sound banks and good public regulation of the financial market. The banks and financial markets shall perform important societal tasks such as conveying payments, loans and savings. They shall also redistribute risk. These tasks must be kept in a good way both when it goes up and when it goes down. In the 1980s, loans increased sharply. The banker's handicraft was destroyed. Regulation and supervision failed. Debt and housing prices increased rapidly, but development was not sustainable. When the arrows pointed downwards, the banks got big problems. Businesses and people most were hit. Banks that get into trouble can cost society dearly. When the banks fail, we see it again in production and employment. We get a bad circle. In 1991, the state had to save the banks to prevent them from going to an end. The financial crisis has reminded us of lessons from our own home history. The banking sector in Norway is much better now than in the 1980s. We must continue to work for solid banks and build reserves in good times. Nor shall there be any doubt as to the bank's own responsibility for its social tasks. We must not just learn from history, we must transform learning into good economic policy and good conduct. The third lesson from the crisis is our ability to cooperate. In 1995, I was asked to give a talk to my colleagues in the European Union. I was going to talk about income policy cooperation and how we used this to get back to the Norwegian economy. We called this cooperation in the 1990s ‘solidarity option’. When I finished, I got the following heart attack from my Dutch colleague: «Mr. Minister, you must be talking about paradise.» Cooperation between the social partners has also served Norway well. It's central to the Norwegian model. There is a long line from the workshop agreement in 1907, through the “basic law” of the labour force – the main agreement of 1935 – until today. It is this as the ‘layer sound’ in the Norwegian welfare model. We need to safeguard and strengthen income policy cooperation and the role of competitive enterprises in wage-setting. Even after the fall in the value of the last crown, the level of costs in Norway is much higher than in our trading partners. If prices of Norwegian exports were to fall, it would require the best cooperation to bring costs down to a sustainable level. Many might say that it is the oil and the large natural resources that have made Norway strong, but what really makes Norway strong is our ability to cooperate and work together. We've become strong because we're doing the big problems together, rather than each of us. We're building this country together. What happened during our own economic crisis, and what is happening around us in Europe today, has done and makes a strong and lasting impression. We have to take the lessons with us to cope with new crises. Creating a secure economic environment around people's lives is – as I have said – one of the most important tasks for politics. It's been five years since the international financial crisis broke out. It has had very serious effects. While financial markets have improved, developments in production and employment are lagging behind, particularly in Europe. The euro area unemployment rate is 12 p.m. Fortunately, there are signs that developments may be turning around. Unemployment has stopped increasing, and there are prospects that the euro area will be able to generate new growth in its activity in 2014. But the crisis is not over until unemployment goes down and employment rises. In the United States, we also see an improvement. Production is on the way up, and unemployment is falling. But tight fiscal policies help to dampen growth, and the disagreement we now see in Congress creates great uncertainty about the way forward. In China and more emerging economies, growth is still much stronger than in traditional industrialised countries. However, growth is lower than what we have seen in recent years. A setback in these countries may have a significant impact on the price of oil and other important products exported by Norway. Overall, there is a slight growth in the production of Norway’s trading partners in 2013, but slightly closer to normal next year. The situation is more robust than in several years, although there is still a risk of a weaker development. The situation in the Norwegian economy is clearly different from that of our trading partners. The Norwegian economy is growing this year and next year as the average for the last 40 years. The increase in housing prices and indebtedness has fallen from high levels. Employment continues to grow. The availability is clearly below the historical average. High employment and low unemployment are one of the most important signs that things are going well in our country. The prices of many of our main export products are still high and contribute to a historically good trading relationship with the rest of the world. Economic policy has contributed to the good results of the Norwegian economy. Financial policy provides a sustainable use of oil revenues. The interest rate is used to keep inflation low and stable and is our first line of defence against fluctuations in production and employment. Income policy and work on financial stability are also important. This is a framework we can be proud of. Strong wage growth over several years has given us good prosperity, but also a high cost level. It's a big common challenge. The cost level makes us vulnerable, especially if we have a significant fall in the oil price. In the last year, we have seen more examples of Norwegian companies losing for foreign competitors in the battle for jobs. Housing prices and household liabilities have risen to a high level. The situation suggests that we need to be cautious about the use of oil revenues in 2014. The proposal for a State budget involves the phasing-in of funds from the Pension Fund into the Norwegian economy in line with the average of the years during which the action rule has worked. The use of oil money in 2014 will correspond to 2.9 pst. by the capital of the State pension fund abroad. It's at the same level as in 2011, but slightly lower than in the last two years. In dollars, this implies a use of oil revenue of 135 billion. kr. That's $54. kr below the track for 4 pst. the expected return from the fund. This must be the case when the growth of the Norwegian economy is close to normal, while the capital of the fund is rising rapidly. After this government took over in the autumn of 2005, it is only in 2009 that the use of funds from the fund has been higher than the expected return of 4 pst., as we now estimate the figures. The high use of oil revenues in 2009 was due to strong measures against the financial crisis to mitigate the impact on production, employment and unemployment. There have been many good news in recent years: the underlying tax revenue has increased. Some expenditure has been lower than budgeted. The pension fund has increased sharply due to good returns and high oil and gas prices. In 2013, a weaker krone has also contributed to increasing the fund value in Norwegian kroner. However, a weaker dollar price does not increase the international purchasing power of the fund. The future is uncertain. The good development we've had in recent years can quickly turn around. Therefore, it is important that we build reserves in order to meet bad times. Other countries have found that the budget could be severely weakened by a setback. The distance of the 4 pst. path is not very large in this context. Within the framework of a responsible economic policy, we continue to invest in the major tasks. We strengthen Community solutions in the areas of health, care and knowledge. We take a power cap for transportation and facilitate value creation across the country. Through strong commitment to education and research, we invest in our future workforce. A strong community economy is a prerequisite for a good welfare offer for Norwegian citizens. Kindergartens, schools, health services, care and child protection are important welfare goods for which municipalities are responsible. For 2014, we are adding to a real growth in the total income of the local government sector of 7.7 billion. kr. Of these, 5.2 billion is. kr so-called free income. Sickness and the need for care, we will all meet. We're going to need the security that a good health and care service can provide. We'll add about 2 billion to the health care companies. kr extra for patient treatment in 2014. This allows patient treatment to be increased by up to 2.3 pst. Next year. Elder care must be adapted to the needs of the individual. Since 2005, municipalities have been strengthened by more than 24 000 annual works of care. The 2014 budget provides for the provision of grants to 2000 lucky day care places. All children need community care in addition to the responsibility we have as parents. The kindergartens have been given a strong boost during this government. 62,000 more children have been accommodated in kindergarten since 2005, and 98 pst. children are now experienced in kindergarten before school starts. The bet continues next year with escalating towards two kindergarten admissions per year and a further reduction in parental pay. The price of a nursery is actually reduced by 35 pst. Since 2005, and we reach the goal of payment for nursery facilities that we set ourselves in 2005. Some children need community care more than others. We therefore continue to strengthen child protection at both municipal and state level. All children have the right to grow up in a safe environment. In the field of transport, we have had a change of pace in the development since 2005, and in this budget we are stepping up further. Since 2005, road and rail appropriations have actually increased by about 20 billion. kr per year, if we include the proposals for 2014. It's equivalent to a real growth of 90 pst. We have more than met the national transport plan framework. The bet has produced great results. Since 2005, approximately 1000 km of national road and approximately 100 km of rail will be opened, under construction or under construction. Roads have become safer, and the number of fatalities in traffic is falling. The government continues to invest in knowledge, including: with a total appropriation for research and development of 29 billion. kr. From 2005 this gives a total real growth of 34 pst. Norway is one of the OECD countries with the highest research effort per capita funded by public funds. We are strengthening the work of social security and preparedness. We continue our commitment to the environment and climate. We have raised the aid to 1 pst. of national income and continues this high level also in 2014. We're fulfilling the cultural promise, and we're continuing to renew state services and simplify business. Norway has a well-functioning tax system that brings in more than 1200 billion. kr to the community. The broad and correct tax base is the backbone of the tax system. New tax deduction schemes will weaken this base. The tax system promotes redistribution, equal treatment and growth in the economy. Taxes and charges shall also contribute to fair distribution and better environment. In the 2014 tax package, taxes are kept at 2004 level, in line with the tax promise. At the same time, we are continuing to work for a better and fairer tax system. The government follows up the growth package for business, which was announced in the spring, by reducing the tax rate for companies and personal business. The measure will improve competitiveness, promote profitability and strengthen investment in continental holdings. In order to make the Norwegian tax base more robust, restrictions on the deduction of interest on debt between related companies are introduced, and this reduces, inter alia. the possibility of tax planning for multinational companies. Climate change is one of the greatest challenges of our time. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change estimates in its report that it is 95 pst. the likelihood of human activity affecting the climate on earth. The government has led an active climate policy at home and out. Greenhouse gas emissions in Norway are now falling. In some areas, the results are particularly strong. Emissions from new cars have been reduced by 30 pst. since 2005. In this budget, we are further raising climate policy. We're strengthening the climate fund. We're increasing more CO2 charges. The car charges are modified so that they pay even more attention to the environment. We continue to work to improve taxes on wealth and make it fairer. Since 2005, the valuation of, among others: housing changed so that the tax base is wider and more in line with market values. Persons with the largest assets must pay a greater proportion of the property tax than before. At the same time, they are protected with the lowest wealth. We have increased the asset tax base from NOK 151 000 in 2005 to SEK 1 million. kr in the proposal for 2014. With this, the proportion of taxes that pay taxes on wealth will be more than half since 2005. We also improve the inheritance fee. The amount of the inheritance fee was NOK 250 000 in 2005. We increased the amount of free money in 2009 and we propose that it be further increased in 2014 to 1 million. kr. At the same time, we simplify the rates. The 2014 proposal means that two out of three who would previously pay the inheritance tax will now be exempt from this fee. Our ability to keep people in work is the most important foundation of the welfare society. It's worth working. Several changes in the tax and social security system have supported the working line in recent years. The government is now proposing to tax the transitional benefit for lone dependants as wages and to remove tax class 2 for married couples. The proposals will strengthen the line of work and contribute to gender equality and integration. We must have financial markets that function well, that promote soundness, liquidity and good behaviour in banks. We translate the lessons of the financial crisis and our own history into good economic policy. Changes in the laws on new and progressively higher capital requirements for Norwegian banks entered into force on 1 July this year. Rules for the so-called countercyclical capital buffer scheme were laid down on 4 October this year. Such a buffer shall prevent bank lending practices from increasing fluctuations in the economy. Norway’s Bank will advise on the level of countercyclical buffer when the next monetary policy report is presented in December. Yesterday, the Ministry of Finance laid down rules for the calculation of risk weights on mortgages for banks. Solid banks are also concerned with security – security for loans and security for savings. Regulations are about preventing new crises. Good and robust legislation is a competitive advantage for banking, especially in times of recession. More solid banks receive lower borrowing costs and lower returns on equity. This will serve both banks' owners and banks' customers, as well as Norwegian economy. The uncertainty and uncertainty that we had in the early 1990s, I don't think anyone will experience again. The government can show good results in the Norwegian economy in recent years. Never before have so many people been working. More than 350 000 new jobs have been created since 2005, most of them in business. Unemployment is lower than in some EU countries and well below our own average for the past 25 years. We've been driving the Norwegian economy safely through the greatest setback since World War II. While many countries are struggling, production in our mainland economy is well above the level in 2008. The growth since 2005 is 20 pst. Norway is not only one of the richest, but also among the same countries in the world. High employment, low unemployment and small pay differentials are important reasons why income is evenly distributed. Like many other countries, Norway has tended to increase income inequality in recent decades. With us, this trend stopped in the period after 2005. The differences are also small because we choose to solve the big problems together. This applies not least to social security, health, care, school and kindergartens. The government has strengthened and developed Community solutions. Norway is in every way a good country to live in. That's why we don't have to be ourselves enough, but the ability to put our situation into a larger context. Economic policy is also about investing in the future. The government has given priority to strengthening the growth power of the Norwegian economy. We have invested in road, rail, construction and equipment. We have invested in our most important resource – the labour force – by strengthening education, research and good health care. We must take care of these good results for the Norwegian economy. It demands the political choices we make today and in the years to come. In 1946, more children were born in Norway than any other year in our history — for understandable reasons. Birth rates were particularly high in the early years of the war, but remained well above the 1950s and 1960s. We who were born in these years have experienced a journey of wealth without parallel in Norwegian and international history. We have so infinitely much to be grateful for. The gratitude we have to carry with us in what we do to make the next and next generations feel the same way. That's what this is about. From this year on, the growth of older people over 67 years of age is really starting. The number of older people will double in the next decades. Life expectancy is increasing rapidly, thanks to better health and medical progress. This is a clear sign that Norway is a good country to live in. Older people are valuable and have a lot to offer in many areas – experience, knowledge and a willingness to contribute that we will need in the years to come. Those who have laid the foundation for the society we have today are also going to have a good old age, as they also contributed to their parents getting a good old age. The contract between generations is to set one another up through the course of life. This community is the backbone of well-being. The ageing of the population means that there are more people who need the welfare of society. In the perspective communication presented by the government this winter, we showed that public finances will face major challenges in the future. The revenue from oil and gas helps us a lot on the way, but that's not enough. To meet the challenge, we need to work more together and keep saving up. The age group I belong to has come out well. In the future, pensioners will have stronger political influence, simply because there are more of us. But we have little to do with a conflict between the older and younger generations about how to pay for the welfare of the future. We must meet the challenges together and divide the burdens and obligations between generations. This is the main reason why policy today must have a longer perspective than the next year and elections. If we are to succeed, we must manage the oil wealth in a long-term way. Through the rule of action, we have built a solid foundation for the governance of the ‘large’ economy. We need to strengthen and maintain this base wall – do not tear it down. If we are to succeed, low unemployment and high participation in the world of work must be our main objectives. It is not money and machine resources that are the most important restrictions on progress, but that we have enough labour and good enough labour. Less than half of Norwegian women participated in paid employment early in the 1970s. In a few decades, the proportion of women in employment has increased to nearly 70 pst. It has given women greater opportunities in society and greater autonomy. It's raised the revenue. We have managed to create a better distribution of rights and obligations between women and men. We've become a more equal and better society. Work for all is a fundamental element of economic policy. Work provides security. Work gives each individual financial autonomy. Nothing is more powerful to fight differences and create an inclusive society than to get people to work. Work effort is also the basis of the welfare society. That's why we have to have a work life that makes it possible to participate as much as possible. When more people are at work, we all get richer. It's about creating economic opportunities together and building common values. The community machine is a puzzle of all the little wheels that run the big. That's why it's so important that we see each other, and that we appreciate all those who make this country work together – that we sing the songs about people's lives and not just take their efforts for granted. His Børli says it like this: ‘You in Dongery, You guys, I'll sing about. You with the great patience And hands that were hard of heavy roofs. You who go out into the pot, You guys, I'll sing about. You who build in concrete and attracts grain bogs out of soil magazine for millennia. Those of you who solve the horsepowers of the machines, felling trees in the forests; ploughs the seas ploughmark with blinking bowers steel. You with the other names, You guys, I'll sing about. You with the hard handshake, [[...]] You guys, I'll sing about. Believe me, brothers. [[...]] My dearest song, my warmest thought I'll give you." Policy is in many ways a ‘equity machine’. Policy never comes to an end, and we'll never end up with politics. The simple solutions are often only available in terms of speech. Society does not stand still – it changes because needs change, and because people change. When a queue goes out, another one comes. When some requirements are met, there are new requirements. That's how we built the country in the past. We've never finished, and we'll never finish. Each generation has its challenges, and we need to find solutions together. Our main task will be to facilitate their choices – according to their wishes, needs and goals. Norway is a rich country because we have put the emphasis on becoming rich together, not each one of us. Norway is also a country where we trust each other and trust between people is high. Who you are, and where you come from, means far less for what you become than in most other countries we compare with. Prosperity, well-being and values are closely linked. It's about fair distribution, about rights and obligations, about building bridges between people and cultures. It's about community. It is about the economic, ecological and human basis of life. Community gives security, and it gives us great freedom. This isn't an old-fashioned thought, but it's an idea that carries over time and between generations. Economic policy is about the long lines and not just about the size of next year's appropriations. Chapters and items on the State budget, appropriations and taxes – yes, the rule of action itself – are not the goal. There are tools to reach your goal. For me, politics is about security, trust and humanity – about respect for each other and about the dignity of people, about the ability to take care of each other across generations and that we are there for each other – that we are the necessity of each other. These are human values we're going to build on. Building values is something more and something other than building wealth. We don't just need money on a book. We also need values on the book.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-14.ana.ud822e373	So true, so true. We're going to have values on the book. The President will propose that the Minister of Finance's statement on the government's draft government budget and on the national budget for 2014 be discussed at a later meeting. No objections have been raised to this proposal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-14.ana.ud822e407	Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg has asked for the floor to give the Stortinget a message.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-14.ana.ud822e410	The election of 9 September and the subsequent agreement between the Left, the Christian People's Party, the Party of Progress and the Right resulted in the existence of a parliamentary basis for a new government consisting of the Right and the Advance Party. I would therefore like to present today, in the Council of State, a request for a waiver to the government. I would advise His Majesty the King to turn to the leader of the Right, Erna Solberg, as she is a prime minister candidate for the Right and the Advance Party, who is prepared to form government together.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-14.ana.ud822e417	The President would like to thank the Prime Minister for his communication. Then, before the meeting is cancelled, the President will request the consent of the Storting to derogate from the third paragraph of Paragraph 35 of the Stortinge Rules of Procedure, so that he is authorised to make the necessary changes to the programme for the current week which may result from the forthcoming government change. No objections have been raised to this. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
